Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16794
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2093-MAU)
June 26, 1997
Technical Agriculture 3
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
UM per US dollar
1989   =  83 UM   1993  =  121 UM
1990   =  81 UM    1994  =  124 UM
1991   =  82 UM    1995  =  130 UM
1992   =  87 UM    1996  =  137 UM
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAIP        Agricultural Sector Adjustment and Investment Project
ASP          Agricultural Services Project
CCCE         Caisse centrale de cooperation dconomique (French Aid Loan Agency)
CFD          Caissefrancaise de developpement
CNRADA    Centre national de recherches agricoles (National Agricultural Research Center)
GSA          Commisariat pour la securiti alimentaire (National Agency for Food Security)
MRD          Ministry of Rural Development
MRDE         Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
MTSA         Medium-Term Sector Adjustment Program for Agriculture
PCR          Programme de consolidation et de relance (2nd Structural Adjustment Program 1989-9 i
PDIAIM       Programme de developpment integre de l 'agriculture irriguee en Mauritanie (Integrated
Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania)
PREF         Programme de redressement economique etfinancier (Ist Structural Adj. Program 1985-
88)
PU           Planning Unit of MRDE
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
SONADER   Societe nationale pour le developpement rural (National Agency for Rural Development)
SONIMEX    Societe nationale d'import-export (Import-Export Agency)
UBD          Union des banques de developpement (Development Bank Union)
UCAF         Union des cooperatives agricoles de Foum Gleita (Union of F.G. Agricultural
Cooperatives)
UNCACEM   Union nationale des cooperatives agricoles de credit et d 'epargne de Mauritanie (National
Agricultural Credit and Saving Union)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
WFP          United Nations World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice-President   : Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director   : Hasan Tuluy
Technical Director   : Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Manager   : Abdelkrim Oka



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2093-MAU)
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE ......................................................................                                                                                                         j
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................................ii
PART 1: PROJECT EVALUATION ....................................................................... I
INTRODUCTION  .................................                                ........................................................................... I
A.   PROJECT  OBJECTIVES  ...................................................................... I
B. I ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES: ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT .......................................................... 3
B.2 ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES: INVESTMENT COMPONENT .......................................................... 9
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ......................................................................0 I 
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................................                                                                       II
E.   BANK  PERFORMANCE ....................................................................... I I
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................................................... 11
G. ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS .......................................................................11
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................... 12
I.  FTURE OPERATIONS ......................................................................                                                                           13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ......................................................................                                                                                  14
TABLE 1:  EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................................                                                                  14
TABLE  2:            WORLD  BANK  LOANS/IDA   CREDITS .......................................................................                                       .16
TABLE 3:  PROJECT CALENDAR ......................................................................1  7
TABLE 4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS - ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................................................. 17
TABLE 5 A: KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT ..1.  8
TABLE 5 B: KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, INVESTMENT COMPONENT  ... 20
TABLE 6:   KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT OPERATION ................................................................... 20
TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT ......................................................................                                                       21
TABLE 8 A: PROJECT COSTS .......................................................................                                                                     23
TABLE 8 B: PROJECT FINANCING ......................................................................                                                                  23
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ......................................................................                                                         24
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ......................................................................                                                           25
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .......................................... 30
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS .......................................................................                                                       30
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS ......................................................................                                                            31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendices:   A.    Mission's aide-memoire
B.    Resume of Borrower's contribution
C.    Borrower's contribution (in French)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2093-MAU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment and Investment Project (ASAIP) in Mauritania for which Credit 2093-MAU, in an
amount of SDR 19.4 million (equivalent to US$ 25 million), was approved on February 13, 1990
and made effective on April 27, 1990. The adjustment component represented SDR 14 million
and the investment component SDR 5.4 million.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1996, one year after the original closing date of
December 31, 1995. The first tranche of SDR 7 million for the adjustment component, released
on May 4, 1990, was fully disbursed by May 8, 1990. The second tranche, also of SDR 7
million, was released on May 25, 1994. Final disbursement for the investment component took
place on May 8, 1997, at which time a balance of SDR 20,203.47 was canceled. Cofinancing for
the project was provided by France in the amount of US$ 8 million, the Federal Republic of
Germany in the amount of US$ 2.0 million, and the World Food Program (WFP) in the amount
of US$ 1.0 million. Government contribution was equivalent to US$1.0 million.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Abdelkrim Oka (Task Manager, AFTA3), assisted by Ms.
Annick Lachance (Consultant) and Messrs. Mohamed Tolba (Agronomist, Mauritania Resident
Mission) and William Cooper (Consultant). The report was reviewed by Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse
(Technical Director, AFTA3) and by Mr. Hasan Tuluy (Country Director, AFC15). Ms. Andrea
Vasquez (Staff Assistant, AFTA3) provided support in the processing of the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the IDA's final supervision mission held in
April 1997. The report is based on material available in the project file and on consultations
with previous task managers and Bank staff involved in the project's preparation and
implementation. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR in working sessions
held during the final supervision mission and prepared its evaluation of the project's
implementation and impact, which is appended to the ICR. Some cofinanciers provided
comments which are reflected in the ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2093-MAU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Agricultural Sector Adjustment and Investment Project (ASAIP) in Mauritania, IDA
Credit 2093-MAU for SDR 19.4 million, was approved on February 13, 1990 and made effective
on April 27, 1990. It was the first agricultural sector adjustment project financed by IDA in
Mauritania. Earlier IDA-financed projects in the agricultural sector addressed institutional
strengthening, small-scale irrigation, environmental protection, and livestock development. A
hybrid project, with adjustment (US$ 18 million) and investment (US$ 7 million) components,
the project's design was consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy and other IDA-
financed macro-economic and sectoral adjustment being pursued at the time.
Project Objectives
2.    Adjustment and investment components were designed to complement each other. The
adjustment component was to support implementation of the Government's Medium-Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment program (MTSA, 1988) which had three major objectives: (i) to
improve incentives to farmers and private investors; (ii) to increase the effectiveness of the
public sector (Ministry for Rural Development (MRD) and SONADER, the national rural
development agency) and improve programming and monitoring of sector investments; and (iii)
to identify development techniques and institutional arrangements conducive to a less drought-
vulnerable livestock sector and more sustainable desertification control. The objectives of the
investment component were to test new irrigation techniques and strengthen the management of
cooperative perimeters in a sustainable way.
Assessment of Objectives.
3.    The project's objectives were clearly stated and understood, and supported the sector's
development strategy as defined in the MTSA. However, the operation was complex. The large
number of measures needed to implement the policies continually challenged the Borrower's
commitment to the reform program and seriously taxed its implementation capacity. The three-
year delay in the release of the second financing tranche provides evidence of the project's
complexity and the difficulties the Borrower faced in meeting the conditionalities. As for the
investment objectives, they were relevant and within the Borrower's capacity to implement. The
complementarity between adjustment and investment was satisfactory.  Although most
adjustment objectives were not fully met, they remain valid and will be pursued under planned
follow-up operations as detailed in the May 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The objectives of the adjustment program were partly achieved. Rice marketing and
pricing was to a considerable degree liberalized, the land tenure system was launched,



iii
restructuring of the agricultural development agency SONADER was completed, seed
multiplication and extension services were improved, and the Government's capacities in sector
planning and programming were strengthened. However, the agricultural cooperative credit
system is still struggling to improve the credit repayment rate and reduce its administrative costs;
restructuring of the Ministry for Rural Development (MRD) has not yet been completed;
irrigation works in the Senegal River valley have not sufficiently developed the use of available
water resources, and the results of livestock and environmental interventions remain limited.
The investment objectives were satisfactorily achieved.
Sustainability
5.    Despite shortcomings in achieving the sector reform objectives supported by this project,
prospects for their sustainability are positive. Following project completion, the Government has
continued to implement the liberalization of cereals marketing and pricing; is expanding the land
tenure reform; is pursuing the institutional restructuring of MDR and SONADER; and is
attempting to strengthen the operation of the agricultural credit system.  In addition, the
Government has decided to deepen and extend the reform program through a proposed integrated
development program for irrigated agriculture (PDIAIM) which is under preparation.
6.    Actions undertaken under the investment component are sustainable. Acceptable rates
of return on investments are expected to be achieved; producers are beginning to take charge of
their own affairs and manage their farms more efficiently; new cropping and perimeter
management techniques are being accepted, and diversification of irrigated crops is beginning to
be practiced. The progressive disengagement of the State in agricultural activities is having a
positive influence on the sustainability of project investments.
IDA and Borrower Performance
7.    Overall, IDA performance was satisfactory. The Bank provided considerable assistance
to the Government during preparation and appraisal of the project and worked effectively with
other donors. However, the Bank was too ambitious in its goals. Project design was too
complex, particularly in the number and detail of the measures needed to implement the reform
program which was beyond the Borrower's implementation capacity. Supervision of the
investment component was satisfactory. The frequency of supervision was acceptable but the
missions were often inadequately staffed. The effort would have been more effective if the Bank
had mounted multi-disciplinary supervision teams.
8.     Borrower performance was satisfactory concerning the investment component but
deficient with respect to the adjustment component. This was attributable to the slow decision-
making process, frequent changes in ministers which prevented a sustained policy dialogue,
weak institutions and a serious shortage of experienced administrative and managerial staff.
However, within these constraints, which were recognized during project preparation and
addressed under the project's institutional development component, the Borrower's performance
is considered satisfactory overall.



iv
Key Lessons Learned
9.     The following lessons can be drawn from this project:
(i)    Proiect design.   Despite the inherent complexities of a sector adjustment
operation, project design should be kept simple, realistic and not too ambitious.
The Government's capacity to implement the operation should be honestly
evaluated and assistance to strengthen it should be included in the project if
necessary. Even if the policy reform objectives are clearly defined, the measures
needed to implement them should be worked out in detail and agreed and
understood  by  the  Borrower prior to  implementation.   Similarly, the
conditionalities for tranche release should be unambiguous. This was not always
the case in this operation.
(ii)    Supervision. This project was the first agriculture sector adjustment operation in
Mauritania. It introduced modern irrigated agriculture where it did not exist
before, piloted by a weak and inexperienced administration. Consistent and high-
quality supervision by experienced Bank staff was therefore clearly essential, and
it was not always provided (staff turnover was high). Continuity in staffing for
supervision is crucial. And because of the multi-disciplinary nature of hybrid
operations, it is to be expected that more supervision resources need to be
allocated than would normally be the case for either investment or adjustment
operations.
(iii)   Government's changing role.  Government's withdrawal from the traditional
functions of management and control (e.g. through decentralization, privatization,
etc.) should be done gradually, and adequate support should be provided to help
ease the transition. Local staff should be trained under a structured program,
financed by the project. In this project, the change-over may have been too
abrupt.
(iv)   Hybrid operations. The hybrid character of the operation, where investments
supported reform actions, proved to be effective and made the reform program
more meaningful to those responsible for its implementation. Investments helped
create an enabling environment and demonstrated to the beneficiaries that the
reforms introduced under the project produced positive results.
(iv)   Economic viabilitv. Under current circumstances in Mauritania, irrigated rice
production for the domestic market (geared essentially to broken rice) is not
economically viable unless it is associated with other irrigated crops
(diversification) and unless this production system is integrated with the rest of the
agricultural sector. This issue needs to be addressed in follow-up operations.



v
Future Operations
10.   The Government has drawn lessons from this project experience and is reflecting them
in the design of its Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture (PDIAIM). The
broad outlines of the PDIAIM were discussed at a round table in Nouakchott in October 1995
and accepted by the donors including IDA and the Government. The PDIAIM will pursue the
reform measures initiated under the ASAIP, focusing on land tenure, credit, farmers'
organizations, extension and research, and rural infrastructure. Some investment components of
the PDIAIM are under preparation or implementation with donor support. As for adjustments,
France and Germany are supporting the credit aspects and the European Union the land tenure
aspects. IDA has granted a PPF advance for the preparation of a hybrid project within the
framework of the PDIAIM. Appraisal is scheduled for 1998. In addition, the Government is
preparing, with IDA assistance, a Rural Development Strategy that will reinforce the agricultural
sector development program. Finally, a number of sector studies are planned in connection with
the Country Assistance Strategy for 1997-2000, dealing with off-farm linkages and growth
opportunities, communication, diversification and technological transformation, and rural
services.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2093-MAU)
PART I: PROJECT EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.    Mauritania's economy declined from a period of 8 percent annual growth during the
1960s to a state of stagnation that persisted in the mid-1970s and early 1980s. Factors that
contributed to this stagnation include: (i) frequent droughts; (ii) the drop in demand for steel on
the world market, and hence in demand for iron ore which Mauritania exports; and (iii)
inappropriate macro-economic and sectoral policies.
2.    In 1984, to improve its deteriorating economic and financial situation, the Government
drew up an economic and financial recovery program for 1985-1988 (Programme general de
redressement economique - PREF). IDA supported the PREF through a Structural Adjustment
Credit (Cr. 1812-MAU, FY87)) which was implemented satisfactorily. In 1988, the Government
followed up with a second adjustment program -(Programme de consolidation et de relance -
PCR), which had as its main objectives: (i) consolidation of the gains from economic recovery
through reduction of the budget deficit and strict monetary management; (ii) improved selection
of projects and streamlining of Government's operating expenditures; (iii) improved incentive
system for the private sector; and (iv) reorganization of state enterprises and financial institutions
in order to create a climate conducive to growth. In connection with the PCR, the Government
formulated, also in 1988, a Medium-Term Sector Adjustment Program for Agriculture (MTSA)
to: (i) improve incentives for farmers and private investors; (ii) increase the efficiency of the
public sector, (the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) and SONADER, the national rural
development agency) and improve the planning and monitoring of the sector's public investment
program; and (iii) identify technologies and institutional support conducive to a less drought-
vulnerable livestock sector and to more sustainable desertification control. The Agricultural
Sector Adjustment and Investment Project (ASAIP) was designed to support the implementation
of the MTSA.
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    Description of project objectives. The project was a hybrid operation consisting of an
adiustment component and an investment component.
4.    The adiustment component was designed to deepen and broaden the agricultural sector
reforms begun under SAP I (which included a statement of agricultural policy and an action plan
on cereals trade and pricing), and to help implement the much broader reforms envisaged under
the MTSA. The MTSA policy agenda supported by the ASAIP contained ten specific medium-
term reform objectives, as follows:



- 2 -
(i)   Deregulate marketing and liberalize prices of agricultural outputs and inputs;
(ii)  Establish a viable agricultural credit system to support private sector and farmers;
(iii)  Ensure more secure land tenure;
(iv)  Improve the operational efficiency and financial performance of SONADER;
(v)  Improve the operational efficiency of MDR;
(vi)  Increase crop intensification and diversification through extension and research;
(vii) Improve sector investment planning and monitoring;
(viii) Devise and adopt more efficient means and technology to utilize irrigation
potential made available by the construction of the Manantali and Diama dams;
(ix)  Develop less drought-vulnerable animal husbandry; and
(x)  Develop sustainable environmental protection activities.
5.    The objective of the investment component was to help the Government test new
irrigation techniques and strengthen sustainable management of cooperative perimeters. This
component included support for (i) the management of a 2,000 ha collective perimeter and of the
Foum Gleita dam on the Gorgol River, and of 1,500 ha of flood-recession land located around
the Foum Gleita reservoir of the dam; and (ii) environmental protection operations benefiting
1,500 persons belonging to farming, stockraising and fishing families in the area.
6.    Assessment of objectives. Project objectives, while numerous, were precise, clearly-
stated and in accord with the sector's development strategy. A large number (about 190) of
specific measures, detailed in a matrix to guide and monitor implementation progress, covered
virtually all aspects of sectoral strategy. These measures mainly concerned the development of
irrigated agriculture. Rainfed areas and the livestock sector, although mentioned in the sector
analysis, were relatively neglected. The objectives of the reform program were ambitious and
seriously challenged the Borrower's commitment to the program and its implementation
capacity. As it turned out, the Borrower was unable to fulfill the policy reform conditions
attached to the release of the second tranche on time (estimated to occur about one year after
effectiveness), and second tranche release was delayed by about three years.
7.    The hybrid nature of the operation was justified by the obvious complementarity of the
adjustment component which was designed to support policies and reforms to promote irrigated
agriculture, and the investment component which was designed to test new irrigation methods for
small producers on collective perimeters.



- 3 -
B.1   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES: ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT
(a) Liberalization of cereals markets andpricing
8.    Three main areas were addressed under this objective: (a) abolition of the rice import
monopoly; (b) liberalization of cereals sales and purchase prices; and (c) creation of a system of
protective tariffs intended to protect rice producers, without however unduly penalizing
consumers. The results of measures taken to achieve the objective can be summarized as
follows:
9.    With respect to rice imports, SONIMEX, a public monopoly, was to be replaced by a
pool of traders involved in the marketing of domestic production. This was done, but the pool is
made up of only four to five private traders and SONIMEX (49 per-cent of whose stock was
bought by private parties, some of whom are members of the pool). The need for pool members
to have adequate resources to finance rice purchases and the difficulties involved in obtaining
hard currency to pay for imports made it difficult to expand the pool. This has put the current
members in the position of being a defacto oligopoly.
10.   The marketin       of domestic and imported rice has, in theory, been liberalized. However,
the Govemment retains some control over prices by fixing, for each paddy harvest, a so-called
"'orientation" price which incorporates an element of protection of local production. This is
followed by a "consultation" between the Government, the pool members and the producers to
ensure the sale of domestic production, and to agree on the level of imports needed to bridge the
supply gap. This informal agreement is advantageous for domestic producers since it guarantees
that their production will be sold, but it provides no incentives for them to improve yields and
reduce production costs. The consumer, unfortunately, is penalized by a market price which is
kept artificially high. As for the members of the pool, agreeing to buy the more costly domestic
rice allows them to make up losses on the favorable margins they can obtain on the imported
rice. Also, the pool has been able to obtain loans to purchase local paddy, in 1995 from
UNCACEM, at a more favorable rate than that charged by commercial banks, and, in 1996, from
commercial banks at interest rates subsidized by the Government. This excessively administered
and subsidized system invites possible abuses and is, therefore, not viable.
11.   Protective tariffs on imported rice were put in place in the form of a 45 percent tariff
applied to an average price quote, arrived at by means of a complex formula. This posted value
was to be readjusted every 3 months in order to reflect fluctuations in the international market
while at the same time attenuating those fluctuations. Since 1994, however, the posted value has
been adjusted only twice. Although protective tariffs have been applied in a conscientious
manner, the system has proven excessively complicated and difficult to manage. It is being
replaced by a much simpler formula agreed upon with the IMF and the World Bank.



- 4 -
Measures of ASAIP
(as in World Bank President's Report)
CONDITIONS FOR BOARD PRESENTATION
- Government to issue the Sector DevelopmentPolicy Statement.
- Government to issue a decree setting all the measures described in par. 35 & 36 regarding freedom of private sector in
marketing of local rice, CSA withdrawal from rice and food aid marketing, new cereal prices for 1988/89 and the new
formula for setting cereal prices thereafter, and programming of food imports.
- Governmentto complete bidding procedure for sales of the four public sector rice mills to the private sector.
- MDR to complete inventory of all land distributedto date in application of the Land Reform Law.
- Governmentto establish the interministerialland reform coordination committee.
- Governmentto specify minimum and maximum sizes of parcels to be distributedto individual farmers in applicationof
the Land Reform Law.
- SONADERJUBD to sign contractual agreement including action plan for SONADER withdrawal from credit delivery.
- SONADER to reduce its staff by 10 %, to increase water charges by 15%, and to declare that, starting in 1990, no credit
will be provided to farmers that have not repaid 100% of their debts vis-a-vis SONADER.
Land Tenure
- MDR to agree with IDA on its 1989-91 investment program..
CONDITIONS FOR FIRST TRANCHE RELEASE
- Satisfactory Review by IDA of progress made in implementation of the MTSA program.
- Government to start implementing custom duties on cereal imports and the formula linking the wholesale price of rice to
the world price.
- Government to complete transfer of rice mills to the private sector.
- Governmentto issue the revised application decrees and ministerial orders of the Land Reform Law.
- SONADERto further increase water charges by 15%.
- SONADERto issue and implement a three-yearaction program for its gradual withdrawal from input delivery.
- Govt to finance SONADER's budget deficit for 1990.
CONDITIONS FOR SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
- Satisfactory Review by IDA of progress made in implementation of the MTSA program
- Satisfactory implementationofall the provisionsofthe revisedapplicationdecreeand ministerialordersof the Land
Reform Law.
- Governmentto complete study of reorganization of land tenure-related public sector services and start implementing its
recommendations
- Governmentto complete land distribution plan (with schedule) in the Senegal valley and start implementationof this Plan
in the Delta region.
- UBD to complete reorganization of its agricultural credit department.
- UBD to issue new lending criteria for credit in rural areas.
- SONADER to issue and implementnew design, construction and 0 & M criteria for publicly-fundedirrigation
perimeters.
- MDR to issue and implement action plan and medium-term priority investment program for irrigation development
- SONADER to further increase water charges to full recovery of 0 & M costs.
- SONADER to complete its staff reduction and its reorganization and management reforms.
- Govt. to issue a decree revising composition of the Board of SONADER, and its procurement procedures, and to finance
its budget deficit for 1991.
- MDR to complete reorganizationof Cellulede Planification and definition of its 1991-91 work program.



-5-
(b) Agricultural Credit
12.   In 1989, SONADER's credit portfolio was transferred to the Government's development
bank (UBD). On the strength of its lending policies and financial resources, UBD increased its
lending volume exponentially over the 1989/90-1991/92 seasons, without, however, adequately
checking how funds were to be used and without requiring recovery of existing loans. The low
credit recovery rate (46 percent) led Government to decide, in May 1992, to remove agricultural
credit management from UBD and to create a mutual credit structure, in the form of agricultural
credit cooperatives (CACE) in the Trarza and Haut Fleuve regions, and an apex organization for
agricultural credit cooperatives (UNCACEM). The Bank supported the Government's decision.
13.   UNCACEM and the CACEs became operational in 1993. They had adequate regulatory
and financial frameworks and good accounting and financial procedures. The IDA credit
supported the organization, contributing 121 million UM between 1993 and 1995 to finance
groups within the CACE of the Haut-Fleuve region.
14.   UNCACEM inherited the liabilities of UBD's portfolio and was responsible for clearing
the accumulated arrears. Despite a rigorous policy of credit recovery, including legal action
against defaulters (liens, property seizures, judgments, etc.), the recovery rate was very low
(almost zero in the first year), essentially because the judicial system was not equipped to
achieve credit recovery through litigation, particularly in the Haut-Fleuve region. As a result,
from 1994 onward, UNCACEM only extended credit to clients who were current with their
credit repayments. As a result, the number of cooperative members eligible for credit dropped
from 700 in 1993/94 to 160 in 1996/97. In 1996/97, credit was extended to about 40 percent to
the large private farmers and to 15% of the cooperative members. On the other hand, the rate of
recovery for seasonal credit improved from 58% in 1994/95 to 90% in 1996/97, while total loans
extended to producers went from 274 million UM in 1992/93 to 498 million UM in 1996/97. In
addition, with financial assistance from Government and CFD, UNCACEM was able to mobilize
619 million UM for comercialization credit to help the pool purchase the 1995/96 domestic rice
production. For the 1996/97 campaign, the Government helped the pool to mobilize 1,100
million UM from commercial banks by paying the interest costs. This manoeuver clearly
demonstrated the advantages of financing marketing activities, but the method utilized (credit
rate bonification) is not sustainable.
15.   Under the project, agricultural credit has helped bring an average of about 9,500 ha into
paddy production each year since 1992/93, out of a total of 18,000 ha. It has also helped
purchase pumps, tractors and harvesters, and buy and market about 15,000 tons of paddy in 1996
and 2600 tons in 1997. Indirectly, agricultural credit has helped to regularize land tenure by
inducing credit cooperative members to commit to this task as a condition of credit access.
However, due to the low volume of loans granted, the management costs of the CACEs and
UNCACEM are too high: 9 percent of the value of loans granted, whereas the norm is about 5
percent. Clearly, the loan volume would need to increase considerably to keep management
costs within acceptable limits.



-6-
(c) Land Tenure
16.   In 1990, a decree was passed to introduce measures to (i) decentralize land attribution;
(ii) define the steps leading to property acquisition; (iii) effectively involve the population
concerned; and (iv) guarantee secure tenure. These measures were described in more precise
detail over the 1989-93 period, as experience with the new system was gained and needs became
better known, through laws and administrative circulars, particularly concerning the keeping of
the land registry (1990); the notion of vital space for rural settlements (1991); and modes of
representation and consultation of the population (1992). Most of the necessary legal arsenal
was perfected during this period. Another law, introduced in 1990, defined the mandates of the
entities in charge of land tenure policy, especially the Ministry of the Interior (Office of Land
Tenure Review), the MDRE (Office of Land Tenure), and the Ministry of Finance (the
Domaines, or land management office).
17.   On these regulatory and institutional foundations, a test operation on land tenure
regularization was begun in 1991 for cultivated parcels in the Trarza Est region. This operation
successfully demonstrated the feasibility of the new system and the advantages for agricultural
producers (incentives to better manage the capital of land and water, make long-term investments
and gain easier access to credit.)  This led the Government to expand the land tenure
reorganization, first to the Gorgol in April 1993, then to Trarza-Ouest in January 1994, and to the
whole of the Moyenne Vallee and Haute Vallee since 1995. As of 31 December 1996, requests
for land titles covered 39,594 ha in the Trarza, of which 27 per-cent concerned collective
perimeters (176 farms) and 73 per-cent private operators (648 farms). Of this total, 15,354 ha of
agricultural land were regularized (for an average surface area of 40 hectares), as were 23
gazetted land reserves (17,700 ha), 35 vital spaces (1,619 ha) and 3 gazetted forests (975 ha), for
a total regularized area of 35,648 ha. Clearly, the land tenure system initiated under the project
has been successfully launched and is fully expected to be sustainable.
(d) Reorganization of SONADER
18.   SONADER was first restructured in 1989 on the basis of studies financed by the Kuwaiti
Development Fund and the World Bank, and disengaged itself from activities that were
peripheral to its main mandate. It sold the Ka6di and Boghe rice mills, withdrew from marketing
activities, transferred agricultural credit activities to the newly mandated agencies (UBD, then
UNCACEM), and transferred agricultural input activities including the management and
maintenance of agricultural equipment to private operators. A second restructuring took place in
1995, which put order in its finances and significantly reduced staff (down from 540 to 265).
Water fees for producers in the irrigated perimeters were increased and farmers were made
responsible for water resource management through co-management protocols with SONADER
which ceded ownership of water works to them. Technical and financial management will thus
be progressively and completely transferred to farmers.  In addition, the composition of
SONADER's Board of Directors was changed to include a farmers' representative.
SONADER's restructuring is considered to have been successfully implemented.
(e) Restructuring and strengthening of MRD
19.   The Government's disengagement from agricultural production functions argued in favor
of transforming the MRD into the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (MRDE).
This restructuring was carried out in March 1993, based on a study financed by CFD.



- 7 -
Unfortunately, the restructuring program was not supported by budgetary provisions and other
measures such as staff training and information dissemination. At the regional level, the
restructuring program only became effective with the implementation of the Agricultural
Services Project (ASP) in 1995, which provided financing for the construction of offices,
transportation for field agents, in-service training and skills upgrading for staff, and a clear work
program. MDRE's salary budget increased by about 12 percent in real terms but declined in
constant terms of 1985.  Clearly, the basis for a more efficiently organized ministerial
department has been laid but the restructuring program is not complete and needs to be pursued
under follow-up operations.
(6) Research, seed multiplication and extension
20.   Research.     The National Agronomic Research Plan (NARP) was prepared and
adopted in November 1990 but could not be implemented for lack of funds. A new plan was
drawn up in 1995 as one component of the Agricultural Services Project (ASP). This plan
defines priorities for crop and animal research for the next ten years, based on constraints
identified in collaboration with producers and stockraisers.  It consists of five programs
corresponding to the five main production systems: (i) irrigated; (ii) rainfed/flood recession; (iii)
sylvo-pastoral; (iv) oases; and (v) peri-urban. The research component of the ASP was
unfortunately launched only in 1997 because of delays incurred by the Borrower in fulfilling
disbursement conditions. In the meantime, research activities have begun in the areas of
intensification (financed by CFD) and diversification (financed by the European Union).
21.   Seed multiplication.   A rice seed production/marketing system was set up under the
Seed Development Project (SDP), with UNEF/UNDP financing. Pre-foundation seed is
produced by the research services (CNRADA), sold to private producers of foundation seed, and
the latter are bought by seed-growing farmers for the production of commercial seed. The
Monitoring Service within the SDP's Management Unit monitors the quality of seed and certifies
it. In the rainfed zones, the SDP set up a system of collecting traditional seeds in village
storehouses, using new techniques of selection, decontamination and preservation. The supply of
rice seed is currently covered without difficulty by this system.
22.   Extension. A central directorate of research, training and extension was created in 1993,
and a unified extension service was set up within each regional delegation. Today, extension
reaches a large portion of the country's cropping zone, and the messages covered are beginning
to include aspects other than crops, e.g., stockraising, forestry and environmental protection.
(g) Public investment program
23.   To improve the planning and monitoring of investments and increase their contribution
to agricultural sector growth, the Planning Unit (PU) of MRDE was reorganized in December
1988, prior to the ASAIP, to include an Office of Economic Studies and Rural Policies, an Office
of Programming, Budgeting and Monitoring, and a Computer Applications Unit. In July 1993,
under the ASAIP, responsibility for the PU was entrusted to the Minister's Economic Adviser. A
training program in project analysis and investment budget design and monitoring was developed
in 1992 and four managers were trained. IDA supported the PU by financing vehicles, computer
equipment and staff incentives. The PU has contributed to the Bank's public expenditure review
missions of 1991 and 1995, to the preparation of the Paris Consultative Group in May 1994, and
to the preparation of a consolidated investment budget for the rural sector. The Unit has



- 8 -
published reports and programs of the CREDO and yearbooks of rural development data and has
developed a database on the primary sector. These activities are irrefutable evidence of
institution building.
(h) Irrigation
24.   In 1989, the pace of perimeter development in the Valley began to slow down. By 1994,
half of the private and public perimeters had been abandoned for various reasons: inadequacies
in the works or equipment; soil depletion due to faulty drainage; deterioration of the agriculture
terms of trade; strict adherence to credit recovery conditions; rigor in the payment of water fees;
disengagement of the State from activities that were inadequately or not at all taken up by the
private sector; good rains which favored a return to traditional rainfed or flood recession crops.
In response, measures were taken to improve the viability of irrigated farms: (i) the Water Code
became law; (ii) a Code of Irrigated Perimeters was drawn up to define and regulate the
respective roles of the Government and beneficiaries; (iii) the registry of irrigated perimeters was
updated in 1990, and again in 1994 in connection with SONADER's study of irrigated
perimeters; (iv) the post-dam study was finalized and new norms for the equipping of irrigated
perimeters were articulated by the MRDE; (v) based on studies conducted by SONADER in
1994, a consolidation program for small perimeters was launched; (vi) a start was made on
applying the Government's new intervention policy concerning hydro-agricultural infrastructure;
and (vii) a priority program to rehabilitate small dams outside the Senegal River Valley was
implemented. It should be noted, however, that the legal texts allowing for the application of the
Water Code has not been finalized, and that the Code on Irrigated Perimeters was judged
unnecessary since it overlapped with the Water Code as well as with the specification manual on
land tenure.
(i) Stockraising
25.   In connection with the ASAIP and the Second Livestock Project, 39 pastoral associations
(PA) were created, of which 34 had a veterinary product depot and 25 a dairy product mini-
project. In addition, 68 watering places were rehabilitated and 13 new ones created. Initially,
these associations covered a large territory, which limited their effectiveness. In 1993, 22 of
these PAs were reorganized into smaller and more operational entities. Two pastoral perimeters
(PP) were set up on a pilot basis to perfect a rational methodology of participatory pasture
management. It is still too early to assess the results, and the experiment will continue under the
Rainfed Natural Resource Management Project (RNRMP).
() Environmental Protection
26.   Progress in this area is limited. An environmental code and an environmental strategy
are under preparation, with UNDP assistance, in the context of the desertification convention. In
addition, a draft law on forests and wildlife and game management was finalized, and several
studies were conducted, including one on charcoal and one on the management of two gazetted
forests (Gani and Diorbivol).  Overall, commitment to environmental issues is limited and
progress is slow.



- 9 -
B.2    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES: INVESTMENT COMPONENT
27.   The investment program was successfully implemented. Pilot activities in the Foum
Gleita perimeter were carried out satisfactorily, and analyses performed by SONADER indicate
that the component will achieve an estimated financial rate of return ranging from 15% to 24 %,
depending on the scenario in question. Other results are detailed below:
(a)   Local cooperatives were integrated into a Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (UCAF).
UCAF participated in the planning and implementation of activities in the perimeter areas
and in the management of the water fees fund. A revolving fund was set up to ensure the
self-financing of the agricultural campaign. Producers were closely involved in the design
of this system, which explains the 100 % reimbursement rate over the five years of the
fund's operation.  The revolving fund has grown significantly, due to producers
reinvesting a portion of their profits. As a result, IJCAF has established a good capacity to
prefinance agricultural campaigns.
(b)  A rational water management system was set up, along with training and awareness
campaigns. As a result, water consumption per irrigated hectare was reduced by 50%
between 1990 and 1995.
(c)   Agricultural production improved after a decline during the 1992-94 period. Yields per
hectare stabilized at an acceptable level and cooperative members were advised to
diversify their crops. Women's cooperatives cultivated vegetable gardens on 16 ha in
1993, 25 ha in 1994 and 36 ha in 1995.
(d)   Extension services were strengthened, which resulted in more effective dissemination of
information to farmers (line planting, mulching, weeding, leveling, flooding, introduction
of certified seed). Extension services covered about 30 % of farmers and the adoption rate
was abou 40%.
(e)  Integrated stockraising was strengthened with the creation of an agro-pastoral association
in 1991, which now has 210 members and provides animal health services through 35
trained livestock auxiliaries equipped with medical kits and a pharmacy. In addition, two
stabling areas and a pit silo for the composting of urine-soaked straw were built. As a
result, the livestock population grew from about 1,000 cattle and 3,000 small ruminants in
1987 to more than 5,500 cattle and 21,000 small ruminants by 1993.
(f)   Fishing in the dam's reservoir was developed through the creation of pre-cooperative
groups which were targeted by extension services and provided with light fishing gear.
The average gross income of a fisherman, estimated at 370,000 UM per year, is greater
than that of a rice producer with a standard-size family parcel.
(g)   Environmental protection was promoted through the planting of windbreaks along canals
and drains, over a total distance of 20 km; distribution and planting of 12,000 shade trees;
placement of a small eucalyptus plantation near abandoned parcels; and the creation of 44
ha of green space. The windbreaks were set up so as to be both protective and productive,
a technique that has resulted in the harvest of both firewood and construction lumber.



-10-
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
(a) Factors not under Government's control
28.   Factors not under Government's control that affected the project were: (i) dependence on
external aid; and (ii) fluctuation in world prices for rice.
* Mauritania depended heavily on external aid to finance the investments and institutional
support that accompanied the ASAIP. This aid was specifically earmarked and subject to
the financing procedures and schedules particular to each donor. This reduced the
Government's ability to follow a coherent action plan for its operations and to coordinate
activities over which it had little control. A pro-active approach vis-a-vis the donors and
better planning and coordination by the Government would have improved project
outcomes.
* The significant increase in the price of rice on the international market in 1995 was
viewed as good news by national producers as local production became more
competitive, and also by the Government which saw its economic justification for
investments in the Valley improve. However, since Mauritanian consumers prefer
broken rice, traders imported massive quanitities of broken rice from Asia, at very
favorable prices. Although tariffs were established to ensure the sale of domestic
production, this was done in a way that did not conform to the spirit of the liberalization
policy on cereals marketing and pricing.
(b) Factors within the Government's control
29.   In several areas, the Government could have played a more decisive role. For example:
-  A good monitoring and evaluation system and more rigorous planning and coordination
would have produced better results, and sooner. The Planning Unit within MDRE,
financed by the credit, was nominally in charge of these tasks. However, the PU was not
transformed into a Directorate of Studies and Planning and given a clear mandate, as
planned for under the project, and there is no provision for its operational expenses in the
Ministry's recurrent budget, for reasons that are unclear.
*  In the area of agricultural credit, the Government had a tendency, especially at the
beginning of the project, to interfere in decisions on loan applications and awards made
by UNCACEM, an autonomous agency which receives its funding from the Government.
As a result, UNCACEM was forced, in 1993, to grant loans without adequate credit
checks, often to persons who had not paid off previous debts. The situation has
improved, but a large portion of UNCACEM's arrears are holdovers from that period.
*  The National Federation of Transporters, which has a monopoly on road transport and
fixes its prices unilaterally, carries imported agricultural inputs to the farmers and local
production to the markets. The high cost of land transport handicaps the marketing of
local rice with respect to price. The Government should have introduced competitive



- 11 -
mechanisms into the transport sector to bring about a drop in prices. A similar constraint
weighed upon air transport, to the extent that Air Afrique has a monopoly it shares with
Air France for cargo not handled by Air Mauritania. Attempts at diversification for
export purposes seem impossible until concrete measures are taken in this area.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   Despite shortcomings in achieving the stated reformn objectives, prospects for their
sustainability are positive. Following project completion, the Government has continued to
implement the liberalization of cereals marketing and pricing; is expanding the land tenure
reform; is pursuing the institutional restructuring of MDR and SONADER; and is attempting to
strengthen the operation of the agricultural credit system. In addition, the Government has
decided to deepen and extend the reform program through its proposed integrated development
program for irrigated agriculture (PDIAIM).
31.    Actions undertaken under the investment component are considered sustainable. From
an economic standpoint, rates of return, estimated at 15% and 24% for two different scenarios,
are expected to be met because (i) producers are able take charge of their own affairs and manage
their farms; (ii) cropping and perimeter management techniques (including financial
management) have progressively improved; and (iii) diversification of irrigated crops and
integration with flood-recession cropping, stockraising, forestry and fishing is being introduced.
The progressive disengagement of the state (i.e. SONADER), accompanied by training of
personnel to take over, is having a positive influence on the sustainability of project investments.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
32.   Overall, IDA performance was satisfactory. The Bank provided considerable assistance
to the Government during preparation and appraisal of the project and worked effectively with
other donors. However, the Bank was too ambitious in its goals. Project design was too
complex, particularly in the number and detail of the measures needed to implement the reform
program which was beyond the Borrower's implementation capacity. Supervision of the
investment component was satisfactory. The frequency of supervision was acceptable but the
missions were often inadequately staffed. The effort would have been more effective if the Bank
had mounted multi-disciplinary supervision teams.
F.     BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.    Borrower performance was satisfactory concerning the investment component but
deficient with respect to the adjustment component. This was attributable to the slow decision-
making process, frequent changes in ministers which prevented a sustained policy dialogue,
weak institutions and a serious shortage of experienced administrative and managerial staff.
However, within these constraints, which were recognized during project preparation and indeed
addressed under the project's institutional development component, the Borrower's performance
is considered satisfactory overall.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS
34.   Given that the project's objectives were ambitious, overall results are relatively
satisfactory. The project had a positive impact on land tenure reform; gave small producers more



- 12 -
equitable access to the means of production; reduced the role of the Government in the economy
with the liberalization of the cereals and agricultural input trades; privatized production units;
and successfully restructured SONADER to better assist producers. Other objectives supported
by the project were not achieved: rice production in the Delta has not become economically
viable; the cost and benefits of protection measures are not shared equally by producers and
consumers; and there were no discernible positive spillover effects on other sectors of the
economy. However, there are clear trends toward improvement of irrigated agricultural
production, which deserve to be pursued under follow-up operations.
H.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   The following lessons can be learned from this project:
(i)    Proiect design.   Despite the inherent complexities of a sector adjustment
operation, project design should be kept simple, realistic and not too ambitious.
The Government's capacity to implement the operation should be honestly
evaluated and assistance to strengthen this capacity should be included in the
project if necessary. Even if the policy reform objectives are clearly defined, the
measures needed to implement them should be worked out in detail and agreed
and understood by the Borrower prior to implementation.  Similarly, the
conditionalities for tranche release should be unambiguous. This was not always
the case in this operation.
(ii)    Supervision. This project was the first agriculture sector adjustment operation in
Mauritania. It introduced modem irrigated agriculture where it did not exist
before, piloted by a weak and inexperienced administration. Consistent and high-
quality supervision by experienced Bank staff was therefore clearly essential, and
it was not always provided (staff turnover was high). Continuity in staffing for
supervision is crucial. And because of the multi-disciplinary nature of hybrid
operations, it is to be expected that more supervision resources need to be
allocated than would normally be the case for either investment or adjustment
operations.
(iii)   Government's chaneing role.  Government's withdrawal from the traditional
functions of management and control (e.g. through decentralization, privatization,
etc.) should be done gradually, and adequate support should be provided to help
ease the transition. Local staff should be trained under a structured program,
financed by the project. In this project, the change-over may have been too abrupt.
(iv)   Hybrid operations. The hybrid character of the operation, where investments
supported reform actions, proved to be effective and made the reform program
more meaningful to those responsible for its implementation. Investments helped
create an enabling environment and demonstrated to the beneficiaries that the
reforms introduced under the project produced positive results.
(iv)   Economic viability. Under current circumstances in Mauritania, irrigated rice
production for the domestic market (geared essentially to broken rice) is not
economically viable unless it is associated with other irrigated crops



- 13 -
(diversification) and unless this production system is integrated with the rest of the
agricultural sector. This issue needs to be addressed in follow-up operations.
1.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   The Government has drawn lessons from this project experience and is reflecting them in
the design of its Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture (PDIAIM). The
broad outlines of the PDIAIM were discussed at a round table in Nouakchott in October 1995
and accepted by the donors including IDA and the Government. The PDIAIM will pursue the
reform  measures initiated under the ASAIP, focusing on land tenure, credit, farmers'
organizations, extension and research, and rural infrastructure. Some investment components of
the PDIAIM are under preparation or implementation with donor support. As for adjustments,
France and Germany are supporting the credit aspects and the European Union the land tenure
aspects. IDA has granted a PPF advance for the preparation of a hybrid project within the
framework of the PDIAIM. Appraisal is scheduled for 1998. In addition, the Government is
preparing, with IDA assistance, a Rural Development Strategy that will reinforce the agricultural
sector development program. Finally, a number of sector studies are planned in connection with
the Country Assistance Strategy for 1997-2000, dealing with off-farm linkages and growth
opportunities, communication, diversification and technological transformation, and rural
services.



- 14 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION PROJECT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2093-MAU)
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Evaluation Summary
A. Attainment of Objectives   Substantial  Partial    Negligible   NotApplicable
Macro-economicpolicies      E            E              0             E
Sectoral policies           Q                          E3  0i
Financial objectives         aEl a                     o
Institutionaldevelopment     a            0             o             a
Physical objectives          0           E             E             E
Poverty alleviation         E             0            E             E
Gender issues                a           E             E              0
Other social objectives     E            E             E              0
Environmentalobjectives     E             0            E             E
Public sector management                 El            El            El1
Private sector               0           E             E             E
development
B. Project Sustainability      Probable          Improbable            Uncertain
(1)                 (/)                   (//)
0                   El                    El



- 15 -
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfactorv      Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory
(/)                 (1)                     )
Identification                                     5 O
Support for preparation                            [1                    0
Appraisal                     5                                          5
Supervision                   C]                                         0
Highlv
D. Borrower performance               satisfactoa   Satisfactoa  Unsatisfactory
(/)          (1)          (1)
Highly
E. Assessment of results     satisfatory   Satisfactorv     Fair           Poor
0/)          0/)           0/)            (/)



- 16-
Table 2: World Bank Loans/IDA Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit                  Purpose               approval        Status
Preceding this operation
Rural Sector Technical    Strengthening of MRD's       1983        Completed
Assistance Project     Environmental Protection
(Cr. 1414-MAU)         Department.
Second Livestock Project  Promotion of animal health,  1986        Completed
(Cr. 1658-MAU)         introduction of fees for services
rendered, and creation of pastoral
associations.
Following this operation
Agricultural Services  Strengthening of national extension  1994   Ongoing
Project (Cr. 2575-MAU)   and research services.
Rainfed Natural Resource  Halting environmental        1997        Board presentation
Management Project     deterioration in the rainfed zone.         took place on June
Increased incomes, poverty                 17, 1997.
reduction and improvement of
living standards for rural
populations.
Integrated Development   Improvement of the institutional    1998  Under preparation,
Program for Irrigated  environment, restructuring of               with Board
Agriculture in Mauritania  perimeter management, farmer            presentation
training, consolidation of existing        scheduled for July
perimeters, marketing, and                 1998.
environmental protection.



-17-
Table 3: Project Calendar
Stages in project cycle     Estimated Date             Actual Date
Identification                  June 1987             September 30, 1988
Appraisal                       Oct./Nov 1988         Oct.2 -Nov 14, 1988
Negotiations                     February 15, 1989    April 25-29, 1989
Letter of Agricultural Policy   N/A                   April 22, 1989
Board presentation              April 25, 1989        February 13, 1990
Signing                         September 1989        February 26, 1990
Effectiveness                   September 1989        April 27, 1990
First tranche                   September 1989        April 27, 1990
Second tranche                  June 1991             May 25, 1994
Project completion              December 31, 1994    December 31, 1996
Credit closing                  December 31, 1995    May 8, 1997
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursements - Estimated and Actual
(in US$ millions)
FY90 I FY91 I FY92 I FY93 I FY94  I FY95 I FY96  FY97.
Appraisal Estimate                        I", II -l ,                           I
Actual
Actual as%ofAppraisal       103 |   531   56|   57|   99    106    106    107|
Date of final disbursement: May 8, 1997



- 18-
Table 5 A: Key Indicators of Project Implementation, Adjustment Component
NO                            NAME OF INDICATOR                                                           STATUS
PRICES AND MARKETING
I       Liberalization of paddy/rice marketing.                                 Decree 89-056 of 4/17/89 defining cereals policy
2       Elimination of commercial restrictions on the sale of food aid to private parties    Admin. circular n002 /CSA of 01/15/89
3       Elimination of SONIMEX's monopoly on purchase of CSA's rice              Decree n90-144 of 10/13/90
4       Liberalization of sale price of imported rice by SONIMEX                 Order n 91-09 of 4/22191
5       Total withdrawal of CSA from marketing of cereals coming from marketed food   Auction at CSA storehouses in Nouakchott
aid.
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
6       Examination and promulgation by Government of basic legal texts governing  Laws 67-171 and 93-015 on cooperation
agricultural credit
7       Signing of protocol for transfer of agricultural credit from SONADER to UBD  Protocol signed 11/17//88
LAND TENURE
9       Publication of decree establishing National Land Tenure Commission       Decree 89-123 of 9/14/89 establishing Interministerial Committee for
Post-Dam Period and Land Tenure
1 0     Publication of circular on criteria for viability in the sense of Article 3 of Decree   Circular nO 19 of December 5, 1984
n020 (inventory of minimum infrastructures)
I I     Publication of circular on notion of vital space in the sense of Article 4 of Decree  Circular n 14 of June 1990 on ownership of wells and boreholes
n90-020 and Articles 1162-63                                           Circular n026 of 10/12/91. Vital space of rural settlements.
12      Circular defining methods of processing land requests, arrangements pertaining to  Circular n023 of 8/28/90. Assignment of parcels to agricultural use and
individualization. Instructions concerning application of Article 65 of Decree  regularization of attribution.
n90-020 (prior rights).
13      Creation of commissions with regulatory authority to prepare decisions of  Decree 90-020 of January 30, 1990
attribution or adjustment of parcels.
SONADER
14      Publication of an action plan, accepted by the World Bank, for withdrawal from    Completed. Withdrawal complete since 1991
input distribution to farmers over the next 3 years.
15     Introduction of water fees covering totality of operation and maintenance costs of  Completed.
irrigated producer groups (GPI)
16      Publication of Decree modifying statutes                                 Decree 92-069 of 11/23/92
IRRIGATION
17     Draft Code of Irrigated Perimeters and adjustment of Water Code          Draft Code of Irrigated Perimeters drawn up during the post-dam period
(EAB)



- 19-
NO                           NAME OF INDICATOR                               |_STATUS
18      Publication of directives on new norms for equipping perimeters        MRD's directives to SONADER
REORGANIZATION OF MRDE                                                 __
19      Completion of MDRE's reorganization                                    Reorganization in accordance with Decree 029 of 4/1/91
20      Publication of decree defining mandate of MRDE and central organization of its
departments
21      Finalization of department's organization , management and centralization plan    Decree n22/93 of March 3, 1993
RESEARCH - TRAINING - EXTENSION
22      Preparation of national plan for agronomic research                     Completed, submitted to donors in November 1990.
New plan under Ag. Services Project
23      Design of national extension system applicable to rainfed and irrigated zones.  Letter of policy drawn up in connection with Agricultural Services
Project
LIVESTOCK - ENVIRONMENT
24      Study of modification of Forestry Code with a view to abolishing unregulated  Principle taken into consideration, but problems of grazing land tenure
grazing                                                                remain to be studied
25      Drawing up of a master plan (priority zones for technical intervention, etc.)  Schema presented in regional action plans
26      Design of Environmental Code                                            Begun
27      Start of study of charcoal sub-sector                                   Partial study done in connection with improved stoves project
28      Study of livestock marketing                                            Completed by BDPA



- 20-
Table 5 B: Key Indicators of Project Implementation, Investment Component
Nature of works                                   Planned      Actual
Resurfacing of interior dirt tracks               nq        70.6  km
Resurfacing of canal sides                       51.3       51.8  km
Shoulder of S21                                    I           I    u
Enrockment and const. of abutments                nq        267  m3
Recalibration of Gorgol Noir                      nq       6,000  m3
Leveling of parcels                               nq        205   ha
Clearing of drain outlets 900                     nq       4,207  m3
Footbridges                                       nq           3    u
Culverts                                           6           5    u
-_-
Clearing of drain outlets (mechanical)            nq        613  m3
Repair of breaks                                  nq       2,672  m3
Clearing of main drains (mechanical)              nq         4.7  km
Clearing of principal drains (mechanical)         nq           0  km
Clearing of secondary drains (mechanical)         nq         5.9  km
Clearing of secondary canals (manual)             nq        93.2  km
Weeding - main canals                             nq         129  km
Weeding secondary canals                          nq       217.9  km
Weeding - main drains                             nq        12.5  km
Weeding - secondary drains                        nq       160.1  km
Table 6: Key Indicators of Project Operation
Not Applicable



- 21-
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                         Purpose as defined in               Status            Impact of the Study
Appraisal/Redeflned
(i) Land Tenure Sub-Component
Study of reorganization of public land tenure  Definition of the roles of different  Complete in 1993  Organization of the Land
administration                         ministries.                                              Tenure Administration
Reorganization of public and private land  Synthesis of various studies    Completed in 1993    Surveys done in entire valley.
tenure, summary of results and plan of
action 1993-97
Study of rational methods for future   Completion of a framework           Completed in 1992    Framework adopted
determination of spaces and reserves
Land registry and pre-registry for Trarza Est                              Completed in         System is operational .
region                                                                     November 1993        Improved security.
(ii) Credit sub-component                 .______
Study of agricultural credit assets and of  Balance sheet of UBD Directorate  Completed in      Transfer of UBD credit
UBD (fixed assets and portfolio)                                           November 1993        portfolio to UNCACEM
(iii) Irrigation sub-component                                   .
Study preceding new guidelines for less  Establish technical norms and costs for   Completed in 1991  Administrative directives in
costly and more viable methods of      hydro agricultural civil works                           1993 establishing equipment
construction, operation and maintenance of                                                      norms.
irrigation networks
Studies of rehabilitation of existing  Diagnostic evaluation and status update  Completed in 1994  Better knowledge for future
perimeters (EAB and others)            of existing schemes                                      action
Priority program of rehabilitation and  Preparation of a National program for    Finalized in 1990  Led to investment in Tagant
expansion of small dams beyond Senegal    Dams construction                                     and Assaba (France, UNDP)
River Valley
Study preceding priority medium-term   Preparation of an Integrated        Completed in 1995    Program framework adopted
investment program for irrigation      Development Program for Irrigated                        by donors
development                            Agriculture in Mauritania (PDIAIM)
Study preceding calculation of water fees    Assessment of real water costs and  Finalized in 1993  Transfer of infrastructure in
covering all operation and maintenance costs  maintenance fees.                                 process
in the large irrigated perimeters                                                              I                           I



- 22-
Study                          Purpose as defined in              Status             Impact of the Study
Appraisal/Redefined
(iv) MRD sub-component                                                                                                      l
Study of MRD's reorganization           More efficient Ministry             Completed in         Restructuring of MRD took
December 1992        place in 1993
Analysis of legal and regulatory texts  'Review of legal texts on MRD       Completed in 1996
conceming MRD                           organization
(v) SONADER sub-component 
Study of SONADER's reorganization       A more efficient organization       Completed in 1989    First phase implemented.
Study on master plan for SONADER's     Adoption of a Mission letter         Completed in 1992/93  Proposals accepted.
Study of master plan for SONADER's      Better administration and financial  Completed in 1992/93  Computerization of Admin. &
administrative and financial management    performance                                           financial management
implemented.
Study of SONADER's financial, accounting  Better administration and financial  Completed in 1994  Computerization of Admin. &
and budgetary management and proposal for  performance                                           financial management
computerization of management system
Study of SONADER's human resources      To assess personnel needs           Completed in 1995    Staff reduced
Study of management and maintenance of    Preparation of a model of contract for    Completed in 1994  Legislation under
collective works within hydro-agricultural   transfer of responsibility to farmers               consideration.
installations.                          organization.
(vi) Research sub-component
National Research Plan                  Define research priorities          Completed in 1994,    IDA supported research
reviewed in 1997     program financed under AS
project
(vii) Environmental sub-component_______                                                  ___ _____________
Multisectoral anti-desertification plan  Coordinate actions for better results  Completed in 1991  Limited implementation
(regional action plans)                                                                          through lack of funds.
National environmental strategy         Protect environment                 Under preparation    Slow progress



- 23 -
Table 8 A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                Current
(US$ M)                      estimate
(US$ M)
Categories                  Local         Foreign         Total         Total
Currency      Currency
Quick disbursing             0.0           24.0           24.0          25.3
Institution building         1.7            4.8            6.5           8.9
Irrigation investmnents      3.2            3.3            6.5           7.9
Total                        4.9           32.1           37.0          42.1
Table 8 B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate             Current Estimate
(US$ M)                       (US$ M)
Source of financing     Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
currency   currency            currency   currency
IDA                          2.1      22.9      25.0        2.7      24.0    26.7
CCCE/CFD                     0.8       7.2       8.0        1.1      10.1    11.2
Federal Republic of          0.0       2.0       2.0        0.0       2.2     2.2
Germany
World Food Program           1.0       0.0       1.0        1.0       0.0     1.0
Government                   1.0       0.0       1.0        1.0       0.0     1.0
Total                        4.9      32.1      37.0        5.8      36.3    42.1
.-                               -        -. . .



- 24-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(UM Million)
YEAR        COST OF        NET OPERATING  OPERATING
PROJECT OR          INCOME         BALANCE
l __   POST-PROJECT
Investment Phase
1991            110.64             36.87       -73.77
1992            173.93            -15.75      -189.68
1993            104.52             15.33        -89.19
1994            152.71             -1.51      -154.22
1995            140.34            114.21       -26.13
1996            157.081           218.12        61.04
MaintenanceTPhase
1997             30.00            257.00       227.00
1998             30.00            257.00       227.00
1999             30.00            257.00       227.00
2000             30.00            322.49        292.49
2001             30.00            322.49        292.49
2002             30.00            322.49        292.49
2003             30.00            380.36        350.36
2004             30.00            380.36        350.36
2005             30.00            380.36        350.36
2006             30.00            380.36        350.36
2007             30.00            380.36        350.36
2008             30.00            380.36        350.36
2009             30.00            380.36        350.36
200              30.001           380.36        350.36
TOTAL               1259.22           5148.62        3889.4
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN = 24,32%



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-      Section         Type of       Present       Original        Revised                    Description of Covenant                    Remarks
ment                       covenant       Status      Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Date            Date
C20930     3.01           5,10             C                                           The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of  Structuring of the
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agrmt &, to  Planning Unit (C4)
this end, shall carry out Part C4 & 5 of the projects through  achieved but staffing
MDRE w/due diligence & efficiency & in confornity  recently reduced
w/appropriate agricultural practices, & shall provided,  drastically due to
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services & other   budget shortage.
resources required for the Project.
3.02(aXi)     5,10             C                                           Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other   Building of access
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i)   road (A2) replaced by
cause SONADER to carry out Parts Al through 6, B& CI   drinking water supply
&2 of the Project and to perform, in accordance w/the  to villages in the
provisions of the SONADER Project Agreement, all the  scheme. Work in
other obligations of SONADER therein set forth;    process and will be
completed before
12/31/96.
3.02(aXii)    5,10             CP                                          UNCACEM to carry out Part A.7 of the Project and to  Credit repayment is
perform, in accordance with provisions of the UNCACEM    low. Audit is late.
Project Agreement, all the other obligations of UNCACEM
therein set forth; and
3.02(aXiii)    5,10            C                                           Take or cause to be taken all action, including the  Met regularly
provision of funds, facilities, services & other resources
necessary or appropriate to enable SONADER &
UNCACEM to perform such obligations, & shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance
3.02(bXi)     5,10             C                                           The Borrower shall: (i) make the proceeds of the Credit  No comments
allocated from time to time to Categories 1,2(b), 4(b) &
5(b) of the table set forth in para. I of Schedule I to this
Agrmt available to SONADER under the SONADER
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
3.02(b)(ii)   5,10             C                                           Make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to  No comments
time to Category 3 of said table available to UNCACEM
under UNCACEM Subsidiary loan Agreement, both on
terms & conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.



- 26-
Agre-        Section         Type of        Presnt        Original          Revised                    Description of Covenant                      Remarks
meet                        covenant        Status      Fulfillment      Fulfillment
Date             Date
3.02(c)        5,10              C                                            The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the      Met regularly
SONADER Subs. Grant Agrmt & the UNCACEM Subs.
Loan Agrmt in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower & the Association & to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit &, except as the Assoc. shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shalI not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the SONADER SGA or the
.___________ ___________  UNCACEM SGA for any provision.
3.03(a)        5,9,10            C                                            The Borrower & the Association shall from time to time, at  Met regularly.
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program & the actions
.________  ____________  ______________    ______________  specified  in  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement.
3.03(b)        5,9,10            C                                            Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall    Progress reports are
fumish to the Association for its review & comment a  regularly prepared
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the   and submitted to IDA.
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
3.04           5,9,10            C                                            Except as the Borrower & the Association shall otherwise    No comments
agree, procurement of the goods & consultants' services
for the Program & for Parts C.4 &5 of the Project, and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
govemed by provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.05           5,9,10            C                                            The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project,  Ceillule's staff
maintain the Cellule, the Interministerial Committee & the   plummeted over the
Technical Project Unitor any other entity for coordination    last year due to
& supervision acceptable to the Borrower and the      budget constraints.
Association, with adequate staffing & responsibilities.
3.06(aXi)      5,9,10            C                                            Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other   No comments
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) i)
not later than 11/30 during each yr the Project is carried
out, review SONADER's budget referred to in Section
________  __________  ____________  _2.08 of the SONADER Project Agreement; &
3.06(aXii)     5,9,10            C                                            Promptly thereafter take all necessary measures, including   Met regularly.
the provision of funds, to enable SONADER to carry out
its budgeted operations.
3.06(b)        5,9,10            C                                            Not later than 6/30/90, second staff with expertise in  No comments
forestry, public health & fisheries to SONADER's regional
directorate of Foum Gleita.



- 27-
Agree-       Section         Type of        Present       Original         Revised                     Description of Covenant                      Remarks
ment                        covenant        Status      Fulfillment      Fulfillment
Date             Date
3.07(a)        1,2               C                                            The Borrower shall maintain, or cause SONADER &       No comments
UNCACEM to maintain, records & accts. adequate to reflect
in accordance w/consistently maintained sound acct.
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of
I_________                        _________                                     the  Credit.
3.07(bXi)      1,2               C                                            The Borrower shall: (i) have the records & accounts   Status Code: C
referred to in para (a) of this Section, including those for    (MDRE &
the Special Accounts, for each fiscal yr audited in   SONADER) Status
accordance w/appropriate auditing principles consistently    Code: CP
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the    (UNCACEM) -
Association.                                          UNCACEM audits
late due to lack of
financial resources.
European Union &
KfW have formally
agreed to provide
funding. Selection of
auditors being
finalized.
3.07(bXii)     1,2               C                                            Furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any    Status Code: C
case not later than 6 months after the end of such yr. a  (MRDE &
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,    SONADER) Status
or such scope & in such detail as the Association shall have  Code: CP
reasonably requested; and                            (UNCACEM) -
Certified copy of
auditors reports for
UNCACEM overdue
(see above).
3.07(bXiii)    1,2               C                                            Furnish to the Association such other information     No comments.
concerning said records & accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.07(c)(i)     1,2               C                                            For all expenditures w/respect to which withdrawals from    No comments.
the Credit Acct. we made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accordance with para (a) of this Section,
records & accounts reflecting such expenditures;
3.07(c) ii)    1,2               C                                            Retain, until at least I year after the Association has received No comments
(iii)                                                                         the audit report for the FY in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Acct. was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoice bills, receipts & other documents) evidencing such
expenditures; (iii) enable the Association's representatives t
examine such records; and



- 28-
Agree-      Section         Type of       Present       Original        Revised                    Description of Covenant                    Remarks
ment                       covenant       Status      Fulfillment     Fulfillment
______  _ _______  _________   __Date  Date
3.07(cXiv)    1,2              C                                           Ensure that such records & accts are included in the annual  No comments
audit referred to in parm (b) of this Section & that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such FY, together w/the procedures & internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied on to
support the related withdrawal.
3.08          5,9,10            C                                          The Borrower & the Association agree that the obligations   No comments
set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General
Conditions (insurance, use of goods & services, plans &
schedules, records & reports, maintenance & land
acquisition): (a) in respect of Parts A. I through 6,B &
C. l&2 shall be carried out by SONADER Proj. Agrmt; &
(b) in respect of Part A.7 be carried out by UNCACEM
___________   (section 2.03 of UNCACEM PA
Project    2.01(bXi) (ii)  5,9             F                                           Without limitation upon the provisions of parm (a) of this    No comments
Section, UNCACEM shall; (i) provided agric. credit on the
basis of the criteria & principal terms & conditions set
forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agrmt; and (ii)
exercise its rights in relation to each credit so provided in
such a manner to protect interest of the Assoc. &
UNCACEM & comply with Proj. Agrmt.
2.05(c)       9,10             CP         01/27/1997                       UNCACEM shall: not later than 3/31 of each yr during  No comments
which Part A.7 of the Project is carried out, prepare a
report on its agricultural credit operations during the
previous calendar yr including recommendations for any
improvements to be made;
2.05(d)       9,10             CP                                          UNCACEM shall: not later than 4/30 of each yr during  No comments
which Part A.7 of the Project is carried out, discuss said
rpts with the Borrower & the Association.
2.05(e)       9,10             CP                                          UNCACEM shall: (e) promptly thereafter take all measures  No comments
agreed upon by UNCACEM, the Borrower and the
Association to improve UNCACEM's agric. credit
operations.
2.06          9                C                                           UNCACEM shall not supply equipment and inputs to    No comments
farmers.
2.06(b)       9                C                                           SONADER shall, not later than 6/30/90, enter into   No comments
agreements acceptable to the Borrower & the Association,
setting forth the parties' respective obligations: (b) with
the Centre National de Recherches Agricoles, with regard
to agricultural research.



- 29-
Agree-       Section         Type of       Present       Original        Revised                    Description of Covenant                     Remarks
ment                       Covenant        Status      Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Date            Date
2.07(a) (b)   9                 C                                           SONADER shall: (a) sell inputs delivered to farmers at  No comments
their full cost, including transport; and (b) until its
complete withdrawal from agric. credit activities, not
provide credit to farmers who have not fully repaid their
debts to SONADER.
2.09          9,10              C                                           SONADER shall, not later than 6/30/90, establish in its  No comments
regional Directorate of Foum Gleita a division, responsible
for the operation & maintenance of irrigation systems in
the Project Area & with such staffing levels & other
resources as shall be acceptable to the Association.
2.1 0(a)      9,10              C                                           SONADER shall: (a) with the assistance of engineering  No comments
experts, whose qualifications, experience & terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association, annually
inspect the Foum Gleita dam & its related structures for
deficiencies in its condition or in the quality & adequacy of
its maintenance & operations;                      __________
2.10(b) (c)   9,10              C                                           SONADER shall: (b) immediately after each such       No comments.
inspection, issue a report thereon, prepared by said
engineering experts, & promptly take or cause to be taken
all remedial action, if any, recommended in said report;
and (c) not later than 6/30/90, furnish the first such report
to the Association.
Classification of agreements                                    Status
I     Accounts/audits                                          C        Complied with
2     Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  CD     Compliance after delay
3     Flow and utilization of Project Funds                    NC       Not Complied with
4     Counterpart funding                                      SOON   Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
5     Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency  CP  Complied with Partially
6     Environmental covenants                                  NYD    Not yet due
7     Involuntary resettlement
8     Indigenous people
9     Monitoring, review and reporting
10   Implementation
11    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12    Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13    Other



- 30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of project       Planned              Revised              Actual
cycle
l__________________   Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$      Weeks       US$
Up to appraisal        nq         nq        nq        nq         84.2    151,250
Appraisal              nq         nq        nq        nq         35.1     57,159
Negotiations to Board  nq         nq        nq        nq         40.1     86,940
presentation
Supervision            nq         nq        nq        nq        197.4    387,024
Completion             14,5     33.875     16,5      34.395       7.0      14,300
Total                                                           363.8    696,673



- 31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
PerformanceRatlng
Number                      Specialized      Implemen-      Develop-
Stage of        Month/        of        Days in         Staff Skills      itation        meat       Types of
Project Cycle       Year      Persons      Field         Represnted          Status      Objectives   Probems
Preparationthrough       3
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal             10-11/88   2          14            IE,E                    -             -            -
Pre-negotiation       03/89      2          7             IE, E                   -             -            -
Post-Negotiation I    06/89      2          14           IE, LT                   -             -            -
Post-Negotiation II   11-12/89   2          14            IE, LT                  -             -            -
Supervision 1         06/90      2          14            E, IE                    2             2           -
Supervision 2         07/90      1          6             Ext                      2             2           -
Supervision 3         09-10/90    1         10            IE                       2             2           -
Supervision 4        03/91       1         6             E                        2             2            -
Supervision 5         6-7/91     3          14            E, LT, IE                2             2           -
Supervision 6         05/92      4          11            E, LT, C, RE             2             2           -
Supervision 7         03/93      I          II            ES/NRM                   2             2           -
Supervision 8         S/93       1          10            LT                       2             2           -
Supervision 9         11/93      I          7             ES/NRM                   2             2           -
Supervision 10        10-11/94    1         4             ES/NRM                   S             S           -
Supervision 11        10-11/95   3          15            ES/NRM, IE, M&E          S             S           -
Supervision 12        2/96       1          4             Agr.                     S             S           -
Supervision 13        5-6/96     2          6             ESINRM,IE                S            HS           -
Supervision 14        10-11/96   2          7             ES/NRM, IE               S            HS           -
Supervision 15       3/97        2          3             ES/NRM, IE               S            HS           -
Completion            4/97       2          13            ES/NRM, M&E              _             _
S = Satisfactory; HS = Highly Satisfactory
Specialized Staff:         E = Economist; IE = Irrigation Engineer; LT = Land Tenure; ES = Environment
Specialist; NRM = Natural Resource Management; RE = Rural Engineer; C = Credit;
Ext = Extension; M&E = Monitoring and Evaluation; Agr = Agronomist
3    Prior to Pre-appraisal 7 WB missions have visited the country.






Appendix A
BANQUE MONDIALE
PROJET D'AJUSTEMENT ET IVESTISSEMEENT
DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE EN MAURITANIE (PASA)
Credit IDA No 2093
MISSION DE FIN D'EXECUTION DE PROJET
(5-23 avril 1997)
Aide memoire
1.    Une mrission de fm d'execution e!u PASA composee de Messieurs Karir; Oka,
responsable du Projet d'Ajustement du Secteur Rural (PASA) a la Banque Moildiale,
.Mohamcd Ould Tolba, specialiste agricole a la Mission Rdsidente de la Banque a Nouakchott
et Madaroe Annicl; Lachance, consultante, a sejoumd en Maunitanie du 5 au 23 Avril 97. Au
cours de son sj our la mission a travailld en 6troite collaboration avec les cadre . du Ministfte
du Ddveloppement Rural ct de I'Environuement et des autres administrations cc acemecs par
le PASA.
2.    L'exercice a consist6 . ivalLer le travail accompli dans le cadre de la mist en oeuvre
du PASA et les r6sultats et impacts obtenus. Lcs conclusions de la mission sont rdsum6cs ci-
dessous et serQut reprises dans le Rapport de fin d'ex6cution de projet qui sera finalis6 par la
i3anque rmondiale au cours des semaines qui suivent cette mission.
Rappel drs objectifs du PASA
3.    Le Projet etait une operation hybzide comportant un voJet Ajustement et wU volet
lnvcstissement; la composante Ajustement avait pour objectif de mettrc en oeuvw': les
reFormcs envisagdcs dans le cadre de l'Ajustement Structurel a Moyen Terme (A iMTJ. Ces
reformes concemnaient la commorcialisation et les prix des ccr6ales, le credit agrifAle, le
foncier, la r6organisation du MDR et de la SONADER, la rechcrche et la vulgarin Aiion, Le
programme d'investisserment public, l'irrigation, 1'6levage ainsi quc la protection de
I'environnement. L'objectif du volct Investissernent dtait d'aider le Gouvernemert a testcr de
Douvelles tcchniques d'irrigation et de gestion durable des pdrihmtres collectifs.
RWalisations du PASA
Composa?ie 4justement
4.    Commercial_ e          des cjT6ales Les principales mesures prises dana le
domaine de la commercialisation ont Wt (i) la fin de I'achat -a des prix subventioun&s- de la
production domestique par le Commissariat a la S6curit6 Alimentaire (CSA), (ii) (a
fibdralisation des prix de vente et d'achat des c6rdales, (iii) la privatisatioD des ur tls de
transfonnation du riz, (iv) la fin de la subvention aux intrants agricoles (v) la supj .-ession du
moitopole d'importation de niz par la SONTMEX, (vi) la fin de la distribution de 1 aide
'alirmntaire gratuite, sauf dans les cas d'urgence et (vii) la mise cn place d'un syste'nme



2
tarifaire visant a proteger la production de riz tout en cr6ant un clirnat de concurrence entre
production nationale et importations.
5  .  Malgrd toutes ces reformes l'objcctif recherchd de libiralisation de la filiere riz n'a
pas c&  complktement atteint (i) le noibre d'importateurs et donc la concurrence pour
1'iniportation de riz restent limites a cause de la surface financicre qu'exige une telle
op6ration et de la rarct6 des devises, (ii) 1'entente entre les membres du pool et Ic
Gouvermemcnt pour l'achat de la production natioile, bien qu'elle soit salutaire pour les
agriculteurs n'est pas une solution pour le long terme et n'incite pas les producteurs a reduire
lcurs.couts et dtre plus compdtitifs, (iii) le syst6me de bonification des intercts sur les credits
pour I'achad de la production nationale ri'est pas une solution soutenable pour le moyena et lc
aong tennc.
6.    Cirdit  cn 1989 le porte feui]le de la Soci6t6 nationale pour le developpement iural
(SONADER) a etc transfire a l'Union des banques pour le doveloppement (UBD). Celle-ci a
qctroy6 des volumes de prdts importants entre 1989 ct 1992 sans vdrification vdrtabIe de leur
destination et sans exigence d'apurement des prdts deja consentis. Les rdsultats alarmants du
credit agr~cole durant cette p6riode incittrent le Gouvernement et les bailleurs de fonds a
inettre eii placc une structure dc crddit mutualiste a travers la creation de l'Union nationale
des cooperatives agricoles de credit et d'epargne de Mauritanie (IJNCACEM) et ses deux
Cooperatives agricoles de credit et d'6pargac (CACE) du Trarza et du Haut Fleuvc.
7.    L'UTNCACEM a 6t6, des le depart, handicapde par le passif du porte feuille de l'UBD
dont elle aihdrit6. Elle appliqua une rigueur dans le recouvrement des colts qui etait
ndcessaare pour rompre avec les anciennes pratiques du credit agricole de l'UBD et de la
SONADER. Cette rigueur a ren.du le nombre de clients de l'TUNCACEM 6ligibles au cr6dit de
plus on plus reduit pour ne representcr en 1996 quo 40% des gros exploitants priv6s et 15%
des cooperatives. En contre partie il y eu unc nette amdlioration du taux de recouvrement des
prets de campagne qui est passe de 58% en 1994 a 90% en 1996. L'UNCACEM a en 1995
diversifie ses actions par le fnancemenit de la commercialisation du riz mais n'a pas pu
rdpter l'operation en 1996 faute de moyens financiers.
.8    F jcaic: en 1990, un decret (90 020) a 6tte adoptd pour introduire les mesures
suivantes: (i) renforcement de la decentralisation pour l'attribution des terres, (ii) definition
des phases progressivcs de la propriete, (iii) implication syst6matique des populatioxs
concernmes et (iv) s6curisation des droits fonciers des populations locales. Sur le plan
fonctioninel, I'Arr&d 12-206 a fixe les attributions des services charg6s.de la politiiue
fonciere au Minist6re de 1' intcricur (RIviseur foncier), au Ministere du DRE (Bureau foncier)
et au Minist*re des Finances (Direction des dornaines).
9.    Sur ces bases r6glementaires et institutionneUes, une operation test de rigularisation
fonci&re s'est engag6e a partir de 1991 pour I Trar2a-est. Les r6sultats concluant5 de cctte
op6ration Ont conduit lc Gouveniement, appuye par les Bailleurs de fonds, a 6tendre
l'opration de r6gularstion foncire au haut ficuve en 1993 et au Traa-ouest eni 1994 puis
A I'ensemble de la moyenne et haute vallee depuis 1995.
10.   RsiucwationdlS           AE: La SONADER a etd rcstructur6e a deux reprises
durant la p6riode PASA. Ces restructuration ont pcrmis: (i) lc desengagement de la Soci6td



3
de la commercialisation et de la transformation du paddy ainsi que l'arret du recouvrement
des redevances fixes en nature; (ii) le transfert A d'autres op&rateurs des activites de credit,
d'approvisionnement en intrants et 6quipement agricoles airnsi que de la gestion et la
niaintcnance de ces dorniers; (iii) la clarification des missions de I' 6tablissement et une
meilleuro definition de ses modalit6s d'intervention et de r6muniration; (iv) la mise en place
d'un systeme de gestion fmancierc, comuptable et budgetaire informatis6 et l'assainissement
r9nancier du bilaln dc 1'entreprise au 31-12-92, et (v) la diminution de ses effectifs en
nersonnel.
11.   Ets=cturatioa du MDR: LeMDNR a t6 restructur6 cn 1993, suite aune 6tude
finane6e par la CED. Cette restructuration a peris, entre autres, de (i) mnieux prendre en
coinpte la dimcsion Environnrnment du developpement rural, (ii) crder au niveau des Wilayas
de Delgations Rigionales regroupant tous les services du D6veloppemcnt rural; et (iii)
ueux redaployer Ic personnel sur lc terrain.
J 2    Rbcherche. multiplication desscxmences et vulzarisation: Dans le cadre du PASA Um
Plan National de la Recherche Agronomique (PNRA) a dt6 pr6par6 mais n'a pas counu de
suite faute de mnoyens financiers. Un nouveau PNRA a 6te prepare eni 95 comnme composante
du PSA. Ce PNRA va &t-e exccuter dans le cadre du m&ne Projet. Par ailleurs u,L systeme de
production-conmercialisation des semences de riz a et6 mis en place dans le cadre du Projet
de D1velopperent des Semences (PDS) sur financement du FENUIPNUD. Le PDS a mis
aussi en zone pluviale un sysamte de collecte et de stockage amcliore des semences
traditiorneUes. Enfin une Direction de la recherche-vulgarisation-formation (DRFV) a ete
creee au niveau national ainsi que des scrvices rdgionaux de vulgarisation au sein des
DB16gations r6gionales du MDRE.
I  .   Progamme des investissernents publics : afui d'ameiiorer la planification ett le suivi
des investissements ainsi que leur contribution a la croissance de 1' agriculture, la Cellule de
planification (CP) duI MDRE a e reorganisee et appuyec financi6rement dans le c-adrc du
PASA-
14.   Irrigation: des mesurcs visant a am.6l1iorer la viabilite des exploitations agricoles
irrigu6eS ont ete prises : (i) promulgation de l'ordonnance portant code de l'eau , ()i)
e'aboration d'un code des p6rimAtrcs irriguds definissant les riles respectifs de I Etat et des
beneficiaires, (iii) mise A jour du registre des pdim6tres irriguds en 1990, puis en 1994, (iv)
etude apr6s barrages, (v) etudes de redressemnent de p6rimetres et d6but d'un programme de
redrcssement pour ces p6rim&tres cnfin (vi) time amorce de I'application de la nouvelle
po'tique d'intervention de l'Etat en mati6re d'am6nagement hydro-agricoles (infiastructures
du Gouere).
15.   F.  e : Des actions d'organisation des eleveurs dans le cadre d'Associations
Pastorales (AP), disposant pour la plus part de mini-projets de production laitiere et de ddp8ts
de produits v6t&rinaires, ainsi que des investissements en alimentation cn eau ont etd rdalis6s
dans le cadre du Projet Elevage II.
16.   Protection de IEnvironnemene; la Mauritaniie pr6pare, depuis deux ans, uii code de
VL'nvironnement et une Stratdgie environnenmentale avec I'assistance du PNUD daus le cadre
de la Convention sur la ddscrLification.



4
Coposante investissement
17.   LIes actions pilotes dans IC 26rim6tre de Foum-Gleita ont At executees avec
satisfaction et les analyses faites par la SONADER montrent des taux de rentabilit6
&conomtquc cnfre 14 et 24 %. D'autres resultats inmportants ont 6tc enregistres: (i)
organisation en 1994 de 1'Union des coopmratives agricoles de Foun-Gleita (UCAF), devenue
I'lntcrlrocuteur de la SONADER pour la gestion des redevances d'eau et 1'entretien du
Pirimetre;(ii) gestion par l'UCAF d'un fonds de roulenient pour le financernent de la
cam,pagne agricole au profit de ses membres; (iii) relance de la production agricole, en dacIin
cntre 92 et 94. et tenforcexnent de la vulgarisation, (iv) organisation des eleveurs en
association agro-pastorale, formation d'auxiliaires v&ttrinaires en sante aniimale et mise en
place d'une pharmacie v6t6rinaire, (v) organisation des pclheurs en groupos coop6ratifs et
appui a ces groupes en matiere de vulgarisation et d'equipement; (vi) plantation de brises vent
le long des canaux et drains et (vii) amelioration de la fourniture des services de santi
humaine.
Evaluation des resultats
i S.   Compte tenu des objectifs dc depart Lres ambitieux, on peut considerer que les
resultats globaux ancints par le projet sont relativement satisfaisants surtout compte tenu de la
rd6ahit sociale et politique existante. Le projet a eu LU impact tres positif dans la domaine de
la r6forirne fonci6re, assurant un acces plus iSquitable aux moyons de production pour les petits
producteurs, et perriis une reduction du r6le de I'etat dans l'6conomie avec la libdralisation
du commerece des c6r6ales ct des intrants agricoles, la privatisation des unites do production,
et la restructuration de soci-tes publiques telles que la SONADER  Il s'agit IA cependant de
r6sultats interzindiaires car les rdformes appuy6es par le Projet visaient en termes de finalith a
pern-ettre que: (a) le d6vcloppemeat de la production du riz dans le delta devienne
fiscalemnent et dconomiquement viable; (b) le couit de protection initiale soit egalement reparti
entre producLeurs et consommateurs; (c) la valeur ajoutee so it repartie dquitablement; ct (d) le
projet produise des retomb6es positives dans les secteurs aum-es que l'agiculture grace i la
libdralisation complite des activit6s economiques en amont et en aval. Ces objeotifs n'ont
pas et6 atteints: d'une manirre globale, la production rizicole n'a pas encore atteil't la viabilit6
economiquc escomptee et la protection dtu secteur agricole est encore lcevde. TI y a eu
cependant u-ne nette tendAnce a I'amnlioration avec plusieurs perimetres qui degagent des
mnarges beneficiaires satisfaisantes. ll y a eu aussi un effort de recherche de solutions
alternatives avec un debuLt de diversification des cultures et d'integration de I'Ielvage, et dela
sylviculture pour rendre les investissements et les exploitations plus rentables. 11 est clair que
le processus est bien cngagd et dans la bonne direction, mais avance plus lentement que
prevu II est cvident aussi que les personnes et groupemeiits pratiquant I'irrigation pour la
Dremi&re fois ne pouvaient pas tous rTussir: un processus de silection doit naturellemcnt se
faire et il cst en train de s'op6rer. II cst donc un peu 16t pour faire des pronostics mais si le
Gouvemement poursuit les efforts iiiiti6s au cours de la p6riode dc mise en ocuvre du PASA,
il y a de fortes raisons de croire quc Ic resu1tat final sera positif.



5
Leonoscl apprises
i9.    Lcs principales le9ons tirees de cc projets sont les suivantes:
(a)    I'ajustement est uin processus continu qui ne peut se limiter a la durce de vie d'un
Aecord de credit Des dispositions pardculieres doiveut donc trc prises pour que
gouvenement et bailleurs de fonds puissont assurer cette continuitd;
(b)   ls rdformes et autres mesures entrant dans le cadre des PASA n'ont de sons que s'il
existe des actions d'investissement auxqucllcs ces reformes sont destindrs, sinon ces
rvformes ne sontjamais appliqu&es. Dc la meme mani6ro, des actions
d'iavestissement, m6me techniquement bien con9ues, ont tres peu de chances de
reussir et durer si ellks nc sont pas accompagnees ou pric6dies par des mesures
d'ajustcmcnt qui pernettent de crier Uli environnement propice. Sanis ces rcformes,
les investissements ne sont pas viabics. Les operAtions bybrides constituent ainsi tin
tres bon instrument d'ailleurs souvent ignore;
(c)    le desengagement de l'Etat de certaines fonctions doit etre bien pensE et planifih ot doit
0tre execut6 de mani6re a permemre aux nouveaux op6rateurs d'assurer efficacement la
releve. Le disengagement de l'Etat n'implique pas l'absence de 1'Etat dans son role de
rdgulawur et de gardien des droits et libert6s dcs institutions qui vont le rempler; .
(d)    la pleine implication des b4n6ficiaires tout au long de processus ainsi quo dans la
gestiot) des inoyans de production est une condition.de sucts pour toute operation
(gestion rationnelle de la ressource eau, gestion ct entretien des infrastructures, credit.,
commercialisation, etc.); et
(e)    dans le contexte actuel, la production de riz cn iurigue' en Mauritanie pour-des besoins
dc consommation nationale (essentiellement riz brisk) ne pout tre 6conomiquement
viable que si clc est associce a d'autres cultures irrigu6es (diversification) et si iI y a
int6gration de ce .cystLmc de production au reste du sectcur agricole.



Appendix B
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SUMMARY OF THE COMPLETION REPORT
OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2093-MAU)
(Translation of original document in French)
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The Agricultural Sector Adjustment/Investment Project (ASAIP) is a hybrid project
consisting of a sectoral adjustment component and an investment component. Its adjustment
component is a follow-up to the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) completed in 1988, whereas
the investment component can be considered the follow-up and consolidation of the Gorgol Noir
Irrigation Project (Cr. 1068-MAU). In connection with the preparation of the Medium Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Programn (MTSA, 1989-1991), a set of institutional and general
policy measures were identified. Of these, a number of core measures were judged crucial to the
achievement of the ASAIP's objectives. These were selected for close monitoring and became
the object of a matrix that was updated by each joint supervision mission.
II.    OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS OF THE PROGRAM
2.    The adjustment component was intended to support the MTSA  undertaken by
Government, and in particular: (i) the deepening and broadening of liberalization of cereals
marketing and pricing (marketing and pricing component); (ii) the creation of an institutional
and financial capacity in the area of agricultural credit (agricultural credit component); (iii)
reforms intended to improve land tenure legislation and administration (land tenure component);
(iv) a program to improve the efficiency of the public sector by restructuring SONADER
(SONADER reorganization component), by improving public investment in agriculture, and by
increasing the operational efficiency of the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
(MDRE) (MDRE reorganization component and PIP); (v) the strengthening and adaptation of
research and extension structures (research and extension component); (vi) measures intended to
make stockraising less vulnerable to drought (livestock component); and (viii) the design of
sustainable environment protection activities (environmental component.)
3.    The project's investment component had the following objectives: (i) increase net profits
of the farmers of Foum-Gleita by maintaining the dam and the irrigation and drainage networks
on the 1,950 net hectares of equipped parcels; (ii) bring under cultivation some 1,500 hectares of
flood recession land located essentially around the dam reservoir; (iii) promote agro-sylvo-
pastoral activities and the integration of agriculture and stockraising in the project area; (iv)
protect the environment; (v) conduct research and extension; (vi) develop a supporting
infrastructure; (vii) and implement a set of social measures (dispensary, schools, drinking water
supply).



Appendix B
Page 2 of 3
HI.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.    The reforms planned under the adjustment component were carried out. In particular: (i)
the Government withdrew from the cereals subsector, allowing private operators to take over,
and prices were liberalized; (ii) a mutualist agricultural credit structure was created, and now
manages its portfolio according to strict guidelines and has achieved rates of recovery on the
order of 90%; (iii) at the institutional and regulatory level, essential groundwork was laid in the
area of land tenure and, depending on the region, the registration of irrigated lands is either
completed or underway; (iv) the MRDE was reorganized and decentralized, and its Planning
Unit became operational; (v) SONADER, the agency in charge of developing irrigated
agriculture in the Senegal River Valley, was restructured, its costs (especially for payroll) were
greatly reduced, its management was streamlined, and it will henceforth be financed on the basis
of payment for services rendered for a diverse clientele; (vi) research and extension were
redefined in the context of a National Plan for Agronomic Research (NPAR) and under the
Agricultural Services Project (ASP); (vii) regarding the livestock component, the project helped
create a stockraising system that is less vulnerable to drought, through pilot activities in
environmental protection and pasture and water point management; training of responsible
pastoral associations; and, in particular, determination of financial costs of disease prevention
and protection activities; (viii) regarding the environment, the project's impact is felt more in the
institutional area and in terms of expanded knowledge, rather than in terms of concrete
achievements.
5.    The investment component yielded concrete and substantial results as far as the dam and
irrigated perimeter of Foum-Gleita (1,950 ha) are concerned. The following advances are
especially noteworthy: (i) improvement and maintenance works on the perimeter; (ii) the
creation of a rational water distribution system and its implementation with a view to minimizing
wastage; (iii) a clear definition of the division of labor between SONADER and the cooperatives;
(iv) agricultural production which -- after a temporary decline during the 1992-94 period, due to
climatic fluctuations, pest infestations and the unavailability of seasonal credit -- became
diversified and achieved satisfactory levels; (v) the extension/training function, which was
reorganized and made more efficient due to increased monitoring by extension agents and the
application of the "training and visit" approach; (vi) farmer organization, which was
strengthened through the reorganization and increased accountability of cooperatives, which are
henceforth responsible for input supply and for the gathering, if not the marketing, of their
products; (vii) fishing, which was organized within the dam's reservoir, with steadily increasing
catches; (viii) in the environmental area measures were taken to fight dune encroachment and
wind erosion, especially by means of windbreaks; and (ix) in the area of health and social
infrastructures, significant results were achieved, including a reduction in the incidence of
waterborne diseases, and the rehabilitation of dispensaries and schools.
IV.   GENERAL ASSESSMENT OF THE PERFORMANCE OF BOTH PARTIES
6.    The Mauritanian Government is pleased with the collaboration of all the donors who
supported the implementation of the ASAIP and who were a force for coherence and efficiency.
The Government honored all its commitments, despite the continuous updating of the initial
matrix of measures, which had some consequences for the project's steering and implementation
capacity.



Appendix B
Page 3 of 3
V.    SUSTAINABILITY
7.    The ASAIP made it possible to lay the groundwork for a policy of liberalization and
sustainable development of agricultural activities, through the formulation of a number of policy
and strategy documents drawn up for various subsectors. The ASAIP was mainly of an
institutional nature, however, and cannot be considered a truly national rural development
program. The recovery achieved thus far is still too fragile and must be considered a first stage
in a longer term process. This is why quick support for it is envisaged in the form of
interventions tackling the problems of the three main ecological zones (Senegal River Valley
(PDIAIM), rainfed zone (RNRMP), and arid zone (Oasis 1I Project)), and by means of horizontal
interventions in specific subsectors (livestock policy, environmental protection program) or in
specific functional areas (Agricultural Services Project for the research/training/extension triad).
8.    Concerning the adjustment component, the ASAIP made it possible, despite delays and
flaws in implementation, to make noticeable progress in the agricultural sector. In order to
maintain the spirit of the ASAIP, project activities have been pursued beyond the project's
official 1990-94 implementation period by: (i) continuing efforts at liberalizing the marketing
and pricing of cereals; (ii) improving the methods of implementing land tenure reform; (iii)
continuing the decentralization of MRDE and the reorganization of SONADER; (iv) stepping up
the process of reorganizing socio-professional organizations and making them more accountable;
and (v) strengthening the extension and research components under the Agricultural Services
Project. In addition, the Government is determined to pursue the initiatives begun under the
ASAIP through a number of investment operations, such as the PDIAIM (now under
preparation), so that adjustment measures such as those undertaken in connection with the
ASAIP can be accompanied and consolidated by investment programs.
VI.   CONCLUSION
9.     The ASAIP, including the post-ASAIP phase, achieved concrete and highly useful
results that should contribute to the harmonious development of the agricultural sector,
especially in the institutional and regulatory areas. Nevertheless, many initiatives begun under
the ASAIP need to be pursued and consolidated, and numerous institutional and regulatory
accomplishments need to be reviewed and updated in the light of current sectoral and
international trends. However, it is now time to make the transition from a policy of adjustment
to a development mentality that encompasses: (i) an economic rationale (ensuring the viability
and profitability of existing structures); (ii) a social rationale (consolidating and fostering the
gains in agricultural sector revenues and in the sector's capacity for intervention); and (iii) an
environmental rationale (laying the groundwork for sustainable development.)
10.   With this in mind, the agricultural development strategy will henceforth be based upon
the following four basic themes:
- helping ensure food security;
- improving farmers' incomes and rural employment, as well as reducing poverty;
- fostering the integration of agriculture into the national and international markets;
- protecting and conserving natural resources in the interest of sustainable development.
Nouakchott, June 1997.
Ministry of Planning



Appendix C
REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE     Honneur - Fratemite - Justice
MINISTERE DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
ET DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
PROJET D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE
(Cr6dit 2093)
Juin 1997






ABREVIATIONS ET SIGLES
ACOPAM        Appui Associatif et Cooperatif aux Initiatives de Developpement a la Base
dans le Sahel
ASMT          Ajustement Sectoriel a Moyen Terme
AVB           Agent de Vulgarisation de Base
CACE          Cooperative Agricole de Credit et d'Epargne
CAIE          Centrale d'Achat des Intrants d'Elevage
CAS           Strategie d'Assistance au Pays
CSA           Commissariat a la Securite Alimentaire
CNED          Conseil National de l'Environnement - Developpement
CNERV         Centre National d'Elevage et de Recherche Vterinaire
CNRADA        Centre National de Recherche Agronomique et de Developpement Agricole
CP            Cellule de Planification (MDRE)
CSC           Contre-saison chaude
CSF           Contre-saison froide
DEAR          Direction de l'Environnement et de l'Amenagement Rural (MDRE)
DRAP          Direction du Developpement des Ressources Agro-Pastorales (MDRE)
DRFV          Direction de la Recherche, Vulgarisation et Formation (MDRE)
EPA           Etablissement Public a Caractere Administratif
GMP           Groupe motopompe
ha            hectare
IDA           Intemational Development Association
kg            Kilogramme
MDRE          Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Environnement
OMC           Organisation Mondiale du Commerce
PANE          Plan d'Action National pour l'Environnement
PASA          Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole
PDIAIM        Programme de Developpement Integre de l'Agriculture Irriguee en
Mauritanie
PDS           Projet de Developpement des Semences
PGRNP         Programme de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en Zone Pluviale
PME           Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
PMLCD         Programme Multisectoriel de Lutte Contre la Desertification
PIP           Programme d'Investissements Prioritaires
PNRA          Plan National de la Recherche Agricole
PSA           Projet des Services Agricoles
SONADER    Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole
SONIMEX    Societe Nationale d'Import-Export
t             tonne
UBD           Union des Banques de Developpement
UCAF          Union des Cooperatives Agricoles de Foum-Gleita
UM            Ouguiya
UNCACEM    Union Nationale des Cooperatives de Credit et d'Epargne de Mauritanie






TABLE DES MATIERES
fun
I. INTRODUCTION ...........................................................                                                                            1
II. OBJECTIFS ET VOLETS DU PROGRAMME ...........................................................1I
A. Composante Ajustement .........................................................I
B. Composante Investissement .............................................1............
III. REALISATION  DES  OBJECTIFS  ...........................................................2
A. Composante Ajustement .........................................................2
1. Commercialisation et prix ........................................................2
2. Credit agricole ........................................................4
3. Le Regime foncier .........................................................5
4. Reorganisation de la SONADER .........................................................7
5. Reorganisation du MDRE  et Programme d'Investissement Prioritaire (PIP) ...............................8
6.  Recherche et vulgarisation ........................................................ 10
7. Elevage ........................................................                                                                      11
8. Environnement ........................................................                                                                12
B. Composante d'investissement ......................................................... 13
1. Travaux d'amelioration et d'entretien ........................................................ 13
2. Production agricole ......................................................... 13
3. Vulgarisation - formation ........................................................ 14
4. Organisation paysanne ........................................................                                                        15
5. Recherche ........................................................                                                                    16
6. Elevage ........................................................                                                                      16
7. Peche ........................................................                                                                        17
8. Environnement ........................................................                                                                17
9.  Sante et infrastnuctures sociales ........................................................ 18
10. Assistance technique .........................................................                                                      18
IV. APPRECIATION GENERALE DES PERFORMANCES DES DEUX PARTIES ............................ 19
V. DURABILITE ...........................................................                                                                             19
VI. CONCLUSION ...........................................................                                                                           19






I. INTRODUCTION
Le "Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole" (PASA) est un projet mixte comportant une composante
d'ajustement sectoriel et une composante d'investissement. Concernant la composante d'ajustement, it fait
suite au "Credit d'ajustement structurel" acheve en 1988, tandis que pour la composante d'investissement, it
peut &re considere comme la poursuite et consolidation du "Projet d'irrigation du Gorgol Noir" (Credit 1068-
MAU) qui, entre 1980 et 1987, avait pour objet la construction/achevement du barrage de Fourn-Gleita et
l'amenagement, en aval du barrage, d'un perimetre irrigue de 2.000 ha, suivi de l'installation de 1.100
familles sur 600 ha acheves (objectifs reduits en cours de projet).
Dans le cadre de la preparation du programme d'ajustement a moyen terme (1989 - 1991) du secteur agricole
(AMTS), un ensemble de mesures de nature institutionnelle et de politique generale ont e  identifiees. Ces
mesures ont fait l'objet de Communications adoptees en Conseil des Ministres, en mai 1987 et le 15.06.1988.
Parmi ces mesures, et dans le cadre du credit IDA, un noyau de mesures jugees essentielles a la realisation
des objectifs du PASA a ete identifie pour &re suivi de pres, et a conditionne les deblocages des tranches de
credit d'ajustement, objet d'une matrice des mesures remise a jour a l'occasion de chaque mission conjointe de
supervision.
Le dernier decaissement du volet institutionnel ajustement a e effectue en aouit 1994, ce qui marque, en
principe, la fin du PASA, bien que la phase posterieure (dite aussi post PASA) puisse &re consideree comme
une phase de renforcement et de consolidation avec une extension des mesures a l'ensemble du territoire.
Quant au volet investissement, les decaissements se sont prolonges jusqu'au 31.12.1996.
II. OBJECTIFS ET VOLETS DU PROGRAMME
A. Composante Ajustement
La composante Ajustement devait apporter un appui a I'ASMT entrepris par le Gouvernement, en particulier
elle devait appuyer: i) I'approfondissement et 1'extension de la liberalisation du marche et des prix des
cereales (volet commercialisation et prix), ii) la mise en place d'une capacite institutionnelle et financiere
pour le credit agricole (volet credit agricole), iii) les reformes destinees a ameliorer la Iegislation et
l'administration en matiere fonciere (volet foncier), iv) un programme d'amelioration de l'efficacite du secteur
public en restructurant la SONADER (volet reorganisation de la SONADER), en ameliorant les
investissements publics dans l'agriculture et en augmentant l'efficacite operationnelle du MDRE (volet
r6organisation du MDRE et PIP), v) le renforcement et l'adaption des structures de recherche et de
vulgarisation (volet recherche et vulgarisation), vi) des mesures destinees a rendre l'elevage moins vulnerable
aux secheresses (volet elevage), et vii) la mise au point des activites de protection de 1'environnement
durables (volet environnement). Quant au volet irrigation, il a e  integre dans la composante Investissement
du PASA.
B. Composante Investissement
Cette composante du Programme avait notamment pour objectif: i) d'augmenter les recettes nettes des
exploitants de Foum-Gleita par l'entretien du barrage et des reseaux d'irrigation et de drainage sur les 1.950
ha nets de terres amenagees, ii) la mise en exploitation de 1.500 ha de terres de decrue, essentiellement sur le
pourtour de la retenue du barrage, iii) la promotion des activites de production agro-sylvo-pastorale et



-2 -
I'integration de l'agriculture et de l'elevage dans la zone du projet, iv) la protection du milieu 6cologique, v) la
recherche et la vulgarisation, vi) le developpernent d'une infrastructure d'appui vii) ainsi qu'une s6rie de
mesures a caractere social (dispensaire, 6coles, approvisionnement en eau potable).
III. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS
A. Composante Ajustement
1. Commercialisation et prix
a) Obiectifs
Pour atteindre l'objectif prioritaire d'augmenter la production nationale de cereales, la filiere cerealiere devait
etre liberalisee, notamment en dereglementant la commercialisation et en lib6rant les prix des produits et
intrants. Cette lib6ralisation de la filiere devait se traduire, en particulier, par i) le retrait progressif des
op6rateurs publics au profit des operateurs prives, retrait accompagne par la mise en place d'une politique de
comrnercialisation efficiente assurant la promotion du secteur prive grace a une r6mun6ration adequate de ses
services, ii) la mise en place d'une politique d'incitation au secteur priv6 pour l'amener A participer non
seulement a la production mais aussi aux autres activites en amont et en aval de la production, et iii)
I'adoption d'une politique des prix au producteur suffisamment incitatrice accompagnee d'un systeme de
protection de la production nationale a travers des droits a l'importation afin de favoriser le d6veloppement
du secteur prive a tous les niveaux de la filiere tout en limitant les effets negatifs sur le consommateur.
b) Realisations et rksultats obtenus
bl) Filiere riz
Los unites de transformation detenues par le secteur public (SONADER, CSA) ont ete privatis6es, le
monopole d'importation de la SONIMEX supprim6 a compter du ler janvier 1991 et l'autorisation d'achat
par le CSA "aux petits agriculteurs enclaves encadres par la SONADER" d'abord limit6e a 6.000 t a partir
de la campagne 1991/92, puis abolie completement en 1994. Au 31.12.1996, l'intervention de l'Etat se
limitait a:
* fixer un prix d'orientation du paddy pour une qualite donnee et ceci apres concertation entre
inmportateurs, transformateurs et agriculteurs;
* proteger le marche national par un systeme de prix de ref6rence et de prelevements tarifaires
forfaitaires au poids de produit importe. La valeur mercuriale mise en place en janvier 1991 a Wt6
actualisee chaque debut de trimestre jusqu'a ce que la monnaie nationale soit devalu6e (dernier
trimestre 1992). Depuis cette date, la valeur mercuriale n'a ete revisee qu'a deux reprises janvier
1994 et janvier 1995). Au 31.12.1996, la taxe a l'importation sur le riz appliquee dorenavant etait
de 16,017 UM/kg;
* inciter les differents intervenants dans la filiere a s'organiser pour assurer la comrnercialisation de
la production nationale. C'est dans ce cadre que, le 28.02.1993, les imnportateurs ont sign6 un
accord cadre donnant lieu a la creation d'une structure informelle appelee "pool des importateurs"
ayant pour chef de file la SONIMEX. Ce pool avait deux objectifs fondamentaux:
* r6gulariser les importations et arriver a une adequation entre la production nationale et les
quantites importees, tout importateur s'engageant a acheter une part de la production locale,



- 3 -
acheter le paddy local a un prix garanti pour une qualite donn6e, assurer la transformation et
l'ecoulement du riz produit. Au titre des campagnes d'intervention du pool, les resultats ont e  les
suivants:
1993/94 quantite 15.378 t prix moyen 26 UM/kg valeur 400 mio UM
1994/95          12.940 t           31,5 UM/kg        404 mio UM
1995/96          16.200 t           40 UM/kg          648 mio UM
1996/97          25.600 t           42 UM/kg         1.075 mio UM
b2) Autres cereales (ble. sor-ho, mil. maes)
Jusqu'en 1990, le deficit cerealier etait couvert essentiellement par les dons en aide alimentaire. Les
importations etaient limitees en ble destine a l'industrie locale (semoule, pates) et croissantes en farine
destin6e aux boulangeries. A partir de 1991, les effets conjugues de la secheresse et la baisse de l'aide
alimnentaire ont entraine des importations massives de ble de la part du secteur commercial prive et la
m6vente des dons d'aide alimentaire destines a la commercialisation. Pour r6tablir une concurrence loyale,
mais surtout pour un ecoulement sur le marche des cereales traditionnelles, le Gouvernement avait mis en
place pour le ble en grain, a compter du ler juillet 1992, le meme principe de protection (valeur mercuriale)
que pour le riz.
c) Difficultes rencontrees
Si la filiere cerealiere se caracterise aujourd'hui par l'absence d'intervention de l'Etat sur le marche int6rieur,
elle reste confrontee a un certain nombre de difficultes essentielles:
Mevente de l'aide alimentaire dont par ailleurs le volume a diminue significativement;
* Fluctuation des prix des cereales traditionnelles selon les saisons et les annees et des difficult6s
d'6coulement des regions excedentaires en raison, notamment, de l'insuffisant developpement du
reseau routier;
* Absence de capacit6s de stockage et des couts de transports interieurs eleves,
* Caractere informel du pool des importateurs;
d) Persgectives
II s'agira de:
* Am6liorer le r6seau routier et reduire les couits de transport en stimulant la concurrence dans le
domaine des transports;
* Mettre en place un observatoire des filieres agro-alimentaires apte a suivre l'evolution des prix et
des flux de tous les produits agricoles. Celui-ci foumira egalement des informations aux acteurs
economiques et constituera le cadre de concertation Etat - prive necessaire et conforme a un cadre
liberal;
* Developper les unites de collecte, de stockage, de conditionnemnent et de transformation pour
assurer des debouches flables aux producteurs, ameliorer l'efficacite des filieres, approvisionner
r6guli6rement les marches a des prix abordables et en produits de qualite;
* Inciter a la cr6ation d'organisations professionnelles de producteurs qui prennent en charge les
activites a l'aval de la production et ben6ficiant de la valeur ajoutee qui peut en decouler;
* R6partir de facon plus equitable la valeur ajoutee de chaque filiere entre les differents operateurs;



-4 -
Etudier l'impact reel du systeme de tarification decoulant du respect des engagements pris dans le
cadre de l'OMC. Cette etude devrait deboucher sur des recommandations en matiere d'appuis
appropries A la filiere cerealiere pour garantir sa perennite dans un contexte de competitivite et
d'efficacite.
2. Credit agricole
a) Obiectifs
L'objectif du Gouvernement defini dans la Lettre de politique agricole de 1988 etait, a l'horizon 1991, de
mettre en place un systeme national de credit agricole, dote de I'autonomie financiere et de la personnalite
juridique, destine a promouvoir et a accompagner l'efforts des exploitants agricoles prives et ceux du systeme
cooperatif. Au moment de la preparation du PASA, des operations ponctuelles de credit agricole etaient
menees par deux institutions differentes, la SONADER et l'UBD (Union des Banques de Developpement),
dans un environnement institutionnel relativement peu experimente pour repondre aux besoins des differents
types d'exploitants agricoles et en l'absence d'un cadre reglementaire et financier appropri6. Par consequent,
il s'agissait de mettre en place un systeme bancaire viable a l'appui des secteurs prive et collectif
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Le portefeuille SONADER a e transfere a l'UBD en 1989 conformement aux directives du PASA. Forte
des orientations politiques et des moyens financiers mis en place par l'Etat et differents bailleurs de fonds,
l'UBD a developp6, de maniere exponentielle, pour les campagnes 89/90, 90/91 et 91/92, les attributions de
prets sans mise en place d'une politique de recouvrement coherente et rigoureuse. Des performances
alarmantes (taux de recouvrement de 46%) et des retards pris dans la restructuration de l'institution de 1990
a 1992 ont finalement amend le Gouvemernent A decider, en mai 1992, la creation d'une structure mutualiste,
sous forme de deux cooperatives agricoles de credit et d'epargne (CACE Trarza/Rosso et Haut
Fleuve/Kaedi), d'une Union Nationale des Coop6ratives Agricoles de Credit et d'Epargne de Mauritanie
(UNCACEM/Nouakchott), ainsi que la inise sur pied d'un Comite de Pilotage. Un cadre reglementaire et
financier etait mis en place en decembre 1992 et les procedures comptables et financieres ont Wt6 adoptees
par la BCM en 1993, date de debut des activites de l'UNCACEM et des CACE. Cependant, le redressement
financier des exploitations en impayes dans le portefeuille de l'ex-UBD s'est revele un echec, le taux de
recouvrement des nouveaux prets consentis aux clients redresses ainsi que le recouvrement des dettes
anterieures sont quasi nuls.
Depuis 1994/95, l'UNCACEM poursuit ses activites avec les seuls clients en regle dans le remboursement de
leurs ech6ances (160 sur 700 au depart). ll sen est suivie une baisse du nomnbre de societaires eligibles et des
accords de prets, mettant beaucoup d'agriculteurs dans l'impossibilite d'entamer la campagne agricole ou les
obligeant de trouver d'autres sources de credit. En contrepartie, on enregistre une nette amelioration du taux
de recouvrement qui passe de 58% en 1994 a 75% en 1995 et 90% en 1996.
Une procedure generale de recouvrement elaboree en 1994 et un systeme de suivi permettant d'identifier et de
situer les exploitations beneficiaires des credits (operationnel en 1997) montre levolution favorable du cadre
institutionnel et juridique du credit agricole. L'audit externe des exercices 93, 94 et 95 realise en 1996
confirine que l'ensemble des textes produits par l'UNCACEM et les techniques utilisees lui ont permis
d'arriver a un bon niveau d'organisation administrative et comptable.



- 5 -
Le volume de prts octroyes est pass6 de 273 millions UM en 1992/93 A 1,117 milliards UM en 1996/97.
Malgre ces bons r6sultats financiers, lobjectif d'un systene de cr6dit viable, destin6 a promouvoir l'ensemble
des exploitations agricoles individuelies et collectives n'est pas encore atteint. En effet, du point de vue des
b6neficiaires du credit, le nombre de societaires eligibles au credit est en forte diminution (le nombre de prets
court terme est pass6 de 467 en 1993/94 A 159 en 1996/97) et la r6partition cr6dits collectifs/individuels qui
etait a 50/50 en 1992/93, a atteint 75% d'individuels et 25% de collectifs en 1996/97. Le probleme de
financement des groupements (ou des petits exploitants) reste donc pose en 1997.
c) Difficult6s rencontrees et Dersuectives
Le credit agricole reste soumis a un certain nombre de contraintes panni lesquelles on peut citer:
* le taux de recouvrement, bien quen nette progression, ne permet pas encore de garantir la
perennite du systeme de credit agricole,
* les ressources adaptees aux besoins reels et croissants de financement du secteur (long terme
destines a la rehabilitation et lextension des perimetres, court et moyen terme destines a la
diversification de la production, a la collecte, au stockage, a la transformation et a la
commercialisation) ne peuvent durablement etre finances par des appuis ext6rieurs,
- le financement d'une monoculture telle que le riz demeure extremement risqu6,
un cadre institutionnel encore fortement centralise ne peut r6pondre aux besoins reels d'exercice
de la solidarite,
- des couts de recouvrement et d'operation de l'UNCACEM, fix6s en principe a 5/o, sont encore
trop eleves.
Ainsi, les objectifs etablis par le Gouvemement en matiere de credit sont les suivants:
- appui au recouvrement total des prts accordes,
* renforcement institutionnel de l'UNCACEM (sa d6centralisation, la constitution de ressources
propres par la collecte de l'epargne, le renforcement des capacit6s humaines et l'appui aux
organisations professionnelles),
* 1'extension des produits bancaires (notamment credit de conmmercialisation plut6t que cr6dit de
campagne, approche globale de l'exploitation et de sa rentabilit6),
* amdlioration de l'environnement de l'institution (des exploitations viables, des debouches fiables,
des infrastructures routieres et hydrauliques operationnelles),
* mise en oeuvre dun systeme mutuel d'assurances et de garantie de pr&s (PME agricoles hors
UNCACEM).
3. Le Regime foncier
a) Obiectifs
Le developpement considerable de l'irrigation par le secteur prive a ete rendu possible, en partie, au cours des
ann6es 1985 - 1988, par la distribution de terres en application de l'Ordonnance de r6forme fonciere de 1983
(N 83.127) et de son Decret d'application (N 84.009), avec pres de 35.000 ha distribu6s, dont 8.000 ha
amnages jusqu'en fin 1988.
Toutefois, faute d'un cadre r6glementaire precis et de services administratifs specialises, les occupations de
terrain se sont souvent faites de facon anarchique et sur simple octroi par les autorit6s territoriales d'un droit



d'occupation pr6caire et revocable d'une duree d'un an. Cette situation etait potentiellement grave. C'est
pourquoi, le volet foncier a fait l'objet d'une attention particuliere dans le cadre du PASA et des
ameliorations substantielles devaient ere apportees dans I'application de la reforme fonciere en vue de niieux
contr6ler le d6veloppement rapide de l'occupation des terres dans les regions agricoles productives, garantir
I'attribution equitable des terres, inciter a leur mise en valeur et enregistrer les droits fonciers, dans 1'esprit
d'un regime de droits fonciers garantis.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Dans le cadre du PASA, au niveau institutionnel et reglementaire, le Decret 90.020 (qui abrogeait et
remplacait le D6cret 84.009) a permis d'introduire plusieurs mesures: i) le renforcement de ta decentralisation
pour les attributions, ii) la definition de phases progressives d'accession a la propriete, iii) l'implication
systematique des populations concernmes et iv) la securisation des droits fonciers des populations locales. Les
dispositions pr6vues par ce Decret ont e  detailles et precisees au fur et a mesure des besoins par des
Arretes et des Circulaires (27 au total), au cours de la periode 1992/93, notamment: i) la notion d'espace
vital des agglomerations rurales (1991), ii) la tenue de registres des terres (1990), et iii) les modalites de
presentation et de consultation des populations locales.
Sur le plan fonctionnel, lArre&  N 12.206 de 1990 a fixe les attributions des services charges de la politique
foncicre, notanmment le Ministere de l'Int6rieur (Reviseur), le MDRE (Bureau des Affaires Foncieres) et le
Ministere des Finances (Domaines). De meme a ete cr66e, en 1989, un Comite interminist6riel charge du
foncier et de l'Apres-barrages, qui a pour attribution, en particulier, d'examiner et d'adopter les schemas des
structures foncieres.
Sur ces bases reglementaires et institutionnelles c'est engagee, A partir de 1991, une operation test de
r6gularisation des terres irriguees et mises en valeur dans le Trarza Est. Cette operation, conduite avec
pragmatisme, a demontre l'inter& d'une regularisation fonciere, la faisabilite de l'action et l'applicabilite des
textes. Ce qui a conduit les autorites nationales, avec l'appui des bailleurs de fonds, a etendre la
r-organisation fonciere d'abord au Gorgol, en avril 1993, et au Trarza Ouest, en janvier 1994, puis a
1'ensemble de la moyenne et haute vallee, depuis 1995. Au 31.12.1996, les demandes couvraient 39.594 ha
au Trarza, dont 27% pour les perimetres collectifs (176 exploitations) et 73% pour les operateurs prives
(648 exploitations). Par ailleurs, 15.354 ha ont ete regularis6s pour une superficie moyenne de 40 ha, 23
r6serves foncieres classees (17.700 ha), 35 espaces vitaux (1.619 ha) et 3 forets classees (975 ha) pour un
total de 35.648 ha de superficies regularisees.
c) Difficultes rencontr&es et DersDectives
La solution de la question fonciere a fait des progres constants ces dernieres annees malgre certaines
difficultes et lenteurs rencontr6es, par exemple:
*  la n6cessaire regularisation de l'etat civil des demandeurs, la necessaire formation et vulgarisation
pr6alables des cadres techniques, des administrations et des populations. De gros efforts en
matiere de sensibilisation restent a faire;
* A ce jour, seules les terres irriguees (perimrtres) peuvent faire l'objet de demande de
r6gularisation, or les populations utilisent d'autres terres egalernent affectees par le r6gime du
Fleuve (d6crue);



- 7 -
* Ia mise en application de la loi fonciere conduit a l'emergence d'un marche foncier, la terre
devenant un bien echangeable et transmissible. Une attention particuliere (enregistrement,
contr6les, textes r6glementaires) doit y etre apportee par le Gouvemement;
* Ia regularisation, sous forme collective ou individuelle, devrait faire l'objet d'analyse fine en terme
de comportement differencie au niveau de la mise en valeur de la terre; un titre collectif est
pertinent s'il y a coexistence entre des unites sociales;
* 1'extension de la reforme fonciere dans la vallee aux terres autres que celles reservees a
l'irrigation, de mene que dans la zone pluviale, reste a mettre en oeuvre; de gros efforts en
matiere de sensibilisation seront necessaires, des moyens humains et materiels restent a mettre en
oeuvre.
C'est pourquoi, cette action devra s'inscrire dans la duree en faisant porter leffort sur l'arndlioration du
dispositif existant pour reellement atteindre les objectifs traces, et sur une approche pragmatique associant
etroiternent les populations concernees.
4. RWorganisation de la SONADER
a) Obiectifs
Cre6e en 1975 et con,ue commne principal artisan de la promotion du developpement de l'irrigud dans la
Valle, la SONADER a connu des dysfonctionnements essentiellement dus i) a l'ambigute des missions qui
lui etaient confiees, ii) a la precarite des modes de financement de son fonctionnement et des charges
r6currentes de ses projets, iii) a la configuration de sa structure essentiellement determiinde par les projets et
iv) par un environnement peu incitatif marque par l'absence d'une politique agricole globale et coherente.
C'est pourquoi, dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du PASA, la Societe a fait l'objet de mesures particulieres
visant: i) le recentrage de ses missions autour des activites d'ingenierie, de conseil agricole et de suivi-
6valuation, ii) la rationalisation de ses interventions et leur coordination avec celles des autres intervenants,
iii) son desengagemnent complet de ses activites peripheriques (credit, fourniture d'intrants, transformation du
paddy, etc) afin de r6duire son cout de fonctionnement tout en favorisant la promotion d'operateurs
specialis6s, iv) I'amelioration de son equilibre financier et la reduction des charges qu'elle represente pour
l'Etat et v) l'accroissement de sa productivite et de son efficacite operationnelle.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Durant la periode du PASA et post PASA, la realisation de la quasi totalite des mesures d'ajustement a
permis d'atteindre des resultats appreciables dans les domaines suivants:
* DPknag ement: i) transfert effectif de l'activit6 cr6dit agricole aux institutions financieres sp6cialisees, ii)
transfert de l'activite approvisionnenent en intrants et equipements agricoles aux foumisseurs prives et
organisations socioprofessionnelles, iii) transfert de la gestion et maintenance du materiel agricole
(tracteurs, GMP) au secteur prive, iv) vente des rizeries de Boghd et Kaedi et v) desengagement de la
conmnercialisation et arret du recouvrement des redevances en nature (paddy).
* Viabilit6 financiere: i) allegement considerable des charges de structures (masse salariale, fonctionnement
courant), ii) recettes generees par la maitrise d'oeuvre particuliere et diversification des ressources
financi6res par la p6netration du marche d'6tude et de contr8le des travaux, et enfin iii) determination d'un
systeme de financement du fonctionnement de la Societe base sur la remuneration des prestations de



- 8 -
service pour le compte d'une clientele diversifiee et approuve par l'Etat sous forme d'une Lettre de
mission.
*R6orfanisation inteme: restructuration par etapes successives basee sur plusieurs etudes, notamnent sur
les plans suivants: i) desengagement de toutes fonctions marchandes et reduction des effectifs de
personnel et leur maintien a 372 agents, ii) redefinition et clarification des missions et des modalites
d'intervention et de remuneration, iii) mise en place d'un systeme de gestion financiere, comptable et
budg6taire approprie et son informatisation, iv) assainissement financier a travers la restructuration de
son bilan au 31.12.1992 et la r6duction de ses charges, et enfin v) depart volontaire de 100 agents (debut
1996) ramnenant son effectif a 265 personnes.
* Reglementation: sur ce plan, il faut mentionner: i) la publication d'un Decret relatif a la reorganisation de
la SONADER (N 95.022), ii) la signature d'une Lettre de mission Etat-SONADER couvrant la periode
1994 - 1996, iii) la promulgation d'une loi relative au regime fiscal et douanier de la Societe.
c) Difficultes rencontrees et Derspectives
La mise en oeuvre de la restructuration de la SONADER, bien qu'ayant ben6ficiee du soutien de
l'Administration, s'est heurtee a des lenteurs dues a l'environnement de la Societ. C'est ainsi que, malgre la
realisation de la plupart des mesures relatives a la r6organisation de la SONADER, un certain nombre de
problemes persistent et empechent la Societe de beneficier pleinement des effets induits des ajustements deja
op6r6s. Ces problemes sont notamment: i) la persistance d'un regime de passation des marches inadapte au
niveau d'activit6 et A l'efficacite recherches, ii) un regimne fiscal et douanier pas suffisamnment incitatif, iii) le
non achevement de l'assainissement des organisations paysannes, iv) I'absence ou l'insuffisance de la
responsabilisation des organisations socioprofessionnelles paysannes, notamment en matiere de gestion-
maintenance des ouvrages collectifs, v) le fonctionnement imparfait du systeme de remuneration des
prestations de service, vi) le non achevement de la mise en application de l'organigranume cible et de la
restructuration des ressources humaines (redeploiement, plan de formation, disproportion entre personnel
productif a activite facturable et personnel de soutien), vii) des insuffisances et retards dans I'application du
nouveau systeme de gestion.
5. Reorganisation du MDRE et Programme d'Investissement Prioritaire (PIP)
a) Obiectifs
Au moment de la preparation du PASA, le r6le de l'Etat dans le developpement agricole etait caracterise par
son implication directe dans la production, la transfonnation et la conunercialisation, avec une disproportion
firappante des moyens et des taches confides entre les structures centrales et les structures regionales et une
multiplicit6 de projets autonomes, source de contradiction des objectifs, duplication des activites et mauvaise
allocation des ressources. Dans le cadre de la composante renforcement institutionnel du PASA, il etait ainsi
pr6vu, en vue d'am6liorer l'efficacite operationnelle du Ministere, notaniment sur le plan de la planification et
le suivi-6valuation des investissements, de:
* restructurer le MDRE en mettant l'accent, entre autres, sur le renforcement de ses capacites en
matiere de programmation et de suivi a travers une reorganisation de la Cellule de planification,
* etudier et mettre en place des nouveaux systemes de gestion (budget, personnel et materiel) et de
programmer et suivre les investissements publics.



9-
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Ils se situent a trois niveaux:
Cellule de planification: en vue de rendre la Cellule plus operationnelle, celle-ci a e  reorganisee en
decembre 1988 en deux bureaux, soutenus d'une unite informatique: bureau des etudes econorniques et
politiques rurales et bureau de la programmation, budgetisation et suivi, dans le but de la mise en place d'une
structure de planification approprie pour le suivi regulier du PASA et l'elaboration et le suivi du programme
d'investissement du secteur agricole. Dans le souci d'une meilleure integration de la Cellule a l'ensemble des
activit6s du Departement et dans le but de la porter a un niveau plus OMeve de decision au sein du Ministere,
la responsabilite de la Cellule a e  confiee, en juillet 1993, au Conseiller econornique du Ministre. A cette
occasion, un troisinme bureau (infornations rurales) a e  mis en place. Enfin, un programme de formation,
dans les domaines des etudes et analyse des projets et l'elaboration/execution des budgets de projets
d'investissement, a et mis en oeuvre dont quatre agents ont pu beneficier.
Ministere: dans le but de recentrer ses activites sur la planification, la programmation, le suivi et le controle,
la restructuration du MDRE a e  operee en mars 1993, basee sur les principes de la decentralisation et
deconcentration progressive, une meilleure adequation formnation et emploi, une amelioration des conditions
de travail et de remuneration. Elle s'est notamment traduite par:
* la creation, au niveau de chaque Wilaya, d'une delegation regionale investie de 1'ensemble des
missions confi6es au Departement requerant une decentralisation des moyens et des ressources;
u une integration fonctionnelle et dynamique des programmes sous-sectoriels (agriculture, elevage,
environnement, etc) et des services publics agricoles (recherche, vulgarisation, formation) a
travers l'emergence de nouvelles directions techniques (DRAP, DEAR, DRFV) et une redefinition
des missions, des r6les des structures administratives et des organismes sous tutelle;
o une meilleure prise en compte des questions foncieres et domaniales par la creation, au niveau de
chaque Wilaya, d'un bureau des affaires foncieres rattache a la Delegation regionale et coordonne
au niveau central par un bureau loge au Cabinet du Ministre.
Apres des debuts laborieux dus, notamment, au manque de ressources, aux resistances inherentes a tout
changement en l'absence de mesures d'accompagnement (sensibilisation, formation), la restructuration n'a pu
reellement s'engager sur la voie du succes au niveau regional qu'avec la mise en place du PSA qui a apporte
les ressources financieres indispensables pour la construction des locaux, les moyens de deplacement des
agents de terrain, un programme de formation et recyclage continus, un programme de travail clairement
etabli et des salaires et indemnites de deplacement uniformes.
Proaranume *lnvestissement Prioritaire: peu de resultats concrets ont pu etre obtenus, notamment du fait de
l'absence d'une maniere claire de traiter et d'analyser les donn6es par les parties impliquees (Cellule de
Planification/MDRE et Direction du Plan). Toutefois, depuis 1997, le suivi est desornais sous la
responsabilite du MDRE et une base commune est en cours de constitution (MEMAU) pour resoudre ce
probleme.
En ce qui conceme l'analyse plus fine du PIP, la nomenclature utilisee ne permet pas encore de distinguer
r6ellement les fonds consacres aux differents sous-secteurs. La finalisation de la strategie sectorielle en cours
representera une amelioration sensible sur le plan du suivi et de la programmation des investissements dans
le secteur rural et ses differents sous-secteurs.



- 10 -
c) Difficultes rencontrees et perspectives
Les difficultes rencontrees avaient trait, notamment, i) aux moyens limites (surtout avant le d6marrage du
PSA), ii) a la confusion consecutive aux changements operes sans veritable preparation, formation et
sensibilisation prealables, iii) a l'absence d'un organe efficace charge formellement de la mise en oeuvre et du
suivi de la restructuration et iv) a l'instabihite du personnel de la Cellule de Planification et A la reduction de
ses moyens au terme du PASA, sans une reprise par le budget de fonctionnement du Ministere.
Une evaluation du chemin parcouru sur la voie de la restructuration reste A faire afin d'etablir le bilan et de
definir clairement les perspectives. Toutefois, dans le cadre d'un tel bilan, l'accent devrait etre mis, en
particulier, sur: i) les questions relatives A la centralisation/ decentralisation des projets, ii) les capacites du
MDRE (besoins en formation, incitations A la performance), iii) les mecanismes permettant la polarisation
des directions techniques sur les activites de progranunation et de contr6le et leur articulation avec la Cellule
de planification, iv) les mecanismes permettant de limiter le foisonneinent des structures a caractere
provisoire (cellules, projets) et v) l'instabilite du personnel, en particulier celui de la planification.
6. Recherche et vulgarisation
a) Obiectif
L'objectif du volet recherche-vulgarisation etait de contribuer A intensifier et diversifier les cultures par: i)
l'adoption d'un programme national des recherches prioritaires dans les zones irriguees, ii) la mise en place
d'un systeme national de production de semences pour les zones pluviales et irriguees, iii) la reorganisation
des services de vulgarisation et iv) une meilleure liaison recherche-vulgarisation.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Un Plan National de la Recherche Agronomique (PNRA) a ete adopte par le Gouvernement en 1995 dans le
cadre du PSA. Ce Plan definit les priorites de la recherche pour la decade A venir a partir de contraintes
identifiees avec les agriculteurs et eleveurs. II comprend les cinq programmes suivants: i) systeme irrigue, ii)
pluvial-decrue, iii) sylvo-pastoral, iv) oasien et v) peri-urbain.
La composante recherche du PSA n'a pas encore demarre, mais des actions concretes de recherche dans le
cadre du PNRA ont deja ete engagees dans le domaine de la diversification et de l'intensification dans le
secteur irrigue.
Un systeme de production-commercialisation de semences de riz contr6lees et certifiees a et mis en place
dans le cadre du Projet de Developpement des Semences (PDS), de meme qu'en zone pluviale, un systeme de
collecte de semences traditionnelles produites avec de nouvelles techniques de selection, d'epuration et de
conservation.
c) PersDectives
Le volet recherche du PSA devrait demarrer en 1997, ce qui permettra de financer des essais notamment sur
les speculations destinees a l'exportation (diversification/ intensification dans le cadre du PDIAIM) et de
demarrer l'ensemble des activites prevues dans le cadre du PNRA.



- I1 -
Enfin, les chercheurs devront etre plus presents sur le terrain avec les vulgarisateurs et les paysans et orienter
leurs actions vers des essais en milieu paysan. Par ailleurs, suite aux stipulations de la lettre de politique
sous-sectorielle recherche-formation-vulgarisation (1994), des mesures doivent etre prises pour attirer et
retenir des chercheurs qualifies (remuneration, statut). Cependant, les ressources restant toujours firnitees,
I'utilisation des capacites sous-regionales de recherche (ADRAO et autres) doit etre envisagee dans l'avenir.
7. Elevage
a) Objectif
II s'agissait, dans le cadre du PASA, de contribuer a la mise au point d'un systeme d'eIevage moins
vulnerable aux secheresses par des actions pilotes de protection du milieu naturel et de gestion des paturages
et points d'eau, de formation d'associations d'eleveurs responsables et, enfin, de participation des dleveurs a
la politique et, en particulier, aux charges financieres des actions de protection sanitaire et d'intensification de
la protection.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
En fait, les actions menees dans le cadre du PASA se confondent souvent avec celles realisees dans le cadre
du projet Elevage II ayant bdneficie de l'appui du meme bailleur de fonds, l'IDA.
En matiere de gestion des paturages et points d'eau, i) de nombreuses etudes ont e  realis&es, notamment sur
les systemes de production, la comniercialisation des produits animaux, I'dpidem iologie et les qualites
bact6riologiques du lait, ii) deux perimetres pilotes pastoraux ont e  mis en place dans les secteurs de
Tintane et de Timbedra dans lesquels il est procede annuellement a des inventaires des ressources animales et
pastorales, enfm, iii) essentiellement dans le cadre du projet Elevage II, 68 points d'eau ont ete rehabilitds et
13 nouveaux points ont ete realises.
Sur le plan de l'organisation de la profession, 39 associations pastorales ont ete creees dont 34 detenaient un
ddp6t de produits veterinaires et 25 un mini-projet de production laitiere. Couvrant initialement de larges
territoires ce qui limitait leur efficacite, 22 de ces associations furent restructurees, en 1993, en organisations
plus petites et plus operationnelles. Par ailleurs, au niveau central, le r6le du des intrants delevage fut
renforce et celui-ci transforme en societe d'economie mixte sous l'appellation "Centrale d'Achat des Intrants
d'Elevage" (CAIE), avec ouverture de son capital aux associations pastorales.
Concemant l'integration agriculture - elevage dans les zones irriguees et a haute pluviom6trie, a l'exception
de quelques essais de cultures fourrageres realises avec succes par le CNRADA et la SONADER, tout reste
a faire dans le cadre du PDIAIM, notamment l'amenagement de couloirs d'acces au fleuve pour permettre
l'abreuvement des animaux sans creer des conflits avec les cultivateurs.
c) Difficultes rencontrees et DersDectives
Les difficultes rencontrees sont dues, essentiellement, a la dispersion des actions et des moyens sur un
territoire extremement vaste et au manque de coordination entre directions techniques ou organismes se
repartissant actuellement les taches (DRAP, DRFV, DEAR, CNERV et Hydraulique).
Pour I'avenir, le recensement de l'elevage par echantillonnage doit etre fait rapidement, car la connaissance
du secteur demeure insuffisante pour planifier son developpement sur des bases serieuses. Les organisations



- 12 -
d'eleveurs devraient etre les structures de base pour l'implication et la responsabilisation des collectivites
dans la gestion rationnelle des ressources naturelles, au meme titre que les communautes villageoises, car
elles sont les vrais interlocuteurs des eleveurs nomades et doivent pouvoir constituer un contre-pouvoir face
aux agro-eleveurs sedentaires des villages. Dans cette optique, il serait necessaire de consolider les acquis,
notamment au niveau des competences et de l'organisation sociale des eleveurs. Enfin, I'augmentation des
recettes des eleveurs est imperative pour repondre a la nouvelle donne creee par la privatisation des services
de sante animale. Seule une valorisation optimale de 1'ensemble des produits (viande, lait, peaux et cuirs)
peut generer ces recettes.
8. Environnement
a) Obiectif
Dans le cadre du PASA devaient etre mises au point des activites de protection de 1'environnement durables,
notamrnent grace a des actions pilotes visant A intensifier la lutte contre l'ensablement. II s'agissait egalement
d'amorcer la restauration du couvert vegetal au niveau des forets naturelles, de promouvoir le reboisement et
des energies alternatives au bois et au charbon de bois et de mettre en place un cadre institutionnel adequat.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
L'impact du projet sur le plan environnemental se situe davantage au niveau institutionnel et a celui de
l'approfondissement des connaissances qu'a celui des realisations concretes. C'est ainsi qu'un Plan d'Action
National pour l'Environnement (PANE) et un Programme Multisectoriel de Lutte Contre la Desertification
(PMLCD) ont dtd elabores et diverses etudes (exemple filiere charbon) ont e  realisees. Des resultats
concrets se situent par contre au niveau de certains projets et actions geographiquement limitees
(reboisement, mise en place de rangees de brise-vent, bois villageois, protection contre l'ensablement,
ceintures vertes, regeneration des gommeraies, etc). Un impact beaucoup plus large peut toutefois ere
constate en ce qui concerne la vulgarisation et l'acceptation par les populations des foyers ameliores
permettant des economies sensibles de combustible. Cependant, la tache est immense et beaucoup reste a
faire, dans le cadre des nouveaux programmes (notamment PDLAJM et PGRNP) en preparation et integrant
plus efficacement la composante environnementale en terme d'impact au niveau des infrastructures et d'action
corrective.
c) Difficultes rencontr&es et DersDectives
D'une maniere generale il faut admettre que la plus grande difficulte se situe toujours sur le plan de la prise
de conscience des populations. De tres gros efforts de sensibilisation sont encore a faire en matiere de
protection de l'environnement et d'utilisation rationnelle des ressources naturelles.
Dans le cadre du PANE et du PMLCD, de meme que dans celui des deux programmes cites ci-avant
(PDLAIM et PGRNP), il s'agira de mettre en oeuvre et de realiser des programmes regionaux dans l'ensemble
du pays, en mettant en particulier l'accent sur l'integration de la strategie nationale de conservation de la
nature et la necessite d'elargir les domaines dtintervention a l'ensemble des aspects relatifs a l'environnement
tant biologique que physique (milieu rural, milieu urbain et milieu manrn).
Toutes les actions liees a l'environnement et A la preservation de la nature seront desormais pilotees par le
Conseil National de l'EnvironnementlDeveloppement (CNED) et auront comme objectifs: i) la poursuite et
l'intensification de la lutte contre l'ensablement, ii) la protection et la gestion des ressources naturelles, iii) la



- 13 -
protection et la gestion des ressources forestieres et iv) I'amIlioration du cadre institutionnel et juridique des
interventions dans le domaine de l'environnement.
B. Composante d'investissement
Les principaux volets de cette composante et qui seront examines ci-apres, etaient: i) les travaux
d'am6lioration et d'entretien, ii) la production agricole, iii) la vulgarisation - formation, iv) I'organisation
paysanne, v) la recherche, vi) I'elevage, vii) la peche, viii) 1'environnement, ix) la sante et les infrastructures
sociales et, enfin, x) I'assistance technique.
1. Travaux d'amelioration et d'entretien
a) Obiectif
Les principaux objectifs en matiere d'amelioration et d'entretien de l'exploitation consistaient en la mise en
place: i) d'un systeme de distribution rationnel d'eau et son application dans le but de minimiser le gaspillage
de 1'eau, ii) d'une methode plus systematique d'entretien du perimetre, avec une definition claire de la
repartition du travail entre la SONADER et les cooperatives.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Au niveau de l'irrigation, les cooperatives ont compris la necessite d'6conomie d'eau A travers les programmes
de sensibilisation et de formation initids par le projet. C'est ainsi que la consommation d'eau A l'hectare est
passee de 40.000 m3 en 1990 A 21.000 en 1995. Par ailleurs, le barrage de Foum-Gleita a fait regulierement
l'objet d'inspections techniques par une expertise etrangere dont les rapports ont certifie notamment la
stabilite de cet ouvrage et de ses eldments annexes. Depuis 1996, l'interpretation des donnees d'auscultation
est assuree par un cadre de la SONADER qui a beneficie d'une formation appropriee en Suisse.
Concemant les travaux realises, sur le plan des des infrastructures routieres, la construction d'une piste
dtacces plus courte pour le raccordement a la piste Ka&di - M'Bout et d'un pont fianchissant le Gorgol a ete
remplacee par un programme d'alimentation en eau des villages du perimetre. Quant aux travaux
d'amelioration et d'entretien du perimetre proprement dit, ils ont concemr, notamment, la refection des pistes,
le rev&ement des berges des canaux ainsi que le curage et le desherbage des canaux, drains et ouvrages
2. Production agricole
a) Objectif
En vue notament d'ameliorer le revenu des exploitants agricoles, il dtait prevu d'intensifier et de consolider la
riziculture irriguee, d'introduire des cultures maraich6res et fruitieres et de promouvoir la culture de ddcrue
sur le pourtour de la retenue du barrage.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
* Cultures irrimu6es : Les superficies cultivees annuellement en riz durant les campagnes allant de 1990 a
1994 ont ete respectivement de 2.660 ha, 2.792 ha, 1.492,5 ha et 998 ha, soit des intensites culturales de
respectivement 136%, 143%, 116%, 77% et 51 %. Une remont6e des emblavures a eu lieu en 1995 (1.143
ha) et en 1996 (1.200 ha). Cette baisse des emblavures, A partir de 1992, s'explique entre autres par:



- 14 -
- le deficit d'eau dans la retenue du barrage bloquant ainsi la conduite de la campagne de CSC
1993,
- le retard pris par les semis/repiquages suite la mise en place trop tardive, pour la campagne
d'hivemage 1992, du credit agricole, de meme que, sur certaines parcelles, a la preparation
retardee des sols suite a la recolte tardive du riz de CSC,
- la non disponibilite du credit agricole suite au non paiement par les cooperatives des arrieres de
credit, dont le remboursement avait ete exige en totalite par l'institution de credit (UNCACEM)
avant tout nouvel octroi de credit,
- l'invasion du perimetre par des rats aimsi que son enherbement excessif en 1994,
- I'alcalinite des sols sur 700 ha actuellement abandonnes par les paysans.
Face a ces multiples contraintes ayant entra^in une regression des superficies cultivees, dfferentes
mesures ont e  prises ayant permis, en particulier, de rehausser les superficies cultivees a 2.323 ha
en 1995 et 2.385 ha en 1996, soit des intensites culturales de respectivement 119% et 122% (et
meme de 186% et 191% en tenant compte des 700 ha de sols alcalins non mis en culture), avec des
rendements moyens en CSC de 3,7 t/ha et en hivemage de 4,2 t/ha.
* Cultures maraich&res: Les cooperatives feminines ont cultiv6 16 ha en 1993, 25 ha en 1994 et 36 ha en
1995. La speculation dominante a e  l'oignon, facile a transporter et a ecouler, qui a lui seul occupe dans
les assolements des superficies allant de 60 a 70%. Le rendement moyen obtenu a ete de l'ordre de 16 t/ha
d'oignon, soit une production d'oignon de 739,2 t pour les 3 annees. Les autres speculations mineures sont
representees par l'aubergine, le chou pomme, les tomates, etc. Des superficies autrement plus importantes,
de l'ordre de 150 ha sur les 500 ha amnenages, sont emblavees chaque annee dans la zone de Lexeiba (qui
'oneficie de l'eau de la retenue du barrage de Foum-Gleita) encadree par le projet depuis 1995. Les
rendements y depassent 20 t d'oignon a l'hectare.
* Cultures de decrue: Les cultures de decrue autour de la retenue sont pratiquees par environ 4.000
familles reparties entre une dizaine de villages. Elles ont e  realisees sur 1.200 ha en 1993, sur 1.400 ha
en 1994 et 1.700 ha en 1995. La culture dominante y est le mais, avec des rendements oscillant entre 0,8
et 1,4 t/ha, avec une moyenne de 1 t/ha sans et de 1,3 t/ha avec traitement des semences au Thiram.
3. Vulgarisation - formation
a) Objectif
En matiere de vulgarisation, il s'agissait de generaliser la mise en oeuvre de l'approche "training and visits" et
d'acquerir des moyens logistiques (motos) assurant la mobilite des agents de vulgarisation de base (AVB).
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
La realisation de ces objectifs a permis d'une part une utilisation rationnelle du personnel (le nombre d'AVB
a pu etre reduit de 20 en 1990 (= I AVB pour 90 ha) a 6 en 1996 (= I AVB pour 300 ha) et, d'autre part,
une extension du chanp d'action du service de vulgarisation aux perimetres prives de Lexeiba et aux cultures
de decrue autour de la retenue du barrage. II est a noter que les taux de participation, d'adoption et de
diffusion des themes techniques vulgarises ont connu une evolution progressive et ont engendre des revenus
nets additionnels satisfaisants.



- 15 -
4. Organisation paysanne
a) Obiectif
Suite aux mesures de desengagement prises dans le cadre du PASA et notamment en matiere de
commercialisation, les problemes d'dcoulement de la production du perimetre de Foum-Gleita, de surcro^it
tres enclave par rapport aux autres grands perimetres, se sont accrus. II etait donc imperatif que les
producteurs s'organisent pour ecouler leurs produits et s'approvisionnent en intrants.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
En 1990, le prix moyen d'achat du paddy aux producteurs etait descendu a 10 UM/kg et les agriculteurs ont
eu davantage recours aux credits pratiques par les usuriers, avec un taux tres elevd souvant proche de 100%.
Cette situation, outre ses consequences sur le niveau de vie de la population, avait pour effet de reduire la
capacite des exploitants a faire face au remboursement des credits intrants et au paiement de la redevance
fixe. La viabilite du perimetre etait alors dangereusement compromise. Pour repondre a ces difficultes, la
SONADER, en collaboration avec ACOPAM, a entrepris, des 1990, une experience test de mise en place
d'un systeme de financement de la conumercialisation. Les producteurs ont ete largernent associes a la
definition du systeme et a son perfectionnement. Depuis 1994, ils assument la responsabilite complete de sa
gestion A travers une Union des Cooperatives Agricoles de Foum-Gleita (UCAF), qu'ils ont constitues a cet
effet.
Apres cinq annees de conimercialisation, le taux de remboursement est de pres de 100%. Les raisons de ce
succes sont a attribuer notanument au degre d'appreciation des beneficiaires, de m&ne qu'au fait que, de
carnpagne en campagne, I'epargne des cooperatives s'accroit (de pres de 500.000 UM en 1991 a 3,25
millions UM en 1995), ce qui a eu pour consequence d'augmenter le nombre de coop6ratives beneficiaires de
4 en 1990 A 17 en 1995. Ainsi I'epargne constitu6e a pernis d'accroitre le fonds de roulement de l'UCAF et
rendu possible le prefiancement, depuis la CSC 1995, des intrants agricoles (semences certifiees et uree).
Plusieurs raisons peuvent expliquer le taux de remboursement e1eve: i) la confiance instauree entre l'UCAF et
les cooperatives de base, ii) la gestion directe et la responsabilisation de l'UCAF, iii) I'autofinancement
partiel par les cooperatives de base, iv) la rigueur dans l'octroi des credits. Par ailleurs, en 1996, l'UCAF a
signe avec la SONADER une convention relative A la cogestion des recettes de la redevance fixe destinees au
paiement des charges liees A l'entretien du perimntre. Ainsi l'UCAF se voit impliquee dans la programmation,
1'execution et le suivi de tous les travaux d'entretien de l'exploitation.
Depuis 1994, un volet Femmes a ete mis en place et est encadre par le projet en vue de la promotion des
activites feminines. Deux activites sont predominantes, a savoir le maraichage (en CSF) et les travaux
d'atelier de couture et de teinture. En matiere de maraichage, 23 groupements feminins ont cultives, en CSF
1994/95, une superficie totale de 24,7 ha. Les speculations dominantes ont etd l'oignon (60%), les carottes et
le chou pommn. En CSF 1995/96, ce sont 26 groupements avec une superficie totale de 23,3 ha, qui se sont
consacres au marechage. Concemant la couture et la teinture, 4 centres organises en groupements sont
fonctionnels. Ils s'emploient notamment A confectionner des habits pour fenumes et enfants.
L'installation en cours d'une station de radio FM a conime objectif principal de relayer l'action de
vulgarisation et de promouvoir le developpement socio-economique de la zone du projet, en collaboration
avec Radio Mauritanie.



- 16 -
5. Recherche
a) Objectif
Ce volet devait concevoir et executer un programme de recherche adaptive repondant aux besoins du projet
et aboutir, d'une part, a une utilisation rationnelle du perimetre et des ressources en eau, pour rentabiliser au
mieux le barrage, et d'autre part, a ameliorer le revenu des exploitants et leurs conditions de vie.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Le programme comprend notanmment les themes prioritaires suivants: i) essais de varietes de riz d'hivemage
a cycle vegetatif court laissant aux cultivateurs le temps pour preparer et semer une culture de CSF avant la
fin du mois de novembre, ii) periode optimale d'ensemencement pour le riz de CSC, iii) diversification des
productions en s'interessant particulierement au ble et a l'orge de CSF, aux 1egumineuses, legumes et
cultures fourrageres, iv) traction animale pour la preparation du sol, et v )techniques d'irrigation (planches,
billons, etc). En 1995, les priorites en matiere de recherche ont ete redefinies et le programme axe sur la
riziculture, la diversification des cultures en irrigue, la culture de decrue et la lutte contre la degradation des
sols. Neanmoins, au bout de 4 ans, peu de recommandations fiables peuvent &tre faites, les resultats de
certaines campagnes ayant e  peu significatives suite aux degats causes par des evenements climatiques
(vents chauds, exces d'eau) ou des invasions de depredateurs (sauteriaux, borers, rats). Toutefois, il se
confirme que: i) en culture de riz, les cycles les plus courts (mais toujours trop longs !) sont de l'ordre de 115
jours en CSC et de 120 - 125 jours en hivemage; sur le plan varietal, certains IR (en CSC) et le BG 400-1
(en hivemage) se montrent nettement plus productives que les varietes habituelles TN1 (en CSC) et Jaya
(hivemage), ii) l'orge, plus resistante que le ble et d'une valeur trois a quatre fois plus elev6e a la vente,
presente une altemative interessante au mais, iii) en culture d'oignon, speculation tres interessante en CSF,
les varietes Violet de Gahni et IRAT 69 sont nettement plus productives que la variete locale, iv) pour le
mais et le sorgho, des varietes interessantes car plus productives semblent exister, des essais de confirmation,
notamment en milieu paysan, s'imposent toutefois avant de generaliser leur emploi, et enfin, v) le niebe,
iegumineuse enrichissante notamment pour des sols soumis a la mono-culture du riz, fournit une graine
appreciee par la population et des fanes utilisees comme fourrage.
6. Elevage
a) Obiectif
L'integration agriculture - elevage et la pratique de 1'l1evage au titre de la diversification des activites en vue
d'une augmentation du revenu des exploitants etaient les objectifs essentiels.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Le projet a encourag6 la mise en place d'une association agropastorale dans la zone de Foum-Gleita. Cette
association, creee en 1991, compte aujourd'hui 210 membres et assure la sante animale du cheptel par le
biais de 35 auxiliaires d'elevage fomnms et equipes en trousses veterinaires et d'une pharmacie dotee en
medicaments par le projet. Par ailleurs, le projet a realise deux aires de stabulation et un silo fosses pour le
traitement de la paille (compost).
Par ailleurs, en partie grace a cette assistance du projet, on constate que le cheptel a connu un essor
remarquable. Comptant environ 1.000 bovins et 3.000 petits ruminants en 1987 (estimation sous-secteur



- 17 -
d'elevage de M'Bout), il est passe jusqu'en 1993 (suivant un recensement du projet couvrant seulement 27
villages sur les 50 que compte la zone du projet) a plus de 5.500 bovins et 20.800 petits ruminants.
Cependant, une multiplication des effectifs par 5 ou 6 en seulement 6 ans ne peut s'expliquer par la seule
croissance normale des troupeaux, elle fait supposer de nombreux apports exterieurs: troupeaux transhumant
auparavent en dehors de la zone, achats de betail grace aux revenus procures par le pdrimetre. Les prix
moyens d'un bovin et d'un petit ruminant etant actuellement respectivement de 60.000 et de 5.000 UM, ce
cheptel represente en 1993 et sur la base du recensement incomplet, une valeur de plus de 400 mio UM.
7. Peche
a) Obiectif
II s'agissait d'utiliser au mieux le potentiel halieutique de la retenue du barrage et de generer des revenus.
b) Realisations et r6sultats obtenus
Le potentiel halieutique de la retenue du barrage a e  estime a 850 t par an, un potentiel non negligeable en
vue de diversifier et d'ameliorer l'alimentation des populations de la zone. Pour cette raison, la composante
peche du projet s'est appliquee a organiser les pecheurs en cooperatives et a leur faciliter l'acces aux credits
d'equipement. Le nombre des pecheurs operant avec des pirogues et filets maillds et palangres sur la retenue
semble se stabiliser autour de 75, les prises auraient evolue, suivant les auteurs et annees, entre 300 t (1987),
410 t (1992) et 562 t (1994) de poisson frais par an. Le poisson etant generalement commercialise a l'&tat
seche, les 562 t representent 187 t de poisson seche qui, valorise a 150 UM/kg, procure un revenu brut de 28
mio UM. Le revenu brut moyen d'un pecheur serait alors de 370.000 UM/an, certainement le multiple d'un
bon riziculteur.
8. Environnement
a) Obiectif
A cote de la protection de l'environnement, un volet Reboisement devait notamment faciliter
l'approvisionnement en bois de feu des populations, proteger le perimetre par la plantation de brise-vent et
diversifier l'alimentation par l'introduction d'arbres fruitiers.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Les realisations au cours de cette phase de consolidation ont consiste notamment en: la plantation de brise-
vent le long des canaux et drains sur une longueur totale de 52 km(l) en plus des 10 km(l) plantes avant
1990. A ce jour, 61,1 km de brise-vent sont vivants et entretenus regulierement par les paysans. D'autre part,
la protection de la retenue effective sur 508 ha en vue de diminuer son envasement au niveau des Monts
Wawa, ou l'erosion est importante, a permis: i) la r6g6ndration des especes arbustives, ii) la limitation de
l'erosion et iii) une prise de conscience des populations de l'importance de la reconstitution du milieu
6cologique.
Concernant les arbres d'ombrage, 12.000 plants ont ete distribues et plantes au niveau des jardins
mara^ichers et autres espaces appropries. Par ailleurs, une plantation irriguee d'eucalyptus de 5 ha a 6te
installee au niveau de parcelles abandonnees. En outre, une superficie de 44 ha a e  rdservee aux espaces
verts. En 1994, 1.000 arbres ont e  installes sur cette espace, et 400 autres en 1995. 11 s'agit-la d'une action



- 18 -
qui devra se poursuivre pendant plusieurs annees encore avant que I'on puisse parler d'espaces verts, car
suivant les essences retenues, la densite a terme devra atteindre entre 50 et 150 arbres/ha, soit sur 44 ha entre
2.200 et 6.600 arbres.
Enfin, un verger a ete installe au niveau de la ferme experimentale. 11 comprend 83 manguiers, 944
bananiers, 22 goyaviers et 96 agrumes. L'impact de ce verger a ete le suivant: i) diffusion, au niveau des
groupements feminins, avec installation de 150 rejets de bananier et de manguier, ii) vente de bananes pour
un montant de 40.280 UM, iii) entretien du verger assure entierement par les beneficiaires.
En vue de realiser une economie substantielle de bois de chauffe, 700 foyers ameliores ont e  installes par
les villageois. La diffusion a e  rapide et son impact economique important en terme d'economie de bois (de
l'ordre de 50%). De nombreux foyers fabriquent maintenant eux-memes ces foyers en banco cuit (prix de
revient 18 briques A 3 UM = 54 UM par foyer) et un recensement effectue par le projet en 1996 fait etat d'au
moins 800 foyers fonctionnels.
9. Sante et infrastructures sociales
a) Obiectif
Couvrir les besoins des population en matiere de sante et lutter, en particulier, contre les maladies vehiculees
par l'eau.
b) Realisations et resultats obtenus
Les services tres rudimentaires de sante au demarrage du projet demandaient en consequence a etre arneliores
de fa=on substantielle, particulierement suite a la recrudescence constatee des maladies vehiculees par l'eau
(paludisme, diarrhdes, gastr-enterites, parasitoses intestinales). Au cours du projet, le dispensaire existant
depuis 1986 a ete agrandi, modernise et equipe. Ainsi, depuis 1991, il offre tous les types de consultations
(internes et externes). L'6vacuation des cas graves s'est amnelioree et a nettement progresse avec l'acquisition
par le projet, en 1994, d'une ambulance tout terrain. Un medecin est affecte A Foum Gleita depuis le debut de
l'annee 1995. Actuellement, le dispensaire couvre environ 25.000 habitants et le nombre de consultations
extemes est de l'ordre de 10.000 a 12.000 par an. Le paludisme a represente l'affection dominante tout au
long de la duree du projet. Le nombre de cas de gastro-enterites diminue depuis 1991, passant de 716 cas a
413 en 1995. Pour les parsitoses intestinales, le nombre des cas est stationnaire pendant toute la duree du
projet, avec cependant une diminution notable en 1995.
Concernant les travaux realises, la construction initialement prevue d'une piste d'acces plus courte pour le
raccordement a la piste Kaedi - M'Bout et d'un pont franchissant le Gorgol a ete remplacee par un
programme d'alimentation en eau des villages du primrtre. C'est ainsi que 5 forages equipes de pompes
manuelles (a pedale) ont ete realises ainsi que l'adduction d'eau du village de Foum-Gleita a partir du forage
situ6 au pied du barrage. Toujours en ce qui concerne les infrastructures sociales, 3 maisons cooperatives et
une ecole ont ete construites et une autre ecole a e  rehabilite.
10. Assistance technique
Le projet a beneficie d'une assistance technique appreciable consistant en l'affectation d'un conseiller en
mission de longue duree (de 1992 a la mi 1995) et de la mise en oeuvre de nombreuses missions d'appui fort
utiles pour la programmation et le suivi technique des volets concemrs. Ces missions ont represente un grand



- 19 -
atout notamment dans l'elaboration des programmes permettant d'orienter les activites des differents volets
du projet. C'est ainsi que: i) dans le cadre de la composante Amelioration de l'exploitation et gestion de
l'eau, 3 missions d'appui ont eu lieu pour la surveillance du barrage ainsi que des ouvrages et equipements
lies au barrage, et 6 mission d'appui dans les domaines de la gestion de l'eau, la rationnalisation de la
distribution de l'eau, la maintenance des ouvrages d'infrastructure, 1'entretien des reseaux d'irrigation et de
drainage, le suivi des variations de niveau de la retenue d'eau du barrage, le probleme de l'alimentation en
eau potable et, enfin, l'organisation d'un atelier sur la gestion technique des grands perimetres. de meme que
ii) 3 missions en matiere d'elevage, iii) 2 missions dans le cadre du volet vulgarisation, et iv) 1 mission pour
chacun des volets environnement, peche et sante.
IV. APPRECIATION GENERALE DES PERFORMANCES DES DEUX PARTIES
Le Gouvemernent mauritanien se felicite de la collaboration conjointe de l'ensemble des bailleurs de fonds
qui ont appuye la mise en oeuvre du PASA et qui a et une source de coherence et d'efficacite. Le
Gouvemement a honore l'ensemble de ses engagements, malgre un processus de reactualisation permanent de
la matrice initiale. Ceci n'a pas ete sans incidence sur la capacite de pilotage et de mise en oeuvre du projet.
V. DURABILITE
Le PASA a permis de mettre en place les fondements d'une politique de liberalisation et de developpement
durable de l'activite agricole grace a la formulation d'un certain nombre de documents de politique ou de
strategie elabores par sous-secteurs. Cependant, le PASA a surtout eu un caractere institutionnel et ne
saurait constituer un veritable programme de developpement rural national. Le redressement obtenu reste
fragile et doit ere considere comme une premiere etape dans un processus a plus long terme. C'est pourquoi,
il a et6 envisage de le conforter rapidement en traitant des problemes lies aux trois grands ensembles
ecologiques (vallee avec le PDLkIM, zone pluviale avec le PGRNP, zone desertique avec le projet Oasis II)
et des types d'intervention horizontales par filiere (politique de l'elevage, programme en faveur de
1'environnement) ou par fonction (PSA pour le triptyque recherche, formation, vulgarisation).
Particulierement en ce qui concerne la composante d'ajustement, le PASA a permis, malgre des retards et des
imperfections dans sa mise en oeuvre, de faire des progres notables dans le secteur agricole. Afin de
maintenir l'esprit du PASA, les actions ont e  poursuivies au dela de sa periode 1990/94 de mise en oeuvre
officielle: i) en continuant la liberalisation du commerce et des prix des cereales, ii) en ameliorant les
modalites de mise en oeuvre de la reforme fonciere, iii) en poursuivant la decentralisation du MDRE et
restructuration de la SONADER, iv) en intensifiant le processus d'assainissement et de responsabilisation des
organisations socioprofessionnelles, v) en renforcant les composantes vulgarisation et recherche dans le cadre
du PSA.
Par ailleurs, le Gouvemement est fermement decide de poursuivre les actions initiees dans le cadre du PASA
a travers des operations d'investissement comme le PDLIAM en cours de preparation, afin que des mesures
d'ajustement conmme celles demarrees dans le cadre du PASA soient accompagnees et consolidees par des
programmes d'investissement.
VI. CONCLUSION
Le PASA, y compris la phase post PASA, a permis des realisations concretes et fort utiles pour le
developpement harmonieux futur du secteur agricole, notamment sur le plan institutionnel et reglementaire.
Neanmoins, beaucoup d'actions amorcees dans le cadre du PASA doivent etre poursuivies et consolidees et



- 20 -
de nombreux acquis institutionnels et rdglementaires doivent etre revus et actualises a la lumiere de
l'evolution du secteur et du contexte international.
Toutefois, il faut maintenant passer d'une politique d'ajustement a une logique de developpement integrant: i)
une logique economique (viabiliser et rentabiliser l'existant), ii) une logique sociale (securiser et favoriser la
croissance du revenu agricole et ses capacites d'action), et iii) une logique environnementale (asseoir les
bases d'un developpement durable). Dans la perspective incontournable d'un developpement equilibre des
trois grandes zones agro-ecologiques (vallee, zone pluviale et oasis), la strategie de developpement agricole
s'articulera dorenavant autour des quatre orientations suivantes:
*  contribuer a la garantie de la securite alimnentaire,
* ameliorer les revenus des agriculteurs, 1'emploi rural et lutter contre la pauvrete,
* favoriser l'integration de l'agriculture au marche national et international,
* proteger et conserver les ressources naturelles afin d'assurer un developpement durable.
Les trois grands programmes en cours d'execution ou de prdparation au niveau regional:
* le Programme de Developpement Intdgre de l'Agriculture Irriguee en Mauritanie,
* le Programme de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en Zone Pluviale,
* Ieprojet Oasis II,
garantiront le developpement equilibre recherche des zones agro-ecologiques. Ces programmes seront
compldtes par des interventions horizontales par filiere (Elevage) ou par fonction PSA (Projet des Services
Agricoles), Foncier et Credit.
Cette vision correspond notamment aux recommandations formulees par la Banque Mondiale dans le cadre
de la Seconde Revue des Ddpenses Publiques (1995) qui, en ce qui conceme le secteur du developpement
rural, sont les suivantes:
"Les differents aspects que revet le ddveloppement rural ne doivent pas resulter en une dispersion des actions
qui rend plus difficiles leur coordination et leur suivi. En consequence, il conviendrait de:
*  Entreprendre une recomposition du programme d'investissement dans le but de mises en relations
geographiques et thematiques aux fins de coordination, recherche de synergies et d'economies, et
amelioration de la cohdrence avec la politique sectorielle.
*  Mettre en place, au sein du MDRE, une organisation des responsabilites coherente avec cette
recomposition (spdcifiant les prerogatives respectives des services centraux et des services
regionaux) ainsi que des procedures de consultations/coordination regulieres entre les Directions.
* Ameliorer le suivi des projets (notamment l'appreciation des charges recurrentes et l'application
d'indicateurs pertinents), enrichir la programmation et la budgetisation des connaissances
acquises en cours d'execution.
*  Elaborer et mettre en oeuvre une serie d'actions visant A ameliorer de facon sensible la
performance des modes de reglement des questions foncieres et du systeme de credit agricole.



-21 -
* Identifier avec les EPA (Etablissements Publics a caractere Administratif) sous tutelle, les
moyens par lesquels ils pourraient accroitre leurs ressources propres, notamment par la
facturation dc leurs prestations et lelargissement de l'eventail des operateurs qu'ils servent."
Bien conscient de l'importance et du caractere inacheve des mesures ayant fait l'objet du PASA, le
Gouvernement propose d'inclure la poursuite de ces mesures d'ajustement, de meme que la consolidation des
investissements realises au niveau de Foum-Gleita, dans le PDIAIM, tout en les consolidant par des actions
d'investissement. De plus, il prepare, avec l'assistance de l'IDA, une Strategie du developpement rural qui
devrait recommander une serie de mesures comparables a celles du PASA. De nombreuses etudes sectorielles
a mettre en oeuvre a court et moyen terme, notamment dans le cadre de la Strategie d'assistance au pays
(CAS), completeront ces actions en faveur du secteur rural.









IMAGING
Report No.:          16794
Type:     ICR



