CREDIT NUMBER 2093 MAU
tI
SONADER Project Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment and Investment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated                               , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2093 MAU
SONADER PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCTATION (the Association) and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL (SONADER).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 19,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SONADER
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SONADER, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to SONADER on the terms and conditions set forth in
said SONADER Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS SONADER, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and Other Covenants
Section 2.01. SONADER declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿- 2 -
Parts A.1 through 6, B and C.1 and 2 of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A.1 through 6, B and C.1 and 2 of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.03. SONADER shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the SONADER
Project Agreement and Parts A.1 through 6, B and C.1 and 2 of the
Project.
Section 2.04. SONADER shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SONADER Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, SONADER shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the SONADER Subsidiary Grant
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. SONADER shall: (a) at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the SONADER Subsidiary Grant
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b) promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by SONADER of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the SONADER Subsidiary Grant Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. SONADER shall, not later than June 30, 1990,
enter into agreements acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, setting forth the parties' respective obligations:
(a) with UBD, with regard to the organization of provision
of agricultural credit, in the Project Area; and
(b) with the Centre National de Recherches Agricoles, with
regard to agricultural research.
Section 2.07. SONADER shall:
(a) sell inputs delivered to farmers at their full cost,
including transport; and
(b) until its complete withdrawal from agricultural credit
activities, not provide credit to farmers who have not fully
repaid their debts to SONADER.
Section 2.08. SONADER shall, not later than November 30 of
each year the Project is carried out, prepare a budget covering
its operations during the following year, and furnish said budget
to the Association and the Borrower.
Section 2.09. SONADER shall, not later than June 30, 1990,
establish in its regional Directorate of Foum Gleita a division,
responsible for the operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems in the Project Area and with such staffing levels and
other resources as shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.10. SONADER shall:
(a) with the assistance of engineering experts, whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Association, annually inspect the Foum Gleita
dam and its related structures for deficiencies in its condition
or in the quality and adequacy of its maintenance and operations;
(b) immediately after each such inspection, issue a report
thereon, prepared by said engineering experts, and promptly take
or cause to be taken all remedial action, if any, recommended in
said report; and


﻿-4
(c) not later than June 30, 1990, furnish the first such
report to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONADER
Section 3.0l.- SCzADER shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SONADER shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. SONADER shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONADER shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition, and the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to finance carrying out
Parts A.1 through 6, B and C.1 and 2 of the Project.
(b)   SONADER shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited,


﻿-5-
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SONADER thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SONADER of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿-6-
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Asscition:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SONADER:
Soci6t6 Nationale de D6veloppement Rural
B.P. 321
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                    Telex:
SONADER                       807 MTN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SONADER, or by SONADER on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its Director General or such other person or persons
as SONADER shall designate in writing, and SONADER shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


