Page  1
27433 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT 
Project Name: 
PE—Programmatic Decentralization and Competitiveness 
Structural Adjustment Loan (DecSAL) 
Region:
 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Sector:
 Multi-Sector 
Task Manager:
 
Fernando Rojas (LCC1C) 
Project ID Number: 
PE-PE-P082871-LEN-BB 
Borrower:
 
Republic of Peru 
Guarantor:
 not 
applicable 
Implementing Agency: 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 Lima 
 
Republic of Peru 
Environmental Category: 
not applicable 
Date PID Prepared:
 
16 October, 2003 
Auth Appr/Negs Date:
 
23-24 October, 2003 
Projected Board Date:
 
2 December, 2003 
1.  Country and Sector Background: 
Peru has been going through rapid political reforms during the past two years.  The return 
to fuller democracy after the Fujimori administration has led to a drive for greater transparency 
and reduction of corruption.  The Congress, courts, political parties, media and civil society have 
been taking advantage of the new political environment to participate actively in policy making 
and keep a vigilant eye on public management.  The Congress has often been the leading force in 
movements towards deepening democracy and strengthening the rule of law.  It has taken 
initiatives on major reforms and quickly responded to the Executive Branch's reform initiatives, 
albeit often modifying them significantly. 
Within this setting, one of the most deeply felt demands of the Peruvian population is to 
reduce the concentration of state power by decentralizing public functions and resources to  
lower levels of government and communities.  In response, the Toledo government in 2002 
proposed a number of reforms, several of which the Congress has enacted.  Major laws were 
passed regarding regional governments, basic decentralization, fiscal responsibility, participatory 
budgeting, and public sector reform.  Other reforms along with their supporting regulations are 
being prepared as well.  In total, these reforms are changing the way in which Peru's public 
sector operates. 
Page  2
Page  3
2.  Objectives: 
The Government of Peru has requested a programmatic structural adjustment operation 
for assistance to its decentralization of public functions and resources, in tandem with measures 
to help ensure continued sound public finances and economic growth.  In response, the proposed 
loan has three specific objectives: (i) protect fiscal sustainability during Peru's transition to a 
more decentralized state; (ii) assist strengthening management and fiscal capacity at subnational 
levels for their progressive assumption of service responsibilities; and (iii)  support the creation 
of a better regulatory and investment environment for upgrading Peru's regional competitiveness. 
 
An underlying objective of the proposed Loan is to enrich and extend the Government's 
overall program of accelerated reforms over the past two years.  This has been facilitated by the 
country's recent track record of prudent macroeconomic management, supported by an IMF 
Stand-By Arrangement (approved by the IMF board in February 2002).  Peru's GDP growth of 
5.3 percent in 2002 was the highest in LAC, and its inflation rate of 1.5 percent at the end of 
2002 was the second lowest in the region.  The combined fiscal deficit in 2002 declined to -2.1 
percent of GDP, down from -2.3 percent in 2001.  In addition, the country's currency is stable 
and current account deficit is low.  These accomplishments and other measures have enabled the 
economy to substantially improve, contributing to poverty reduction. 
The proposed Loan is nonetheless intended to support further reforms aimed at sustaining 
a sound macroeconomic environment and high economic growth. 
3.  Rationale for Bank’s Invovlement: 
The proposed Decentralization and Competitiveness Loan (DECSAL) has been designed 
to build on and advance the policy dialogue which the Bank’s Programmatic Social Reform 
Loans (PSRLs) created.  It would also help provide a better institutional and financial framework 
for social program reforms now underway.  One direct link is that the proposed operation will 
provide the fiscal discipline needed to give adequate resources for social reform objectives and 
ensure that they are effectively used.  Another is that the DECSAL's civil service reform 
component would directly tie with the PSRL's teacher reform component.  Moreover, both 
operations have participatory and transparency elements.  Public sector reform and 
decentralization issues will also be tackled through: (i) the Decentralization and Municipal 
Development Technical Assistance Loan; (ii) the Justice Services Modernization Project; and 
(iii) the Second Urban Property Rights Project. 
4.  Description: 
The proposed Loan would support the following key elements of the Government's reform 
program over the next three years:  
\01\02
Ensure fiscal sustainability in the new decentralized context 
\01\02
Expand the tax base and strengthen tax administrations 
\01\02
Finance subnational governments in direct proportion to their abilities to discharge the 
responsibilities they will assume 
\01\02
Ensure hard budget constraints at regional and local levels by, among other measures, 
establishing a new regime for subnational borrowing 
Page  4
\01\02
Ensure gradual transfer of resources and responsibilities following a rigorous 
accreditation process of fiscal and management capacities 
\01\02
Stimulate efficient use and maintenance of public assets for resource mobilization and 
development 
\01\02
Reinforce budgeting, accounting and reporting standards at all levels of government for 
improved monitoring, evaluation and planning 
\01\02
Institutionalize community and private sector participation and reinforce transparency in 
the interest of democratic benefits and higher allocation efficiency 
\01\02
Support gradual reform of civil service at subnational levels 
\01\02
Reduce logistic costs and modernize/concession program in infrastructure: ports, access 
roads and multimodal terminals 
\01\02
Improve the quality and  mix of Peruvian products, through a comprehensive quality and 
innovation program coordinated with the private sector 
\01\02
Improve the functioning of the labor market, reducing labor costs 
\01\02
Promote and facilitate export development 
\01\02
Improve the business environment and business climate 
\01\02
Integrate small and medium enterprises into the supply chain and into export consortiums 
\01\02
Provide decentralized service support to the (macro) regions 
5.  Financing: 
Source [Total in US$million] 
IBRD: US$150.0 million 
Total Project Cost: TBD 
6.  Implementation: 
While implementation of the measures would be the responsibility of a wide array of 
agencies, coordination would be under the Ministry of Finance.  Implementation progress would 
be measured against the objectives and indicators in the Letter of Development Policy.  Loan 
disbursement would follow the Bank’s provisions for fast-disbursing operations, which require 
no procurement of goods and services.  The Government has set three principles to guide 
implementation: fiscal neutrality, graduality of the decentralization process, and enhancing 
competitiveness. 
7.  Sustainability: 
Although public debt is high, the continuation of strong economic performance and fiscal 
consolidation  should ensure Peru’s medium term debt sustainability. 
 
The recent rebound in 
growth and gradual fiscal adjustment have contributed to lower Peru’s public debt burden.  
Vulnerability indicators have improved over the past few years.  Public debt ratios, in particular, 
have decreased: the public sector debt ratio is estimated to decrease from 46.1 percent of GDP in 
2002 to 44.3 percent in 2003; and, following a successful Brady bond debt buyback of US$923 
million in February 2002, the public external debt service ratio will decrease from 31.6 percent 
of exports in 2002 to 22.0 percent in 2003.  Nevertheless, at 44 percent of GDP, Peru’s public 
debt burden is relatively high and the higher debt servicing costs expected over the next few 
years will require a more aggressive fiscal adjustment in order to stabilize the debt ratio.  To be 
sure, its current debt profile makes Peru less vulnerable to sudden changes in investor sentiment 
than other Latin American emerging markets.  External debt accounts for about 78 percent of 
Page  5
total debt and is virtually all medium and long term, with almost three-quarters committed to 
multilateral and bilateral creditors.  However, its structure makes it vulnerable to foreign 
exchange and interest rate fluctuations: as of end 2002, 85 percent of public debt was 
denominated in foreign currencies and 57 percent was contracted under variable interest rates. 
While GDP growth has slightly decelerated in 2003, it is estimated that Peru will most 
likely be the second-fastest growing economy in the region after Argentina.  In the medium term, 
sustained and broad based growth would be contingent on the continuation of prudent 
macroeconomic policies, timely implementation of the current structural reform agenda and a 
favorable external environment.  In the medium term, the most likely scenario (the baseline), is 
predicated on the assumption that real GDP and export growth remain robust, the authorities 
maintain fiscal soundness, and macroeconomic conditions remain stable, with average (CPI) 
inflation hovering around 2 percent per year. 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector: 
The proposed Loan would capitalize on lessons learned by: i) supporting government 
commitment to protect fiscal sustainability, especially in view of the high pressures for 
additional government spending that have characterized the first few years of the transition to 
decentralization in Latin America and elsewhere; ii) enhancing transparency, dissemination and 
reporting standards to permit effective central government monitoring and evaluation and make 
possible private sector and civil society participation in planning, budgeting, procurement and 
supervision at regional and local levels; iii) stressing the gradual, proportionate strengthening of 
subnational fiscal, administrative and management capacity needed to improve social programs, 
infrastructure investment and social sectors that are being transferred; iv) introducing efficiency 
signaling as a condition of budget expenditures and budget transfers as a means to stimulate 
greater subnational efficiency; and v) involving subnational governments as agents for increasing  
competitiveness at regional and local levels. 
9.  Environmental Aspects (Including any Public Consultation): 
As a structural adjustment program, the proposed operation does not trigger OP 4.01, 
and, as a consequence, does not require an environmental rating. 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents: 
Background notes as prepared by the team for the Government of Peru as well as the 
IBRD’s Exexcutive Directors. 
11.  Contact Point: 
Task Manager: 
Fernando Rojas 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C.   20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-7963 
Fax: (202) 522-3133/2119 
12.  For Information on Other Project Related Documents Contact: 
The InfoShop 
Page  6
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http:// www. worldbank.org/infoshop 
Note: This is information on an evolving project.  Certain components may not be 
necessarily included in the final project.
 
