Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
cZ I9v-N#E
Report No. 6910-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGER
SNALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
February 22, 1988
Agriculture Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a reshicted dbitbuton and may be used by redpienb only In Me perormance of
thdir offici  dutes. Its contents may Dt otherwie be dicosed wibout Wodd Bank authoizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00=CFAF 295
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND, MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



M0 CIJiciAL UIs ONLY
ABBRVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDIN           Banque de D6voloppement de la Republique du Nigor
(National Development Bank. of Niger)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
(French Aid Loan Agency)
CCM4           Commission Centrale des March6s
(Central Procurement Commission)
CDA            Chef du district agricole
(Agricultural extension agent at canton level)
CID            Canadian International Development Agency
(Agence Canadienne de Ddveloppement International)
OLD            Conseil Local de D6veloppement
(Local Development Council)
CLUsA          Cooperative League of the USA
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Crddit Agricole
(National Agricultural Development Bank)
CND            Conseil National de Ddveloppement
(National Development Council)
COTEAR         Comitd Technique d'Arrondissement
(District Technical Committee)
COTEDEP        Comitd Technique de Departement
(Provindial Technical Committee)
CPP            Comptes Cheques Postaux
(Postal Checking Accounts)
CRD            Conseil Rdgional de Ddveloppement
(Provincial Development Council)
CSRD           Conseil-Sous-Rdgional de D6veloppement
(District Development Council)
CVD            Conseil Villageois de Devel9ppement
(Village Development Council)
DDP            Direction D6partementale du Plan
(Provincial Directorate of Planning)
DDRM           Direction de Ddveloppement REgional et des
Micrordalisations
(Directorate of Regional Development and MicrordalleatiorA)
Thi doument his a res   ditbudon and may be ued by  lsaoyaU    ORh ,m A
of dte obla dodeo. Its cotles may not owW be discot WO   ank   uumL



-iii -
PAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Coop4ration
(French Aid Grant Agency)
YAOICP         Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperation Program
(Organisation pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture/Programme
de Coopbration)
FED            Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(European Development Fund)
FORPROSA       Formation en Analyse de Projets au Sahel
(Training for Project Analysis in the Sahel)
GV             Groupement Villageois
(Village Group)
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
(Fonds International pour le Developpement Agricole)
INRAN          Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques du Niger
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
ISNAR          International Service for National Agricultural Research
(Service International pour la Recherche Agronomique
Agricole)
NDR            Ministere du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rtural Development)
MHE            Ministere de l'Hydraulique et de l'Environnement
(Mlinistry of Water Resources and Environment)
XINAG/E        Ministare de l'Agriculture et de l'Environnement
(Ministry of Agriculture and Environment)
MP             Ministare du Plan
(Ministry of Planning)
MAA/H          Ministare des Ressources Animales et de l'Hydraulique
(Ministry of Animal and Water Resources)
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
(Organisation Non-gouvernementale)
ONAHA          Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles
(National Irrigation Authority)
OPVN           Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
(Grain Marketing Board)
PPF            Project Preparation Facility



- iv -
(Mhcanism de Pinancement de la Preparation des Projets)
PST            Postes, T6lephone et T4lecommunications
(Post Offices)
8AL            Structural Adjustment Lending
(Program. d'Ajustement Structurel)
SCA            Secr6taire G6n4ral Adjoint
(Deputy Secretary General)
603            Statement of Expenditure
8B0            Small Rural Operations
(Petites Operations de Developpement Rural ou
Nicror6alisations)
uLC            Union Locale de Cooperatives
(Local Cooperative Union)
UNC            Union Nationale des CoopEratives
(National Cooperative Union)
UNCC           Union Nigerienne de Credit et de CoopEration
(Nigerien Credit and Cooperative Union)
URC            Union Rdgionale de CoopEratives
(Provincial Cooperative Union)
USIC           Union Sous-Regionale de Cooperatives
(Distri,ct Cooperative Union)



- v -
NIGER
SMALL RURAL OPERATICNS PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABBREVmATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOCMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I         INTRODUCTION
A.  Project Background
S.  The Rural Sector
C.   Institutions
D.  Sector Issues and Strategy
Z.   On-going Small Rural Operations
II        PROJECT OBJZCTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A.   Objectives and Summary Description
B.   Geographic Coverage
C.   Detailed Features
D.  Environmnt Impact
III       PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A.   Cost Estimates
B. Proposed Financing Plan
C.   Procurement
D.   Disbursement
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mlssion to Nlger in
April-May, 1987. Mission members Included Mesdames Noriko Imase
(Zconomist/Leader), Jann Masterson (Operations Assistant), and Messrs.
Francis Mody (Operations Assistant, Resident Mission), G4rard Ribilre
(Agronomist, consultant) and Christian Hoche (Training Specialist,
consultant). The consultant to the then Ministry of Water Resources and
Environment, Mr. Nguyen Quang Trac also contributed to the appraisal
mission. This report was edited and processed by Ms. Josephine Armar and
Mrs. JoAnne Nickerson.



- vi-
IV        ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMENT
A.   Project Execution
B.   Financial Management, Accounts, Audit and Reporting
C.   Capital Replacement Accounts
D.   The Small Rural Operations Project Cycle
Z.  Training
F.   Project Coordination and Implementation
V         TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
VI        FINANCIAL REgSULTS
A.  Demand, Marketing and Prices
B. Financial Implications for Beneficiaries
C.  Financial Implications for Governz*nt
VII       BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  Project Benefits
B.   Economic Analysis
C.  Risks
vIII      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Annexes
2-1       Terms of Reference for Key Technical Assistance
3-1       Project Costs by Component by Year
3-2       Project Costs by Type of Expenditure by Year
3-3       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4-1       Organigrams
6-1       Farm Budgets
6-2       Government Project-related Cashflow
7-1       Economic Costs, Benefits and Rates of Return
MaiDs
IBRD      20646
IBRD      20647



-vii -
NIGER
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Background and PreRaration Documents                                         Code
1.   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,  Niger Small Rural Operations    DOS2S9
Preparation Report (139185 CP-NER 10), December 19, 1985.
2.   Dossiers des petites operations prepares par le Niger:                  D05254
-    projet de mise en valeur de la mare de Sanono
-    relance du perimetre d'Egergarazegren
-    projet de bas-fonds de Bouzae
-    amenagement de bas-fonds pour la pratique intensive des
cultures de contre-saison
-    projet appui aux maraichers d'Aouloumatt
-    projet de mise en valeur de la mare de Tiloa
-    projet fruitier et maralcher de Tombo
-    reprise des infrastructures hydrauliques du site CRD
a Hounitan
-    ddveloppement de la production agricole dans le village de
Karra
-    am6nagement et rEdynamisation de la coopdrativc de Bawadagida
3.   Homont, F., Rapport de mission sur l'Etude des Circuits                 D0SS5
Financiers, le 28 fevrier 1987.
4.   DDRM/Ministry of Planning, Rapport de mission d'evaluation des         D05256
PPODR. Tama et Tara, mai 1986.
S.   DDPA/Ministry of Planning, Evaluation finale des deux                  D05257
sous-proiets de Tama, decembre 1986.
6.   Direction de la Cooperation au Developpement et de l'Aide              D05258
Humanitaire Suisse/Direction de l'Alphabetisation et de la
Formation des Adultes, Rapport de la mission coniointe d'dvalua.
tion du proiet de soutien au programme national d'alphabdtioation
du Niger, juillet 1986.
B. Vorkini Papers
B.1 Les Ressources en Eau et l'Equipement Hydraulique, by consultant
tlguyen Quang Trac.
B.2 Aspect Agronomique, by consultant Gerard Ribibre.
B.3 Mise en oeuvre des micror6alisations et formation, by consultant
Christian Hoche.



- viii -
3.4  Gestion Financ1*re, by Francias Mody, (Resident Mission. Wlamey).
B.5 Analyse Economique, by Francis Mody.
3.6 Project Cost Tables.



- ix -
NIGER
SMALL i4RAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                Republic of Niger.
Beneficiarys             Ministry of Planning.
Credit Amount:           SDR 7.1 million (US$ 9.3 million equivalent).
Terest                   Standard, with a maturity of 40 years.
Proiect Descriltions     The project would help the Government improve its
institutional capability to prepare, appraise,
execute and evaluate small rural operations (SROs)
as well as to provide effective exteneion services
once SROs become operational. The project would
be the first phase of a long-term national program
to support the development of SROs. The project
would finance equipment, vehicles and operating
costs   associated  with   preparationlappraisal/
execution of SROs and improvement of extension
services;  training   and  technical   assistance;
investments such as bottomland improvements, small
irrigated  perimeters,   soil   conservation   and
watershed   management,   and   social    forestry
including village tree nurseries and studies.
Beneficiary farmer groups would contribute part of
the investment costs, bear all operating costs and
accumulate savings to replace renewable assets
such as pumps.
Proiect Benefitss        The most important benefit of the project would be
the development of an institutional capability in
Niger to make sound investment decisions for SROs
and manage   investment  funds.    By   providing
training for local staff and by stream-lining the
organizational structure of the project cycle, the
local  capacity   for  project   preparation   and
execution of SROs would improve. By clarifying
the selection criteria and terms and conditions of
financing, the utilization of funds would be
rationalized  and  the  total  flow  of   external
assistance  for  this  type  of  operation   would
increase.   In  addition   to  the main   project
benefits, which are difficult to quantify, each
SRO would also have substantial benefits such as
increased income, better nutrition and protection
of the environment.



Project Risks:            Firstly, low motivation and poor qualifications of
local   technicians   may   slow   the   pace   of
development:   this   risk  is   expected  to   be
minimized  by  substantial  training,  which   has
already   been   started,   combined   with    the
increasingly effective authority of the Governors.
Secondly, assets created under the project may not
be adequately  maintained.   This  risk  would  be
reduced by insisting on the cash downpayment for
medium-term assets and by establishing *levelopment
contracts to be signed by beneficiaries and local
authorities   laying    down    obligations    and
responsibilities.   Thirdly,   coordination   with
other donors and NGOs  may prove difficult.   This
risk vould be reduced by regular coordination
meetings to be held by the Government and by the
organizational study to examine ways to harmonize
procedures by various donors.
Estimated Costs: a/
2 of
Local     Foreign   Total      base cost
US$ million
Support to technical services        2.4         ..4      3.8        25
Training                             0.8         0.4      1.2         8
Project management unit              0.8         1.1      1.9        13
BRO investment                       3.2        3.1       6.3        42
Studies (including PPF refunding)   0.6         1.3       1.9        12
Total base costs                     7.8         7.3     15.1       100
Contingenciess  physical             0.3         0.3      0.6          4
price               2.0         0.3      2.3         15
Total project costs                 10.1         7.9     18.0       119
a/  Inclusive of taxes and duties which are negligible.
Financing Plan:                     US$ million            2
Government                              0.9                5
IDA                                     9.3               52
Switzerland (SF12.5 million)            7.8               43
Total                                  18.0              100



- xi -
Estimated Disbursementss (US$ million)
FY88   FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Annual          0      2.5   0.9   1.2    1.6    1.5    1.1    0.5
Cumulative      0      2.5   3.4   4.6    6.2    7.7    8.8    9.3
Economic Rate of Returns             Bottomland Models            222
Pump Irrigation Models      302
Mapst Nos. IBRD 20646 and 20647



NIGER
SMALL RURAL OPKRATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Proiect Background
1.01      A small rural operations (SRO)  project was first proposed by  an
IDA mission  which visited  Niger in August 1980.   In October  1981,  IDA
approved a credit advance of US$430*000 to the Government under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) to support project preparation. A mission of
the FAO/CP, the first in a series of FAO/CP and IDA missions, visited Niger
In February-March 1982 to assist the Goversment in identifying a project
for possible IDA financing and make arrangements for its preparation.
Three pilot operations were launched in mid-1982 by the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) with PPF funding. The PPF credit also financed operating
costs of the Directorate for Regional Development and Microrealizations
(DDRM), which was established at the Ministry of Planning (MP) in December
1984  to  assume  coordinating  responsibilities  for  SROs,  as well   as
consultant services and a nitional seminar on *micro-rdalisations' held at
Zinder in February 1985. FAOICP conducted a feasibility study based on
selected model SROs, which was submitted in early 1986. While these three
operations did not  fully meet  expectations, important  lessons have  been
learned about the need for careful preparation with the beneficiary
community and  effective follow-up  by  local staff.      Subsequently,  IDA
requested that the Government prepare a work program consisting of a dozen
or so  SROo in  conjunction with  FORPROSA, the  FAO training  program  for
project analysis.
1.02      The  preparation  phase  was  thus  unusually  long  because   of
difficulties in deciding on an  appropriate institutional framework and  in
changing Government's perception that large-scale projects were more
effective than small-scale projects. Preparation was finally completed at
the end of March, 1987 and an appraisal mission visited Niger in April-May.
Based on ten SROs already prepared by local staff, the appraisal team
focused on  the  harmonization of  selection  criteria and  the  terms  and
conditions  of  the  beneficiaries'  contribution,  the  organization   and
management of the SRO project cycle, and local capability of preparation,
appraisal, execution, and evaluation.
B. The Rural Sector
Resource Base
1.03      Niger is a land-locked country, bound by Algeria and Libya to the
north, Chad to the east, Nigeria to the south, and Mali, Burkina Faso and
Benin to the west. Niger's closest access to the sea is about 600 km from
its southern border. The country covers 1.27 million km2, of which 75? is



desert, 152 semi-arid and less than 102 suitable for crop cultivation. The
population, estimated at 6.1 million in 1983, is growing at an annual rate
of 3.01. It is among the poorest countries in the world, with a per capita
GNP of US$200  in 1985.   Although agriculture remains  the most  important
economic  activity  and  the   principal  livelihood  of  the   population;
accounting for about half of the GDP and about 202 of the country's
expotts, the country  is constrained by  poor agricultural resources.   Per
capita availability of arable land with at least 600 mm precipitation, and
per capita availability of irrigable land are only one third of the average
for the Sahelian countries. About 102 of the land receives an average
350-600 mm of rainfall, and about 12 of the land receives 600-800 mm of
rainfall; there is no area receiving more than 800 mm. Soils are generally
poor with little organic matter and poor capacity to retain nutrients.
Rainfall is not only scant but also irregular, making Niger vulnerable to
droughts. Rainfall during the last decade has been frequently below
average, although it is not yet known if this !ower average is a continuous
long-term phenomenon.
1.04      Nigerien agriculture is largely subsistence-based, producing  low
value crops such as millet (supplying about 752 of the total cereals
production) and sorghum (providing about 202). The most important export
commodity in the agricultural sector is livestock (cattle on the hoof)
followed by cowpeas. With irrigated lands representing about two percent
of the total cultivated area, the contribution of the irrigation subsector
to national agricultural production is limited.
1.05      Despite its meager  resource base, Niger  has traditionally  been
self-sufficient in food production except during the severe drought
periods. However, production has been increased to keep up with population
growth by shortening fallow periods and cultivating more marginal lands.
The over exploitation of the vegetative cover caused by human and animal
population pressure has led to a decline of soil fertility and to soil
degradation. As a consequence, traditional farming systems, based on long
fallow periods as a way to generate soil fertility, are breaking down.
This degradation of the environment has been further compounded by repeated
droughts.
C. Institutions
Local Government
1.06      The village (some 10,000 in  total) is the basic territorial  and
social entity in Niger. Several villages make up a "canton' (of which
there are more than 200), each governed by a chief who is elected by the
chiefs of the villages concerned and receives a Government allowance.   The
35 districts ('arrondissements*) are legal entities and have autonomous
budgets funded from local fees and taxes, Government transfer payments and
loans from the  aCaisse des  prets aux  collectivites territorialesn.   The
districts are governed by district Governors ('sous-pr4fets'), who report
to their respective provincial Governors. The seven provinces are the
highest administrative  subdivisioas.   These are  governed  by  provincial



-3-
Governors (Oprofets0), appointed as the personal representative of the
President.
1.07      The district and provincial  Governors coordinate the  Government
services  in   their  area   through  technical   committees  under   their
chairmanship ("comit6s techniques d'arrondissements' - COTEAR, "comites
techniques de departementsn - COTEDEP). The provincial Governors are
seconded by a Secretary General and his deputy ("Secr4taire General
Adjoint' - SGA)  who is  the provincial  Director of  the MP.   The SGA  is
specifically responsible for all development activities in his province.
Development Society
1.08      The structure  of provincial  and district  technical  committees
(COTEDEP and COTEAR) under the chairmanship of the provincial and district
Governors is gradually being replaced by the Development Society ("Soci4te
de Developpement"). The idea was first proposed by the President around
1974  as  an  organization  through  which  each  member  of  the   Society
conscientiously participates  in  the  development  of  the  country.   The
Development Society is a hierarchical structure of development councils (as
stipulated in the ordonnance no.83-26 of August 4, 1983) at village
("conseil villageois de developpement" - CVD), 'canton ("conseil local de
d4veloppement" - CLD), district ("conseil sous-regional de dUveloppement' -
CSRD), provincial ("conseil regional de d4veloppement' - CRD) and national
levels (Iconseil  national  de  developpement -  CND).   These  development
councils are presided by the village chief, the 'canton' chief, the
district and provincial Governors and   the president of CND  respectively.
They are in charge of development activities from conception to decision
making  and  management.   Their  members  consist  of  representatives  of
cooperatives,   Samarya   (youth    groups),   social   and    professional
organizations.
1.09      The  Development  Society  thus  calls  for  decentralization  in
decision-making and management of development activities from central
ministries to provincirl and district authorities. Although the transition
of power to the local authorities has been slow and there still exist
centralized administrative procedures (e.g., procurement), there are strong
evidences that provincial Governors exercise more control over development
activities in  their provinces  than before.   The proposed  project  would
enhance   the   decentralization   process   by   giving   authority    and
responsibilities to the provincial and district Governors and SGAs in
managing an important SRO investment program.
Cooperatives
1.10      The cooperative  movement  is based  on  a system  of  collective
membership covering villages, or sections of villages in the case of large
villages. Village groups (*groupements villageois' - GV) have been formed
and 5-10 GVs are grouped into a cooperative. A GV is constituted by heads
of households in a village or each section of a village. Since May 1984,
irrsgation cooperatives which carry out marketing operations have also been



-4-
specifically recognized and are gradually managing their own financial
operations.
1.11      Cooperative unions ("unions locales* - ULC, Isous-rdgionales* -
USRC, 'r4gionalesa- URC) are constituted at the different local and
regional levels.   The  "Union nationale  des  cooperatives' (UNC)  is  the
cooperative apex organization, officially covering 10,628 GVs, 1,167
cooperatives, 213 ULCs, 40 USRCs and 9 URCs. It is the successor to the
'Union nigerienne  de credit  et de  coop4ration' (UNCC) which, since  its
creation in 1962 until the late 1970s. gained a solid reputation for
promoting   cooperatives.    UNCC's   cooperative   promotion   and   input
distribution activities were combined with, and often subordinated to,
other functions such as the assembling and manufacturing of agricultural
machinery, the management of development projects and the supply of
foodstuffs to remote areas.  UNCC became heavily indebted and was disbanded
in 1984. Its successor organization UNC inherited a cooperative system
without an economic basis. UNC has a limited number of staff; four
officials at headquarters, two at each URC, and one at each USRC. Most GVs
and cooperatives are inactive due to the lack of common economic activities
and of effective training of cooperative members. The proposed project may
indirectly help vitalize the cooperative movement by financing group
investments to be managed by village groups; such shared enterprises may
well become the catalysts of other group initiatives.
Government Technical Services
1.12      The main Government  service agencies supporting  SROs have  been
the Ministry of Planning (HP); the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR),
which in 1985 was split into the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG) and the
Ministry of Animal Resources (MRA); and the Ministry of Water Resources and
the Environment (MHE). The latter three ministries were reorganized again
in September 1987 into two ministriess the Ministry of Agriculture and
Environment (MINAG/E) and the Ministry of Animal and Water Resources
(MRA/H).
1.13      The MP is responsible for planning national and regional economic
and social development. It draws up development plans, prepares investment
budgets and reviews their execution, evaluates pre-investment studies, and
coordinates foreign aid.   Three departments  have a direct  role in  SROs:
"Direction du developpement regional et des micro-realisations (DDRM)',
"Direction  de  l'evaluation  et   de  la  programmation',  'Direction   du
financement des investissements". In November 1986, the MP reorganized and
strengthened provincial and district services. At the provincial levels,
Provincial Directorates of Planning (Directions Departmentales du Plan -
DDP) were created by regrouping Provincial Services of Planning and of
Animation. Each DDP has the following services: 'le Service des Etudes et
de lAm6nagement du Territoire' (Studies and Regional Land Management); Ole
Service des Projets et Micro-rdalisations* (Small Rural Operations); Ile
Service  de  la  Statistique  et  de  la  Documentation'  (Statistics   and
Documentation); Ole Service du Developpement Communautaire' (Coamunity
Development)   and  "la   Division   Administrative   et   du    Mat6riel"
(Administration  and  Equipment).   DDP   is  administratively  under   the



Secretary General of the MP but hierarchically under the Ministry of the
Interior and Provincial Directors of Planning are Deputy Secretaries
General (SGAs). While the Secretary General of the Province assumes mainly
administrative responsibilities, the SGA is responsible for coordinating
development programs in the province concerned and for control over their
implementation. At the district levels, District Services of Planning
(Oles Services d'Arrondissements du  Plan") were newls created,  consisting
of Divisions of Studies and Programming; of Monitoring and Evaluation; and
of Community Development.   The District  Services have not  yet been  well
staffed and are presently staffed with former "animation* agents (Annex
4-1).
1.14      Until recently  the  MDR was  responsible  for  agriculture  and
livestock production, research and extension. It .tlso managed farmer
training centers and supervised the public agencies which intervene in
production (ONAHA), credit  (CNCA), and marketing  (OPVN).   MDR had  three
operational  departments:   "Direction  des  services  de   l'agriculture',
"Direction de l'elevage et des industries animalese and "Direction du genie
rural*. In September 1985 the first two departments became two separate
ministries, MINAG and MRA, and the last one remained a department of the
MINAG.
1.15      The  MINAG   had  five   Directorates  at   the  central   level:
Directorates  of  Agricultural  Production   (responsible  for   extension
services, seeds production and cooperatives support); of Plant Protection;
of Studies, Programming and Agricultural Statistics; of Rural Engineering
and of Administration and Pinance. These five Directorates are also
represented at the provincial levels. Agricultural services are provided
at the district levels, dealing with plant protection, statistics and
extension services. Below the district levels, there is little activity.
There are extension agents at "canton" levels but they are immobile with no
means of transport or operating costs. About half of the posts are vacant.
Aside from externally financed development projects, extension services do
not exist or have only limited activity and efficiency. In September 1987,
the MINAG absorbed two Directorates from the former MHE, namely the
Directorates  of  Forestry  and  Fishery,   to  become  the MINAG/E.    An
organizational structure of the new Ministry has not yet been officially
announced.
1.16      The KRA similarly absorbed two Directorates from the former MHE,
namely the Directorates of Water Resources and Hydraulic Works, to become
the MRA/H. The MRA/H also has an important role in supporting SROs, as it
is in charge of livestock development as well as water resource inventories
and hydraulic infrastructure.
1.17      Under the  new structure  of the  Development Society,  technical
services participate in activities of development councils in a consulting
capacity. In practice, COTEAR and COTEDEP prepare documents of project
proposals to be submitted to respective development councils for approval.
At the district levels where most of the preparation work is done,
agriculture,  forestry,   livestock  and   planning  staff   are   normally



-6-
represented. Rural Engineering (MINAG/E) and Water Resources (NRA/H) are
represented only at the provincial level.
Financial Institutions
1.18      The National Development Bank of the Republic of Niger (BDRN)  is
the  main  commercial  and  development  bank  with  11  branches   located
throughout the country and in all provincial capitals. It collects around
702 of all deposits and provides about 802 of all domestic loans to the
economy. The financial health of BDRN declined dramatically in the early
1980s due to the general economic slump, which resulted in a high level of
repayment  arrears  on  outstanding  loans  to  both  private  and   public
enterprises, and because of weak structures and management within the bank
itself. Under the Structural Adjustment Lending (SAL), BDRN has been
rehabilitated with a view to consolidating its finances, improving its
profitability and strengthening its management.
1.19      The National Agricultural Development Bank (CNCA) was established
in 1967 from a service of UNCC to provide input supply and marketing credit
for the cooperative movement. CNCA had virtually no field representation
and depended  on UNCC  staff to  handle operations.   CNCA has  outstanding
credits of CFAF 7.5 billion (US$ 25 million), most of which are considered
unrecoverabJe. CNCA was forced to deviate from its original mandate and
turned to  prefinancing  operating   funds  for  some  externally  financed
development projects and financing seasonal credits and operating deficits
of public enterprises, directing less than 20? of its resources to farmers.
Also the lack of stringent criteria for credit allocation and repayment has
led to a high delinquency rate. Under SAL (para. 1.28), the Government has
stopped new credit operations of CNCA since the end of 1985.
1.20      Postal checking accounts ("comptes cheques postaux" - CCP) can be
opened at post offices ("Postes, Telephone et Tel6covmunications' - PTT) in
all the provincial and district capitals. CCP/PTT ar6 therefore the most
widely represented  financial institutions.   CCP accounts  are  centrally-
managed by the CCP Niamey office through PTT's network of telexes and
telephones. Although CCP does not provide overdraft facilities nor credit,
it provides other financial services such as payment by checks, transfer of
funds between different financial institutions and weekly statements of
accounts.
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
1.21      More than 30 NGOs are active in Niger and each operates under  an
operating agreement with MP (DDRM). Some 21 are members of the Private Aid
Group which coordinates their programs and serves as a communications
channel with Nigerien authorities. The SRO projects implemented by NGOs
are put forward by local NGOs and/or Government staff. In order to be
implemented, an agreement is approved by the provincial Governor and DDRM.
An executing agreement is then established at the district level between
the NGO, the responsible technical service and/or the district Governor.
Usually a Government technical agent and an NGO staff member are jointly
responsible for the implementation of rural works and both their signatures



-7-
are required to disburse funds from a special project account, which is
opened at a local bank, usually BDRN. Accounting is generally handled
centrally by the NGO.
1.22      The NGOs  financial means  are limited,  and project  approaches,
subproject selection criteria, responsibilities of beneficiaries, and
involvement of Government and NGO staff vary considerably among the
different  organizations.   However,  they   have  a  privileged  role   in
implementing SR0s. Their contributions are recognized especially at the
provincial level where they are often approached directly for assistance.
D. Sector Issues and Strategy
Recent Policy Dialogue
1.23      The end of the uranium  boom and the ambitious public  investment
program have left Niger with a heavy foreign debt which reached 54? of GDP
in 1983. Faced with deteriorating economic conditions, the Government has
taken various actions to reduce the domestic and external financial
Imbalances, which have been supported by IDF Standby arrangements and
complemented with an IDA Structural Adjustment Lending (SAL).
1.24      The first phase  of the  adjustment programs  in the  agriculture
sector concentrated on the areas where inefficiencies are most acute and
where policy reforms would improve the country's budgetary and balance of
payments' position.   Specifically,  the  following four  areas  have  been
addressed: (a) grain marketing and pricing policy; (b) agricultural input
subsidy; (c) agricultural credit; and (d) agricultural research.
1.25      Grain Marketing and Pricing Policy.  One of the key  agricultural
policy reforms relates to the operation of the cereals marketing and
storage agency (OPVN). In the past, OPVN intervened in cereals markets in
order to support producer prices, keep consumer prices down and minimize
price  fluctuations.   The  price   stabilization  operations  were   often
ineffective, yet very costly in terms of public resources. Under the SAL,
the Government has decided to reduce OPVN's mandate to managing security
stocks only, which will contain no  more than 80,000 tons of cereals.   The
system of official price regulation for coarse grains has been abandoned
and OPVN is to perform most of its buying and selling operations through a
tender system of competitive bidding.
1.26      The implementation  of  these  reforms  proved  difficult  during
198586, partly because of the exceptional circumstances which prevailed.
The severe drought of 1984 was followed by a bumper harvest in 1985 and
therefore a fall in cereal prices. This led OPVN at the end of 1985 to
continue purchase operations, some of them at fixed producer prices,
despite a record level of stocks due to late arrivals of food aid. At the
mid-term review of the SAL, the Government agreed on an action plan to
implement the agreed reforms by (a) no cereals purchase in 1986/1987 until
its stocks reach below the maximum level of 80,000 tons; (b) destocking
those cereals that run the risk of rapidly deteriorating; and (c) no
announcement of an official price for the 1986/87 crop year, not even an



*indicative price".
1.27      Agricultural Inputs.  The reduction of subsidies for agricultural
inputs aims at encouragin-g efficient production of agricultural implements
and efficient use of agricultural inputs, while 1sssening the burden on the
budget. The Government abolished the subsidy on agricultural implements in
1985 and is committed to gradually reducing rates of subsidization of other
agricultural inputs.
1.28      Agricultural Credit.  Measures in the area of agricultural credit
under the SAL aimed at reducing the current system's (CNCA) financial
losses while a new system is being studied. The Government decided to stop
new credit operations of CNCA as from the end of 1985. Various studies
made it clear that the limited demand for agricultural credit in Niger does
not  justify   the  existence   of  a   specialized  self-standing   credit
institution. The Government has, therefore, recently decided to create a
task force to work out the details of another more cost effective system of
agricultural credit.   Until such  a  system is  established,  agricultural
credit would be provided only on a limited basis through existing projects.
The proposed project would not provide seasonal or investment credit (para.
2.06).
1.29      Agricultural Research.   The  future  development  of   Nigerien
agriculture largely depends on technological improvements which would make
its limited  resource  base more  productive  at a  reasonable  cost.   The
standard technical package for rainfed agriculture based on chemical
fertilizers, single cropping and animal traction does not respond to
farmers' constraints and priorities and has failed to be widely adopted.
Extreme variations in micro-climates and soil conditions make it difficult
to apply a standard technical package to large areas.
1.30      While the prospects for a significant technological  breakthrough
are not bright, progress can nevertheless be achieved in improving farming
systems by a cautious adaptation of some modern techniques to local systems
and by inexpensive improvements in traditional agricultural techniques.
The performance of the national agricultural research agency (INRAN),
however, was disappointing. Its bias towards basic research neglected
urgently needed adaptive and farming system research. Recognizing the need
to redefine INRAN's research priorities, the Government has initiated a
study, with assistance from ISNAR, to evaluate a current system of
agricultural research  and establish  a long  term research  program.   The
draft report was completed in July 1987.
1.31      Public  Investment  Strategy.   An  important  component  of  the
adjustment programs  in  the  agriculture  sector  is  concerned with  the
reorientation of  the  investment  strategy  for  the  rural  sector.   The
long-term investment strategy hinges on the potential of agricultural
resources and on technological development. The Government has launched a
major rural sector study, financed by SPPF, to reassess the agricultural
potential and a survey of the agricultural research system. Until the
studies are completed and can propose a long-term strategy, the Government
interim strategy consists of a pragmatic investment selection policy, aimed



at making the best use of existing technologies with maximum participation
of the rural population, while supporting long-term technological research
for an integrated agricultural/livestock/forestry system. The Government
also promotes improved cost recovery not only to reduce the burden on its
budget  but  also  to  ensure  sustainability  of  investment,  by   making
beneficiaries  more  involved  in  decision  making  and  responsible   for
operation and naintenance of investments made.
Experience with Past Lending and Lessons Learned
1.32      Development efforts in the  past decade or so  have proven to  be
inadequate to increase the productivity of the agricultural resource base,
or to even  prevent further deterioration.   The Bank has  so far  financed
three projects in rainfed agriculture (Dosso, Maradi I and II); and two in
irrigation (Namarigoungou and Irrigation Rehabilitation); two in forestry
(Forestry I  and  II);  and  one in  livestock.   In  rainfed  agriculture,
although Maradi I was successfully concluded, both Dosso and Maradi II have
had implementation problems and failed to achieve the expected increase in
crop production, largely because of inadequate technical packages under
less favorable climatic conditions than a decade ago. While Dosso was
terminated at the closing date due to the weak management in place, Maradi
II has been extended and reoriented to (a) encourage farmers' initiative
and participation and to make them more responsible for development
activities;   (b)  develop  a village-based  extension  system;  and   (c)
gradually  reduce  technical  assistance  and  cut  operating  costs.   The
experiences of SR09 under the Maradi II project are described in para.
1.41.
1.33      The Dosso project, approved by the Board in December 1979, became
effective in February 1981 and was closed in June 1985 with only 162
(US$3.2 million) disbursed out of the  total credit of US$20 million.   The
Project Completion Report (PCR) concludes that the impact of the Dosso
project  on  production  increases  was  marginal  and  that  adoption   of
insufficiently proven technical messages by  farmers was very limited.   In
addition to the technical problems, the Dosso project suffered from a weak
management  structure,  which  depended  on  the  existing   administrative
institutions, such as provincial services of technical ministries, UNCC and
CNCA for project execution. The project manager was supposed to coordinate
technical and financial activities of various government services involved
in the project, but his authority was never accepted by provincial chiefs
of Government services. The PCR, however, points out some positive results
of the project, in particular the development of bottomland for vegetable
production, which apart from providing participating farmers with higher
revenues has contributed to set up methods and rules for similar operations
in other areas. However, most of the bottomland was rapidly neglected
after the Dosso project wound up. This shows that land development is not
sufficient to assure  continuity of  successful production.   Institutional
arrangements are indispensable to provide beneficiaries with technical
assistance and advice over a number of years.
1.34      In  irrigation,  given  the  high  costs  of  developing   modern
irrigation schemes, the less than satisfactory operation and maintenance



10 -
practices  of  the   existing  schemes  and   the  limited  surface   water
availability, priority should be given to rehabilitating the existing
systems  and  to  developing   small  scale  irrigation.   The   Irrigation
Rehabilitation project, presented to the Board in June 1985, aims at
establishing an effective system of operation and maintenance of the
existing infrastructure including improved cost recovery measures. Because
of  continuously  declining world  prices   of  rice  combined with   the
appreciation of the CFA franc vis-&-vis the US dollar, and the late
reaction of the Government to temporarily protect local rice by import
duties, marketing of locally prodused rice is facing a serious problem at
the moment.
1.35      The major lessons learned from the past experiences are:
(a) Heterogenous soils and localized rainfall patterns make wide
application of a single technical package difficult;
(b)  Areas  with  good  production  potential  exist  but  are   quite
localized and of a limited size;
(c) Consequently, it is necessary to establish a system which is more
flexible and cost effective than a large-scale productivity
project with heavy management structures to tap this localized
potential;
'd) Participation of rural population in decision making, execution
and  maintenance  is   crucial,  and   self-help  endeavors   and
decentralization should be encouraged; and
(e)  Services  and   advice  provided   to  farmers   by  the   public
administration have to be upgraded.
Bank's Lending Strategy
1.36      IDA's lending program in the first half of the eighties consisted
of an average of two projects per year amounting to about US$20 million.
The  program  was  small  largely   because  of  difficulties  in   project
preparation. The strong policy dialogue that has developed over the last
years between IDA and the Government has led to a substantial increase in
lending. The total of the PY86 lending program was US$117.8 million to
support structural adjustment program and operations in the health and
transport sectors, followed by the FY87 lending program of US$98.4 million.
1.37      The objective of the Bank's lending and economic and sector work
programs for Niger is to support the Government in its adjustment process
and to address issues relating to long-term growth. To address the longer
term development issues, IDA assistance will focus on alleviating the
country's  severe  resource  constraints,   with  particular  emphasis   on
increasing agricultural production and human resource development, while
promoting population control.



- 11 -
1.38      In rainfed  farming at  600 mm/year  or less,  projects aimed  at
intensifying production through fertilizer and animal traction have  failed
(paras. 1.32 and 33). In recognition of these failures, an SPPF-financed
rural sector study has been launched to reassess the agricultural potential
of the meager resource base and to devise measures to realize such
potential. In addition, a survey of the agricultural research system is
well under way, aiming to prioritize research themes and to make the
research institutions more effective, and this study is expected to lead to
a research project.   Meantime, the proposed  project aims to  make use  of
existing technologies where local conditions are favorable, albeit on a
small scale, to generate rural income, thus complementing the broader IDA
strategy. Moreover, the proposed project would strengthen the capability
and credibility of technical staff of the public administration, which
would lay a basis for the broader endeavors of improving agricultural
support services in the future. In addition to the proposed project, IDA
is helping the Government prepare a rural resource management project which
will attempt to address issues of land management and integration of
agriculture and livestock.
E. On-Going Small Rural Operations
1.39      The concept of an  SRO project arises  from frustration over  the
limited success  of past  large-scale productivity  projects.   Recognizing
this, the Government organized a seminar in Zinder in November 1982 on the
organization of agricultural development projects and related policies, to
search  for  new   development  approaches.   The   major  thrust  of   the
recommendations,  proposed  at  the  seminar  and  later  endorsed  by  the
Government,  is   a  transfer   of  responsibility   from  parastatals   to
beneficiaries, with the intention of implementing self-management of
development activities.
1.40      Local authorities and NGOs are  carrying out SROs throughout  the
country. They have complemented the activities of regional and sectorial
investment projects, and have helped to mitigate the food shortage caused
by the recent 1984/85 drought by intensifying dry season crop production.
Their activities, however, have been carried out according to many
different rules imposed  by various NGOs.   Furthermore, disappointed  with
the failure of the large-scale productivity projects, major donors are
increasingly interested in this SRO approach. Three existing projects have
been  revised   to   include  SRO-type   activities   (Diffa-CIDA,   Maradi
II-IDA/CCCE/IFAD, Niamey-USAID). FED and CIDA have units in DDRM to finance
SROs. Other donors and NGOs are already involved in or are considering
getting involved in SROs.
1.41      Under   the   reoriented   Maradi   II   project   (financed   by
IDA/CCCE/IFAD),  a  program   of  SROs   ("Programme  d'actions   d'interAt
collectif") was initiated in 1985. Most demands have been so far for small
irrigation  schemes  for  vegetable  production  from  shallow  wells   and
cooperative input banks, whiclb have proven to be reasonably successful.
Since the start-up of the program, the Maradi project financed 198 wells
for vegetable production, a number of them using portable pumps, 48 input



- 12 _
banks, 25 mill dehullers, and 15 cooperative retail stores.   Beneficiaries
deposit 52 of the total costs as initial downpayment in a bank account and
the funds deposited are to be used to renew medium-term assets and/or to
finance other investments in the village. However procedures have in a
number of cases been distorted.  Farmers have been urged, under pressure r
administrative authorities or project management, to request SROs wit
little justification, without having been properly informed of thei
commitments and of financial consequences. Downpayments have sometimes
been made by the administration instead of the farmers and withdrawn as
soon as investments were completed. Goods for retail stores have been
procured by  local  officials  at excessive  cost.   This  illustrates  the
importance of a relevant institution in order to closely monitor a program
which should not proceed too rapidly. At the request of the Bank, the
Maradi It project has discontinued new investments and concentrates upon
improving existing SROs. In the light of the Maradi project's experiences
with SROs, the proposed project would reinforce training for district and
provincial staff (paras. 2.15 - 2.17) and harmonize selection criteria
applied by different sources of financing (para. 4.24).
1.42      In an  effort  to  establish unified  guidelines  for  SROs,  the
Government organized a seminar on the general rules of SRO operations in
Zinder in February 1985 (*Sdminaire de Zinder sur les regles aen4rales de
fonctionnement des micror4alisations") which defined the general selection
criteria as follows:
(a) existence of organized basic structures for SRO implementation;
(b)  physical  and/or   financial  participation   of   beneficiaries:
physical participation is mandatory in all cases; financial
participation is required if renewable assets are involved;
(c) existence of capacity of technical and administrative advices and
supervision;
(d)  conformity  with  the   technical  and   financial  capacity   of
beneficiaries  (levels  of  technology  adopted  and   sufficient
financial resources to bear recurrent costs);
(e) capacity to sustain operation (replacement and reinvestment); and
(f) conformity with the national and provincial development strategy.
The above guidelines, however, are not yet specific enough for operational
use. The seminar simply noted that specific criteria would be determined
by the nature of operations (productive, non-productive, etc.), by sector
and by objective of each operation. The proposed project is expected to
help  set  up  a  unified  approach  (selection  criteria,   beneficiaries'
participation, etc.) so that other donors could fund similar activities in
a consistent fashion.
1.43      The Government  and NGO  staff  have reported  that  considerable
demand for SROs exists, but that only a small part is articulated by the



- 13 -
communities in the form of concrete project proposals. As of June 1985 an
inventory compiled by DDRM showed that about 400 SROs were either on-going
or submitted  as proposals  by  local Government  services and  NGOs.   The
inventory contains information for each project on location, type, cost,
funding agency  and  status.   Out  of 400  SROs,  around  180  were  being
implemented, 90 were under consideration for external financing and 130
were awaiting financing or lacked project documents. Some 290 of the SROs
were for agriculture;   the main  demand is for  irrigation (30?),  general
agricultural support (252), forestry (201), animal production and fishery
(102) and various  other activities including  soil protection (152).   The
experience of DDRM suggests that some 80-100 SOs are requested annually.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Obiectives and Summary Descrintion
2.01      Proiect Obiectives.  The proposed project would aim to develop  a
local capability to prepare, appraise, execute, and evaluate small rural
operations with active participation of the rural population as well as to
provide effective  extension once  SROs  become operational.   The  project
would strengthen the capabilities of the provincial and district technical
staff who would assist farmers in the design, preparation and execution of
SROs. The project is seen as the first phase of a program of IDA support
for SR0s  which  would eventually  have  a national  scope.   Although  the
project is to finance  productive investments (both in  the short and  long
terms) in grant form, an increase in production is not in itself the
primary objective; rather, it is a result of a concerted effort to support
local initiatives by providing adequate technical advice and clearly
defined rules for financing. More than two-thirds of investments to be
financed under the project are consistent with four models which were
elaborated based on ten SROs prepared by Nigerien staff as well as on an
examination of requests in the DDRM inventory. The specific SRO models
would increase crop, fruit and fuelwood production, enhance security of
production, generate employment, protect the environment and raise rural
living standards.
2.02      Summary Description.   The project  would finance  the  following
specific items during a seven and half year disbursement period:
(a) support to field technical services;
(b)  training  of  local  personnel   and  beneficiaries  in   project
preparation, appraisal, evaluation and management;
(c) strengthening the management structure within DDRM (the DDRM
unit) with the required technical and administrativo staff and
logistical support;
(d) development of bottomlands averaging 15-20 ha each for production
of cereals, root crops, vegetables, and fruits;



- 14 -
(e) construction and equipment of irrigation perimeters of an average
18 ha each for production of vegetables, fruits and cereals;
(f) execution of soil conservation projects of about 150 ha each;
(g) establishment of village forest and fruit tree nurseries (these
would be included in SROs (d)-(f) above or independent);
(h) execution of some 8ROs which have not yet been identified, such
as aquaculture and apiculture; and
(i) studies.
2.03      An investment program for the year zero prepared by beneficiaries
with assistance from technical staff includes eight bottomlands development
from shallow wells (1 with portable pumps) and two small-scale irrigation
schemes with storage and irrigation basins and PVC distribution pipes.
Host of  them have  village  nurseries for  live  fences and  some  erosion
control works (windbreaks). It is difficult to estimate how many SROs per
each model would be requested by beneficiaries. However, it is assumed
that around 45 bottomlands development, 15 small irrigation perimeters, 15
soil conservation works, and 20 village forest and fruit tree nurseries
would be requested during a five year project implementation period. It is
likely that one SRO would include more than one model.
2.04      Subproiect Selection  Criteria.   In  order to  be  selected  for
financing under the project, SROs would have to meet the satisfactory
criteria, demonstrating that they:
(a) are directly productive farming activities in conformity with the
national and provincial development strategy;
(b) are financially self supporting;
(c)  are within the project area;
(d) are requested by and are manifestly in the interest of a group or
groups of producers;
(e) can be easily maintained by beneficiaries; and
(f) are environmentally sound.
For SROs which are other than the models already identified, IDA would
thoroughly examine the financ14l and economic viability of a representative
model when such activities are requested for the first time (para. 4.21).
2.05      It  is  essential  that  a  test  of  the  beneficiaries'  strong
commitment to maintain investments made by the project in grant form be
made. In addition to unskilled labor and locally available construction
materials (e.g. sand, gravels), beneficiaries would therefore have to make
a downpayment on a Capital Replacement Account to be followed by anaual



- 15 -
payments if there are medium-term assets (motor pumps, animals etc) (para.
4.16). Furthermore, beneficiaries would be required to reimburse the costs
of materials financed by the project for the construction of wells (cement,
iron, etc.). The reimbursement funds would be used for other investments
to benefit  those  who did  not  benefit  from the  grant  investment.   An
exception  to  the   reimbursement  rule   could  be   made,  however,   to
self-standing erosion control works and village nurseries, benefits from
which are deferred,   In these  cases, physical contribution  alone in  the
form of unskilled labor would suffice. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the above selection criteria (paras. 2.04 and 2.05) would
be applied to SROs yet to be prepared as well as to unidentified SROs.
2.06      In spite of the absence of a reliable agricultural credit bank in
Niger, the project would not finance seasonal or investment credit, given
the small size of the subprojects, their wide geographic dispersion, and
the difficulties and costs which would be involved in supervising and
recovering the credit. Medium-term renewable assets would be provided to
beneficiaries by the Government on condition that beneficiaries contribute
and initial downpayment, prior to start-up, on capital replacement accounts
and pay an annuity thereafter. Agricultural inputs could be financed as
part of investment costs only for the first year if financial analyses
indicate that revenues generated from operations would cover such annual
expenditures which beneficiaries are responsible for financing thereafter.
Since grant financing for SROs would not substitute for individual short
term  or  commercial  credit,  commercial  activities  such  as   livestock
fattening programs, grain mills and village retail stores would not be
included.
2.07      Tracks,   schools,   dispensaries   and   other    non-productive
investments would not come under the scope of the project, in a deliberate
effort to (a) avoid duplicating existing national programs such as primary
health and education; (b) concentrate effort on production in light of the
lack  of  productive  investment   opportunities;  and  (c)  simplify   the
coordination task.
B. Geoaraphic Coverage
2.08      Project actions would initially concentrate on selected districts
in the Niamey, Dosso and Tahoua departments. The selection of these three
departments is based on (i) the criteria of opportunities of mobilizing
scarce management resources (e.g. outside the already heavily organized
Maradi -IDAICCCE/IFAD and Zinder -CCCE/FAC projects); (i) demand (i.e.
where potential beneficiaries would generate significant clusters of
requests for subprojects); (iii) obvious sectoral concentrations (e.g.
small-scale irrigation based on lift from surface water, bottomland
development, for which there is potential in all three departments); and
(iv) localization of project actions within a reasonable radius from the
DDRM unit in Niamey.
2.09      The phasing  in  of  individual  SROs is  based  on  a  gradually
increasing capacity  to identify,  prepare and  appraise operations.   This
capacity would be strengthened under the project. In order not to disperse



- 16 -
efforts too thinly over wide geographic areas from the outset, project
actions would initially (during project years 1-2) mainly be implemented in
two districts in each department, increasing to three in PY3, for a total
of six districts in PY1-2 and nine districts in PY3-5. Over five years the
project would cover half of the districts in the three departments.
2.10      The selection criteria of the districts which have been  proposed
by the Government concerned  a number of  aspects which aret  geographical
(ease  of  access,  climate,  demographic  pressure);  administrative   and
technical (proximity to provincial capitals, coverage of technical staff);
human (participation of population in previous projects, experience of
technical  and  administrative  staff  in managing  SROs);  and   economic
diversity of development potential (irrigated crops, livestock, small-scale
rural industries). These criteria as a means of defining the core project
area are satisfactory and the project could be implemented in the following
districts:
Province               District
PYl-2               PY3-5
Niamey         Tillaberi           Tillaberi
Filingue            Filingue
Say
Dosso          Dogondoutchi        Dogondoutchi
Birni-N'Gaoure      Birni-N'Gaoure
Dosso
Tahoua         Madaoua             Madaoua
Bouza               Bouza
Birni-N'Konni
C. Detailed Features
Support to Field Technical Services
2.11      Proiect Preparation/Appraisal.  Provincial and district staff  of
technical ministries (MINAGIE and MRA/H, in particular), as well as the the
MP, would play an important role in the identification, preparation,
execution and evaluation of SR0s. They are poorly equipped with inadequate
means of transport and little operating funds and are often inexperienced
in performing these functions. The project would therefore provide a
4-wheel drive vehicle at each province and district as well as vehicle
operating costs. In order to strengthen field services, the project would
finance a development volunteer in each province, a total of three, (e.g.
rural works advisors, community development trainers, etc.) to assist the
SGAs who would be responsible for coordinating activities in their
provinces.   Vehicles  for  the  provinces   would  be  placed  under   the
responsibility of the SGAs of DDP and would be used jointly by development



- 17 -
volunteers, financial controllers and any provincial technical service
staff who would provide technical assistance to SROs. Likewise, vehicles
for the districts would be under the joint responsibility of the district
staff working as a team (agriculture, livestock, forestry and planning).
The project would also finance incremental office equipment. The terms and
conditions of the services to be rendered would be specified in framework
agreements  between  the  DDRM  unit   and  the  provincial  and   district
development councils concerned (para. 4.10).
2.12      Extension Services.   Technical  support would  be  provided  to
farmers through  extension services  after SROs  become operational.   Many
farmers  indeed   are  not   familiar with   irrigated  crops.    However,
agricultural extension agents at ucantons levels ('chef de district
agricolel--CDA) often have no means of transport nor operating funds and do
not visit farmers and yet are occupied with various administrative tasks
such as collecting agricultural statistics. At levels below that of the
CDA, no extension agents are in place except for externally financed
projects.
2.13      Small scale irrigation would provide an  opportunity to  upgrade
and revitalize extension services, given that technical improvements can be
achieved more easily and faster on irrigated perimeters than in rainfed
farming. This would serve as a starting point to gradually improve other
activities as well through better extension: erosion control, rainfed
crops, integration of agriculture and livestock, and better management of
land resources in general.
2.14      The project therefore would  improve the efficiency of  extension
services, in the areas where SROs would be developed. All the CDAs in
place and contractual extension agents (12 in PYl-2 and 18 in PY3-5 to be
financed by the project) would be provided with transport (motor cycles),
vehicle operating costs and training to improve their technical as well as
communication skills. Vacant CDA posts would be filled as much as possible
through internal transfer. They would be regularly supervised by district
and proviacial agricultural staff along the principles of the Training and
Visit system. Each contractual extension agent would ultimately provide
extension advice to about three villages.
Training
2.15      Staff Training.  A training program under DDRM's  responsibility,
executed by FAO and financed by Switzerland, has assisted in training
Nigerien staff on project analysis ("Formation en analyse de projets au
Sahel' -FORPROSA) since the end of 1984. The project is managed by a
resident expert from FAO.   At the request of  DDRM, this training  program
has concentrated since the end of 1986 on training sessions exclusively for
local staff in the six districts where the SRO project would be implemented
during the first two years. The program consists of two training modules,
the preparation of SROs and tCe other for their organization, monitoring
and evaluation. Staff at the district level (two each from Agriculture,
Forestry, Livestock and Planning) and some staff at the provincial level
(Planning and Rural Engineering) participated in the module for project



- 18 -
preparation. To make the training more practical, participating teams
prepared the ten SROs of the project's year zero work program, which would
be financed with advances from the PPF.
2.16      Although the  FORPROSA  program  has  helped  district  staff  in
developing multidisciplinary team work and the ten SROs have provided a
good basis for project appraisal, preparation suffered from a number of
shortcomingss
(a) SRO proposals often consist of a list of requests from villagers,
without an analysis of technical feasibility and options nor
consideration of the absorptive capacity of the villagers and the
administration;
(b) project documents lack information on proposed sites and their
environment due to the absence of base line data;
(c) analysis of agronomic aspects is usually insufficient; and
(d) coordination at district level remains unsatisfactory (e.g.,
district staff did not consult the MHE to assess the long-term
availability of water resources for irrigation).
2.17      In spite of these  shortcomings, it would  be essential that  the
FORPROSA  training  program  be  continued  considering  the  shortage   of
qualified staff and  the frequent  staff transfer.   However, the  FORPROSA
program has only modest human resources and cannot provide continuous
follow-up support to staff already trained. The project would complement
the FORPROSA program by financing short-term consultants to follow-up on
local staff who have received initial training and by providing regular
recycling sessions.
2.18      Extension Agents  Training.   Training  to improve  technical  as
well as communication skills would be provided to contractual extension
agents,  CDAs,   district   chiefs   of   agricultural   services   ("chefs
d'arrondissements de services agricoles") and provincial chiefs in charge
of  extension  services.   Training would  be  provided  through   service
contracts by locally available trainers from two agricultural and livestock
schools,   research    .taff    as    well    as    short-term    extension
consultants/specialists. An extension specialist for a newly created post
in the Bank's Resident Mission in Niamey would also assist.
2.19      Beneficiaries' Training.   Literacy and management training  for
beneficiaries would be indispensable to enable them to manage assets
created by the project, and would be provided through service contracts by
CLUSA (Cooperative League  of the USA).   The USAID-financed CLUSA  project
aims  to  train  trainers  for   cooperatives  and  to  train  members   of
cooperatives  and  GVs.   Former  UNCC   agents  were  trained  to   become
'cooperative technical  assistants'   and subsequently  trained  about  400
cooperative members in management and functional literacy. The project
would finance services rendered by the CLUSA project in functional literacy
and management training to beneficiary groups of the proposed project.



- 19 -
DDRM Unit
2.20      A unit would be set up in DDEM of the MP (the DDRM unit)  which
would include a Nigerien Project Coordinator, one local specialist in
project analysis and management, and one local accountant. The services of
an internationally recruited Financial Director would be financed during
project implementation.   The staff would be  based in  Niamey, but would
spend much of  their time  in the field.   The project  would also  finance
support staff in the DDRH unit (three drivers and one secretary), three
local accountants at provincial levels, and one bookkeeper at each district
(6 in  PYl-2 and  9 in  PY3-5).   DDRM and  DDP would  provide the  use  of
existing office space. The project would provide two four-wheel drive
vehicles, two station wagons and office equipment for the Niamey office. It
would also finance data processing services for monitoring and evaluation
of ongoing SROs at DDRM.
SRO Investment
2.21      The specific  locations of  the sub-projects  have not  yet  been
identified, except for ten SROs already prepared for the year zero work
program, since they will depend on the interest manifested by particular
farmer groups. The information about the extent to which SR0 will be
requested corresponding to the four models described below is, of course,
imperfect because their selection is based on ten SROs and on the existing
SR0 inventory, which are believed, however, to reflect reasonably well a
mix of these rodels.
2.22      Development of Bottomlands/Swamps  Forty five groups of producers
(60 farmers per site on average) would be assisted to develop irrigation
perimeters of around 15-20 ha each in bottomlands or swamps usually with
permanent surface water, drawing  on shallow  groundwater resources.   The
proposed type of development is much in demand by producers, is technically
simple, and a large number of suitable sites are available. Typically this
type of SR0 would involve two cement-lined open wells for each 1 ha area
with an average depth of lOm, of which 5m is under water; one storage and
two metal irrigation basins per each well; 70m of PVC underground pipes per
each well connecting three basins; installation of one 'delou", lifting
device with one ox per well; small agricultural tools; and agricultural
inputs such as seeds and fertilizers for the first yeaz only. In addition,
it would typically include live fences to protect irrigation perimeters,
plantation of windbreaks and village nurseries of plants for live fences
and windbreaks. The total construction cost per ha including skilled labor
and the cost of transportation of materials, but excluding village
nurseries, is estimated at CFAF 1.5 million (US$5,080), of which about 40?
is for the construction of the well. For illustration purposes, it is
assumed that each family would cultivate 0.25-0.33 ha of irrigated land.
Farmers would grow mostly sorghum and cowpeas with complementary irrigation
and rice, groundnuts and fodder during the wet season, and cassava, maize,
sweet potato, onions, and vegetables during the dry season. The choice of
crops would, however, be  left to the farmers.   The project would  finance
construction materials, inputs, skilled labor and transportation while
beneficiary  groups would  provide  all  the  unskilled  labor  for  well



- 20 -
construction, locally available materials such as sand and gravels, perform
all farming operations and bear all the operating costs from the second
year.
2.23      Construction and Eauioment  of Small-Scale Irrigation  Perimeters
Fifteen groups of producers (72 farmers on average) would be assisted to
construct  and  operate. small  irrigation   perimeters,  using   portable
motorpumps, averaging 18  ha each  near urban centers.   The typical  model
would consist of   one cement-lined open  well for 1.5  ha with an  average
depth of 10m, of which 5m is under water; installation of a 8 l/s capacity
motorpump for each 1.5 ha plot; construction of one storage and six
irrigation basins per well; 300m of PVC underground pipes connecting seven
basins; small agricultural tools for cultivation and distribution of water;
and agricultural inputs such as seeds and fertilizers for the first year
only.   Like  bottomland  development,   it would  include  live   fences,
windbreaks and village nurseries. The total construction cost per ha
including skilled labor and transportation of materials, but excluding
village nurseries, is estimated at around CFAF one million (US$3,390).
Producers would have the same responsibilities as for the bottomlands
operations. In addition, they would pay for the operation and maintenance
of their pumps  and save  for their replacement.   Sites for  this typa  of
operation would have to be chosen in relation to their easy access to
markets because  of the  relatively high  operating costs.   The choice  of
crops would be left to the farmers, but the farmers would be expected to
grow a greater proportion of high value crops such as vegetables to meet
their annual financial obligations.
2.24      Soil  Conservation  Operations    This  component  would  aim  to
rehabilitate sterile areas where no cultivation is currently possible as a
result of erosion. The 150 ha SRO model would consist of constructing rock
bunds which would allow more time for water infiltration and disrupt heavy
rainwater flow.   It would  also  consist of mechanized plowing  to  break
compacted soils between rock bunds so that conditions become adequate to
grow millet or sorghum. The project would provide the necessary design and
supervision services, and finance tractor rental costs for land preparation
and donkey carts to transport rocks. The beneficiaries would provide a
substantial amount of labor to transport and construct bunds (8-10 days/ha
and 1200-1500 days per site).   Investment costs per hectare are  estimated
at CFAF 1,000 (US$54) excluding labor. Fifteen operations are expected to
benefit around 100 families.
2.25      Village Nurseries   Hedges and  tree windbreaks would be  planted
to protect the agricultural areas and increase their productivity by
reducing evapotranspiration. The establishment of 20 nurseries would be
financed to meet the tree requirements of the above models and to cater for
other purposes such as tree plantation for dune stabilization and village
forestry. The experience of NGOs suggests that these nurseries can be
managed by  villagers who  have previously  been adequately  trained.   The
model nursery would cover 2500 m2 which would be equipped with a
cement-lined well and udeloum. The cost per nursery is estimated at CFAF
1.2 million (US$4,070). It would have a capacity of 50,000 plants annually
which would be sufficient for live fences and windbreaks for about 3



- 21 -
irrigation models (15-20 ha) and it would therefore be capable of supplying
other villages. The capacity of the nurseries and the selection of trees
would have to be adjusted to meet the requirements of the village concerned
and demands for plants from other villages.
Unidentified Activities
2.26      The models described  in the previous  paragraphs, such as  small
scale irrigations and soil conservation projects, are considered priority
actions, aiming to increase production and income on the one hand, and to
protect the environment on the other. SROs would, however, be an integral
part of village development programs and once these priority actions have
been taken, other accompanying activities including livestock activities,
input banks, and storage as well as other productive projects, such as
aquaculture and apiculture, may emerge during project implementation.   The
proposed project would therefore provide a large allocation of funds (about
252 of total cost of sub-projects) to finance SROs which do not fall within
the category of models already identified and appraised, following the
procedures specified for the SRO project cycle (paras 4.19-4.22).
Studies
2.27      The project would finance a number of studies to provide  better
knowledge of physical environment and socio-economic conditions, such as
complementary  hydrogeological  studies,  monographs  of  selected   areas,
studies on land tenure, etc. These studies would be subcontracted to local
or international consultants, the University of Niamey (e.g., monographs),
the Rural Code Commission (land tenure) and NGOs. In addition, a major
organizational study with the objective of harmonizing the financing
procedures of SROs would be undertaken with the Swiss bilateral funds.
D. Environmental Impact
2.28      The project, through the financing  of erosion control works  and
tree plantation, would have  a beneficial effect  on the environment.   The
project would help beneficiaries build simple works to minimize erosion
caused by violent run-offs. It would also finance tree plantations for
sand fixation and wir,dbreaks, often as part of bottomland and small-scale
irrigation development.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Total projeot costs, including contingencies as well as taxes and
import duties,  which  are negligible,  for  the five  year  implementation
period (1989-1993), are estimated at CFAF 5.2 billion (or US$17.7 million
equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of 442. On the basis of the
standard disbursement profile for agricultural credit projects in all
regions, it is projected that it would take 7 1/2 years to disburse the
proceeds of the credit. Through the increase in price contingencies, this



- 22 -
would increase total project costs to CFAF 5.3 billion (or US$18.0
million). Project costs are summarized below.
PROJECT COST SU MARY
Local    Forolgn    Total    Local   Foretgn   Total   X Foreign    X Tot&l
CFAF millton               CFAF million        exchange    base cost
Support to technical services 716    402    1,120      2.4       1.4    3.0           se        26
Training                   289       le      846      0.8       0.4     1.2          81         8
DORM Unit                  228       838      682      0.6       1.1    1.9           80        18
SRO Investment             969       907    1,658      8.2       8.1     6.8          49        42
Studios
(lnluding PPF refunding)  177       888      580      9.6      1.8    1.9           s8         12
Total baseline costa     2,819      2,184   4,458      7.6       7.8   16.1           46      1s
physical contingencies    97        98      t9o      9.8       0.8     0.6          49         4
price contingencies      So8        82      679      2.0       0.8     2.8          14        15
Total projcct costs      8,094      2,8e9    5,318    10.1      7.9    10.0           44       119
3.02      Unit costs are  based on  May 1987 prices,  adjusted to  November
1987 -- the date  of negotiations --  using an adjustment  factor of 4?  on
local and 0.72 on foreign costs. Costs include physical contingencies of
IOZ on subprojects and office equipment and furniture. The total allowance
for  physical  contingencies   amounts  to   42  of   base  costs.    Price
contingencies, which amount to 152 of base costs or 13? of total costs,
have been calculated at the following annual percentage rates:
Assumed price contingencies (in 2)
costs                 1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
foreign costs         1.0    1.0      1.0      3.5       3.5    3.5
local costs           6.0    6.0      6.0      6.0       6.0    6.0
The price escalation factors follow forecasts of international inflation
for foreign supplied goods and services, and estimated annual inflation in
Niger for local costs. Total contingencies amount to approximately 19? of
base costs and 16? of total project costs. Cost estimates are detailed in
Annexes 3-1 and 3-2 and in the working paper, B.6.
3.03       Indicative Proaramming.  It is assumed  that, for the purpose  of
determining project costs, the pace of preparation and financing of SROs
would be as follows:



- 23 -
number of districts    6   6   9    9    9
number of ROs          2   2   2    3    3
per district
total number of BROs  12  12  18   27   27   (96 in total)
B. Proiosed Pinancina Plan
3.04      In view  of the  Government's tight  financial situation,  it  is
proposed that its contributiot be limrited to the salaries of incremental
civil servants,  the  provision  of  office space  and utilities.   It  is
estimated at US$0.9 million and would constitute about 52 of the total
costs.
3.05      The Government of the Swiss Confederation would contribute SF12.5
million, or US$7.8 million, as a grant. IDA would finance the remaining
US$9.3 million.  The financing plan is thus as follows:
Financint Plan
US$ million         (a)
Government                        0.9               5
IDA                               9.3              52
Switzerland                       7.8              43
TOTAL                            18.0             100
IDA and Switzerland would jointly  finance. (502 each) all the  disbursement
categories with the exception of category (8), the refunding of IDA's PPF.
C. Procurement
3.06      Given  the  limited number  of  SROs,  their  small  size,  wide
geographic distribution and phasing over time, foreign firms are less
likely to bid for contracts. However, orders for vehicles and equipment
would be grouped whenever possible at the central or provincial levels.
Any such grouped purchase order with a value in excess of US$100,000 (CFAF
30 million) would be let after international competitive bidding following
IDA guidelines. For orders valued between US$100,000 and US$20,000 (CFAF 6
million), competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures which
were reviewed  and  found acceptable  by  IDA, would  be  employed.  Local
competitive shopping would be used for those valued under US$20,000 (CFAF 6
million).



- 24 -
NIGER
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
PROCUREMENT METHOD a/
PROJECT ELEMENT                    ICB        LCB        OTHER         N.A.         TOTAL
COST
(US$ MILLION)
Civil works and supplies           -        4.4            _            -           4.4
(2.2)                                  (2.2)
Vehicles                          1.0        -             -            -           1.0
(0.5)                                            (0.5)
Equipment & furniture              -        0.3            -            -           0.3
(0.15)                                 (0.15)
Agricultural inputs                         0 0.9        0.3            -           1.2
(0.45)      (0.15)                     (0.6)
Consultants' services              -                     2.5            -           2.5
studies and audits                                     (1.25)                     (1.25)
Local personnel, training,         -         -           2.8 bI         2.1 El      4.9
operating costs                                        (1.4)          (0.6)       (2.0)
Goods and services for             -         -             -            2.2        2.2
unidentified SROs                                                      (1.1)       (1.1)
Refunding of Project               -         -             -            1.5        1.5
Preparation Advance                                                   (1.5)       (1.5)
Total                             1.0       5.6          5.6            5.8       18.0
(0.5)     (2.8)        (2.8)          (3.2)      (9.3)
aI Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
b/ Fuel to be purchased in bulk without taxes, and training.
cl Personnel and non-fuel operating costs.
3.07      Until recently, all contracts of over CFAF one million (US$3,390)
had to be approved by Primary Commissions at the level of technical
ministries and then by the Central Procurement Commission (CCM). Moreover,
provinces and districts could not procure without the authorization of the
central ministries. Under the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program,
the Government agreed and has changed the procurement rules to (a) increase
the threshold below which contracts are not required, from CFAP one million



- 25 -
to CFAF five million; (b) create provincial procurement commissions; and
(c) authorize provincial procurement commissions to launch, review and
approve procurement valued below CFAF 15 million. Procurement valued at
more than  CPAF 15 million has  to  be approved  b' CCH.   These  measures
already taken are in line with the decentrali ed decision-making and
financial  management  of  the   proposed  project    Agricultural   inputs
totalling US$0.9 million would be procured by LCB since such inputs would
be provided in small quantities to widely dispersed SRO sites, and only
during the initial  year of  each SRO.   Animals valued  at US$0.3  million
would be provided by the villages concerned or purchased at local markets.
LCB procedures have been adopted for procurement of construction materials
because the  scope  for  grouping  is  limited,  given  the  scattered  and
dispersed nature of the individual operations and small volumes to be
procured and in  any one year  about US$0.9 million would be spent,  which
includes the cost of skilled labor and transport as well as the cost of
construction supplies and materials.   In order to  speed up execution  and
make  district  staff more  responsible,  procurement  of  goods  for  SRO
investment such as cement, iron rods and pumps would be carried out at  the
district level  as far  as suppliers  of such  goods are  available in  the
districts.   District   staff would   receive  technical   assistance   in
procurement practices from provincial staff and the DDRH unit.
3.08      Expatriate staff (including volunteers) and short-term consultant
costs amount to about US$1.4 million, including contingencies.   Assurances
were obtained  at negotiations  that  consultants with  qualifications  and
experience acceptable to IDA would be recruited following IDA guidelines.
A Financial Director and financial controllers in the provinces would be
recruited through a package contract with an accounting firm preferably
represented in Niger and associated with a Nigerien firm.
3.09      Contract Review.  Bidding  documents for  contracts estimated  to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be cleared with IDA before
tendering, and recommendations for contract awards would be submitted to
IDA for comments prior to award. This would cover about 6? of the total
estimated value of contracts for goods.
D. Disbursement
3.10       DA credit would be disbursed over 7 1/2 years in accordance with
the standard disbursement profile for agricultural credit in all the
Regions and against the following categories:



- 26 X
US$     SDR   2 of total
exDenditures a/
(1)  Civil works and supplies             1.8       1.37       1002
(2)  Vehicles, equipment and furuiture    0.6       0.46       1oo0
(3)  Agricultural inputs                  0.45      0.35       1002
(4)  Consultants' services, studies       1.15      0.88       1002
and audits
(5)  Operating costs                      1.05      0.80       1002
(6)  Training                             0.4       0.31       1002
(7)  Goods and services for               0.85      0.65       1002
unidentified SROs
(8) Refunding of project
preparation advance                  1.5       1.14       1002
(,' Unallocated                           1.5      1.14
TOTAL                                9.3       7.1
aI Percentage of total expenditures for IDA financing. The total
expenditures to be financed by external sources would be US$17.1
million. IDA and Switzerland would finance 502 each of the total
expenditures of categories (1) to (7).
Category (1) includes construction materials and supplies for wells,
irrigation basins, soil conservation works, and tree nurseries.   Category
(3) for agricultural inputs includes fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural
tools and animals. Category (5) for operating costs includes the salaries
of contractual local staff and vehicle operating costs. Category (6) for
training  includes  service  contracts   with  training  institutions   and
subsistence payments to training participants.
3.11      Disbursements  for   categories   (1)  through   (6),   for   all
expenditures  valued  at  less  than US$20,000,  would  be  made   against
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) certified by the Project Coordinator and
the Financial Director.   The minimum amount  for reimbursement for  direct
payments would be set at US$20,000. Accounting procedures for the project
will be set up with PPF funding and would be designed to provide
justification for SOEs for the project. The documentation of expenditures
would be retained by the project and made available for inspection by IDA
during project supervision.   The MP would  issue withdrawal  applications.
An estimated disbursement schedule for the project is shown in Annex 3-3.
The closing date of the IDA credit would be June 30, 1996.



- 27 -
3.12      In order to expedite disbursements and ensure that funds for  the
project are available when needed, the Government would open two special
accounts (revolving fund); one for IDA and the other for Switzerland in a
commercial bank in the name of the project. Immediately after credit
effectiveness, IDA and Switzerland would make an initial deposit of CPA?
220 million each (US$0.7 mAllion equivalent) into respective special
accounts. A total of CFAF 440 million would represent about four months'
expenditure. The account would be used to finance the local and foreign
costs of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. The special account would
be replenished on a monthly basis or when it is reduced by a third,
whichever comes first.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Proiecc Execution
4.01      The project would be  executed by the DDRM  unit, which would  be
established in the DDRM of the MP, with assistance from Government
technical services, groups of  producers and possibly NGOs.   Proliferation
of management units by various donors in the DDRM, however, is not an ideal
situation (Annex 4-1).   An organizational study would be undertaken with
the Swiss bilateral funds to analyze the existing organizational structure
of DDRM, procedures of financing SROs by different donors and possible
options for harmonization of procedures, including an autonomous structure
of a Rural Development Fund.   The organizational structure of the  project
would be amended if necessary once the study is completed and a decision is
taken by the Government in consultation with IDA.
Central Organization
4.02      The DDRM unit  would retain ultimate  responsibility for  project
execution, although decision-making would be decentralized in most cases to
the Provinces.    The  technical  committee was  created  by  larrdte* no.
01/MPlDDRM of July 10, 1935 with representatives of nine ministries.   Its
roles are to approve overall annual programs of SROs proposed by each
province, carry out financial arbitration if necessary, taking into account
the regional balances and overall availability of funds, and ensure the
coordination of technical assistance required for the preparation and
execution of SROs through their provincial and district services.
4.03      The "Comit4  Interministeriel  de  planification et  de mise  en
oeuvre des micrordalisations', created by "arrAte* no. 27 of September 28,
1984,   would   be   responsible    for   defining   policies   for    SROs
('microrealisations"). The technical committee would raise any questions
pertaining to policy implication to the 'Comit4 Interminist4riel'.
Responsibilities of the DDRM Unit
4.04      The unit would  be responsible for  (a) diffusing information  on
project selection criteria and procedures to be followed through to
appraisal; (b) assisting technical services and villagers in subproject



- 28 -
preparation  by  issuing   guidelines;  (c)   participating  in   appraisal
coordinated by DDP; (d) coordinating training activities; (e) monitoring
progress of SROs under preparation as well as under implementation and
undertaking  periodic  evaluation  of   ongoing  operations;  (f)   overall
financial control   and  accounting;  and  (g)  preparing  annual  progress
reports which would include the consolidated project accounts and statement
of the status of each Capital Replacement Account.
Responsibilities of Develogment Councils
4.05      Development councils at village, district, and provincial  levels
would be a major decision-making structure. Proposals would be submitted
to the development councils from the lower to higher echelons for approval.
At each level, the presidents of the respective development councils would
be assisted by the technical services to prepare SROs. The Government
would take all necessary measures to grant authority to CRDs presided over
by provincial Governors to approve their respective provincial program of
SROs. Once an SRO is approved, provincial and/or district technical
services with the possible assistance of NGOs would be designated by the
provincial Governor to help the village implement the SRO. In addition,
district Governors would be responsible for monitoring regular payments by
beneficiaries to the Capital Replacement Accc nts and  bring attention   in
case of non-compliance for notifying the provincial Governors and the DDRM
unit, in order that they take the necessary action.
Responsibilities of Administrative and Technical Services
4.06      The Provincial Director of the MP  in his capacity as SGA to  the
CRDs would be responsible for coordinating and supporting SRO programs in
his  province.   His  specific   responsibilities  are  tos   (a)   diffuse
information about the project; (b) make sure that selection criteria and
terms and conditions of the beneficiaries' participation are met; and   (c)
make sure that provincial technical services provide adequate technical
assistance to the preparation/appraisal/execution of SROs.
4.07      Various  technical   services  would   be  called   on  to   help
beneficiaries prepare SRO proposals at the request of development councils.
District Governors would designate responsible technical services as
coordinators of SRO programs in their districts. The designated technical
service  wotuld  have  technical   responsibility  for  the  execution   and
supervision of works and would report quarterly to the Project Coordinator
on progress.
Participation of NGOs
4.08      Given their long experience in SRO-type operations and widespread
presence in the field, the NGOs' competence would be tapped as much as
possible for the execution of the project.   Although it is up to the  DDRH
unit and the CRDs and CSRDs to decide what types of participation are
needed from NGOs, they could include technical advice to district staff,
execution of SROs, training and execution of specific studies.



- 29 -
Responsibilities of Beneficiaries
4.09      The beneficiary groups  would have to  provide all the  unskilled
labor  required  during  construction  and  locally  available   materials;
collect the cash to be deposited prior to the initial installation of
medium-term assets, if any, and subsequently collect the annuity to be
paid; allocate land; devise and make operative rules for access to common
goods and services; and collect the cash andlor provide the labor for
operation and maintenance of shared facilities. Each group would maintain
simple accounts for common expenditures and receipts, and the technical
services/NGOs  would  assist  them   as  requested,  using  guidelines   on
accounting procedures to be prepared by DDRM with PPF financing.
Contracts for SRO Execution
4.10      SROs would  be executed  according to  the terms  and  conditions
specified in the contracts.   Two types of contracts  are envisaged; (1)  a
framework agreement between the DDRM unit, and CRD and CSRD; and (2) a
development  contract  between  the  CSRD  and  the  group  of   producers,
representing the beneficiaries. The framework agreement would cover an
overall annual program for each province, and, based on the national policy
concerning  rules  and  conditions   for  eligibility,  would  define   the
respective roles of the project, provinces and districts in technical
assistance, logistical support,  supervision and training.   It would  also
mention the  frequency and  type of  reporting required.   The  development
contract for each SRO, written in the local language, would define
responsibilities between the local authorities (CSRD) and beneficiaries
(group of producers). In particular, it would indicate the physical and
financial contributions of beneficiaries, project contribution, management
mechanism, operating Lechanism of the Capital Replacement Account, etc.
The Government is requested, as a condition of disbursement for civil works
and supplies, and agricultural inputs (categories (1) and (3)), to present
drafts of the framework agreement and the development contract satisfactory
to IDA.
B. Financial Management. Accounts, Audits and Reporting
4.11      Project accounting would fall under the overall responsibility of
the Project Coordinator. For expenditures other than direct investment of
SROs (vehicles, vehicle operating costs, salaries, training and studies),
the Financial Director, together with a local accountant in the DDRM unit
in Niamey, would be directly responsible for purchase, payment and
bookkeeping. For expenditures related to the direct investment of SROs,
whose financial management would be decentralized to the district and
provincial levels, the Financial Director would regularly supervise,
ensuring that proper accounts are kept of each operation by a bookkeeper in
each district with assistance from financial controllers in the provinces,
and ensure that adequate justification for expenditures is submitted
regularly from the districts  through the provinces to  the DDRM unit.   He
would prepare SOEs and disbursement requests and consolidate annual
accounts.



- 30 -
4.12      In line with  the decentralization  of decision-making  regarding
SRO investments, financial management for expenditures directly related to
SRO investment would also be decentralized to the district levels, the
closest level to the center of actions, i.e. villages. Secondary accounts
would be opened in the name of the SRO program at each district, either at
branches of the BDRN or post offices (six accounts during the first two
years and then nine accounts), and an advance would be issued for amounts
equivalent to about three months' expenditures of district SRO programs
from the central special account. An initial deposit to each secondary
account is  estimated  at around  US$65,000.   A district  Governor  and  a
coordinator of the district SRO  program would cosign checks.   Bookkeepers
at each district financed by the project would keep receipts and invoices
and send them to the DDRM unit through provincial financial controllers
every month. Provincial financial controllers also financed by the project
would regularly visit districts to ensure that funds allocated are used in
conformity with their purposes and budget. Based on receipts and invoices
on the one hand and provincial financial controllers' ex-post evaluation on
the other, the DDRM unit would replenish district accounts.
4.13      The accounting system of  the project would  be established by  a
consultant with PPF financing. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the project establish and maintain separate project-related accounts
in accordance with sound and accepted accounting principles and practices.
It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the project accounting
system and procedures satisfactory to IDA would be established and that the
Financial  Director  would  be  recruited.   Assurances  were  obtained  at
negotiations  that  three  financial  controllers  in  the  provinces   and
bookkeepers at each district would be recruited no later than October 1,
1988.
4.14      The project-related  accounts would  be audited  annually  during
project implementation by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
financed by the Project. Audited financial statements and reports, of such
scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's
report would include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system
and internal controls, and whether or not IDA funds have been used for
their intended purposes. The report would also confirm that SOEs submitted
as justification for disbursement under categories (1) through (6) of para
3.10 correctly reflect detailed records kept by the Project. Assurances on
the above were obtained at negotiations.
4.15      The Project Coordinator would  be responsible for issuing  annual
progress reports and submitting them to IDA, including budgeted and actual
expenditures, the progress achieved in the preparation and execution of
SROs, and the status of each Capital Replacement Account. He would also
submit to IDA in draft, for information, annual work programs and budgets
prepared by the provinces (para. 4.21). Within one year of the credit
closing date, the Project coordinator would be responsible for preparing a
project completion report which would summarize the project's performance
and evaluate lessons learned.   Assurances on all  the above were  obtained
during negotiations.



_ 31 -
C. Capital Replacement Accounts
4.16      One of the features of the project would be a replication of  the
generally successful precedent in Senegal, that medium-term assets would be
provided to groups of producers on condition that the producers contribute
to the Capital Replacement Accounts at levels which would permit the
replacement of the assets instead of through medium term credit. The total
value of such assets (mainly pumps and animals for "delou') for the model
SROs at current prices would be  about CFAF 150 million (US$480,000).   The
use of Capital Replacement Accounts would avoid delays while awaiting the
reorganization of the agricultural credit system. This would avoid the use
of commercial banks, which are reluctant to lend for rural equipment due to
the lack of adequate loan security and guarantees, and disappointing
collection performance cf medium-term credit. It would also contribute to
small groups of producers becoming credit-worthy in the judgment of the
local  banking  system.   Closely   supervised  replenishment  of   Capital
Replacement Accounts would also ensure that the original medium-term
equipment could be replaced. The DDRM unit would retain ownership of the
assets which would be lent to producers while they build up enough savings
to be able to purchase the replacement assets if they are needed.
4.17      For each medium-term asset  provided, the  producer group would
open a Capital Replacement Account at the nearest branch of BDRN or post
office; the withdrawal from such accounts would be made by the group with
the agreement of the district Governor.  As a condition for receipt of  the
asset, the group would pay an amount  of 5s  of its delivered cost into  its
Capital Replacement Account;  this would be verified by the DDRM unit.  The
asset would remain the property  of the DDRM unit  until the group has  put
sufficient funds into the  account for its replacement.   By that time  the
group would own the asset in full property. The development contract
between the CSRD and the producer group would specify the amount of the
annual payment and the date of payment. Assurances on the above were
obtained at negotiations.  As an example, for a pump with a three-year life
span, the procedure would be as followss   an initial payment of 52 of  the
delivered cost and an annual payment of one half of the estimated
replacement cost would be made, except that for the first year the 5s down
payment would be deducted. An illustrative farm model shows that producers
would be able to meet this schedule of payments. In the case of animals,
resale proceeds would normally buy new animals after three to four years of
use. Funds accumulated in the accounts would therefore be used for
repurchase in case of mortality or for other purchases decided among the
group, in agreement with district authorities.
4.18      The DDRM unit would examine at  least twice a year the status  of
each Capital Replacement Account and in the case of delinquency, issue the
necessary instructions for all appropriate measures to be taken to ensure
that all arrears are paid promptly. Assurances on this were obtained at
negotiations.



- 32 -
D. The Small Rural Onerations Proiect Cycle
4.19      Identification/preparation.       SROs  would  be  identified   by
beneficiaries, technical services, particularly extension agents or NGOs,
in response to local needs for investment and the diffusion of information
on eligibility for funds. Identification documents would be prepared by
potential beneficiaries with the help of district staff and would be
submitted to CRD through CSRD to prepare annual provincial programs (para.
4.21). Preparation would be undertaken by beneficiaries with the help of
local technical services at district levels or NGOs. The DDRM unit would
facilitate the preparation process by providing detailed guidelines on
techniques and costs, holding training sessions, and undertaking frequent
field trips to review ongoing preparation. The development councils would
enlist technical services as necessary to help beneficiaries prepare SROs.
4.20      Appraisal.     Appraisal of  the request would  be undertaken  at
two levels, namely by COTEAR and then COTEDEP coordinated by DDP with the
participation of the DDRM unit. Appraisal would involve visits to the sites
of proposed SROs, discussions with potential beneficiaries, in particular
to clarify their financial commitments, and reviewing technical and
financial viability as well as ensuring satisfaction of selection criteria.
SGAs are ultimately responsible for ensuring that selection criteria are
met. For financial analysis, appraisal would make sure that farm budgets
indicate that an SRO would generate enough cash flow to cover all the
operating costs and to sufficiently remunerate labor. If costs per ha are
30X higher than those presented in para. 6.04, the DDRM unit would
reappraise financial viability.
4.21      Apprcval.     There would be two levels of approval; approval  of
overall annual  provincial  programs  and approval  of  each  SRO.   Annual
provincial programs would be prepared, based on identification documents
and submitted to the DDRM and the technical committee by June 30 each year.
The technical committee would approve provincial programs as a whole,
taking into account the distribution among the provinces and the funds
available. Assurances were made during negotiations that the Government
would submit to IDA for information the annual provincial programs of SROs
not later than August 31 of each year. If the annual provincial programs
include SROs which are other than the models identified, DDRH would submit
a representative model to the technical committee which invites local
representatives of IDA and the Swiss Development Cooperation to determine
whether the new model meets the selection criteria. IDA's approval of such
a new model would be a condition of disbursement for goods and services for
unidentified SROs  (category (7)).   Once overall  provincial programs  are
approved, the district and provincial technical staff would proceed with
further preparation and appraisal  of each SRO.   Once the final  appraisal
has  shown  that  the  request  is   justified,  it would  be  sent   with
modifications, if any, to the CRD for approval.  The CRD thus has the power
of final approval for each SRO in the province.
4.22      Execution and Monitoring.      After an SRO is approved,  district
technical services would be designated by the district Governor to help the
village implement the SRO with possible assistance from provincial services



- 33 -
and NGOs. A development contract between the CSRD and the beneficiaries
would be signed, specifying the technical and financial conditions of
execution (para. 4.10). Coordination, monitoring and control would be the
joint responsibility of DDP and the DDRM unit.
E. Training
4.23      Given the  existence  of  reasonably  successfully  run  training
programs  for  regional  planning  and  project  analysis  (FORPROSA)   and
cooperatives (CLUSA), and of underutilized agricultural and livestock
schools and their trainers, the project would mobilize as much as possible
locally available human resources through service contracts in order to
provide training  and  recycling.   The project  would  finance  short-term
services of training specialists to assess training needs and set up
training programs.   The  project  coordinator would  be  responsible  for
coordinating training activities.
F. Project Coordination and Imlementation
4.24      It is important to harmonize principal rules and procedures to be
applied to SRO-type operations financed by all donors including the
Government,  otherwise  different  rules   and  procedures  would   confuse
beneficiaries and technical service staff and would make implementation
ineffective.   The  organizational  study  to  be  financed  by  the  Swiss
bilateral funds would improve coordination by examining and proposing ways
to harmonize rules and procedures imposed by various donors. In addition
to the study, the Government would convene regular meetings, at least once
a year, with local representatives of the donors involved in SRO-type
operations, to discuss their investment programs, rules and procedures,
evaluation of past activities, etc., with a view to better coordination and
programming. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.
4.25      Prior to effectiveness,  the PPF  advance would  finance (a)  the
execution of the year zero program of SROs already prepared by district
staff; (b) the preparation activities of the first year program to be
financed right after project start-up; (c) the consultant services to set
up an accounting system fir the project; and (d) the consultant services to
set up a monitoring and evaluation system at DDRM. Presentation to IDA of
the first year program of SROs to be financed after project start-up would
be condition  of effectiveness.   In addition,  the Swiss  bilateral  funds
would finance the  organizational study.   Its terms of  reference and  the
consultant were agreed by IDA and initial work started in December 1987.
Upon completion of the organizational study, the Government and IDA would
review the recommendations of the study and not later than December 31,
1990, the Government would carry out those recommendations approved by IDA.
Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations. In addition, the
Government would conduct a mid-term review not later than December 31,
1990, and present the findings and recommendations of the review, including
the suitability of rules and procedures and their effective application,
quality of prepar.tion/appraisal/eva.uation of SROs, adequacy of training,
and impact of extension services, to IDA for review and comments.



- 34 -
V. TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
5.01      Investment.  The technical specifications for the model SROs  are
given in Working Papers B-1 and B-2 as technical guides. These guides are
prepared to facilitate the selection of technical solutions, technical
preparation of  SRO proposals,  and estimation  of costs.   The design  and
construction methods are simple so that beneficiaries would be able to
operate and maintain them. It is recommended that a pump be used to lift
up water while digging so that the well-diggers can dig sufficiently deep
(5m below water table), rather than using divers who would dig 2-3m below
the water table, which is often not deep enough to provide water during the
last period of the dry season. In accordance with Government policy,
costly metal fences to protect irrigation perimeters would be discouraged.
Beneficiaries would have to keep animals away from irrigation perimeters
until the live fences grow. A Od4loul with an ox or pumps would be used as
a means of lifting water, rather than manual lifting, which although widely
practiced at the moment, is insufficient to meet water requirements.
5.02      Inputs.  The production  specifications for  irrigated crops  are
based on  acquired experience  with  similar small-scale  projects  already
under implementation  in  or  close  to  the  areas.   There  would  be  no
innovations in respect to input types, quantity, and production methods
unless technical service agencies present new evidence that changes were
warranted. The input requirements for each crop are presented in Annex
6-1. These inputs, as well as pesticides, would be financed by the project
for the first year due to the lack of formal agricultural credit, but
thereafter would be financed by the beneficiaries out of their revenues.
Inputs for the first year would be purchased in provinces or districts and
transferred to the beneficiaries, and subsequently would be purchased
directly   by    the    beneficiaries,   either    from    the    "Centrale
d'approvisionnement" or from private traders.
5.03      Production Methods.  Water would be lifted either by a Id6loul to
irrigate a small plot of 0.5 ha each or by a pump to irrigate a plot of 1.5
ha each. In both cases, water would be stored in a storage basin and be
then distributed to irrigation basins through underground PVC pipes. From
irrigation basins, farmers would transport water in watering pots to
irrigate. Although manual distribution of water is labor intensive, water
loss is much lt.as as compared with earth canals for gravity distribution
and labor for water distribution would be made available by savings from
water lifting by delou and pumps. Since these activities would be
undertaken during dry seasons, the adequacy of labor would not be a
problem. Labor requirements for crop cultivation and irrigation are
presented in Annex 6-1.
5.04      Yields  and  Output   Yield  forecasts  are  based  on   acquired
experience with similar small-scale operations. Incremental output under
the project would come from an extension of the cultivated irrigated area
and an increase in yields. Production of firewood would also increase as a
result of project actions. Yields, areas and production are presented in
Annex 6-1 and anticipated incremental outputs of the major crops at PYS are
shown below.



- 35 -
ExRected Production of Maior Crops
Bottomland Model (15 ha)       Pump Irrigation Model (18 ha)
crops          incremental production         incremental production
per perimeter (tons)           per perimeter (tons)
onions              36                             57
cassava             60                             -6
sweet potatoes      29                            -22
vegetables          27                             78
fodder              24                             17
sugar cane          15
sorghum             13                             23
potatoes            --                             41
5.05      Improvement in Rainfed  Farminz.  Although  SROs may  not make  a
direct investment in rainfed farming, SRO investments in irrigated areas
would improve productivity in rainfed areas. With an increased production
from irrigated areas, farmers could afford to leave a part of their rainfed
areas as fallow, and longer fallow periods would contribute to better
productivity. Moreover, increased fodder production from fodder crops and
by-products of cereals and cowpeas would facilitate an integration of
livestock and agriculture. Finally, extension agents who would be trained
and become more effective would give advice not only on irrigated crops but
also on rainfed farming as an integral part of farming.
VI. FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Demand. Marketing and Prices
6.01      Demand.  For  the  model  operations,  outputs  would  be  either
additional supplies to the domestic market (vegetables, cereals) or exports
mainly to Nigeria (onions, cowpeas). Output volumes would be small both in
aggregate and per perimeter or group of producers. Most of the perishable
vegetables are likely to be consumed by the producers themselves, or be
sold in small towns close to the project sites that are presently poorly
supplied. However, too much concentration on the perishable vegetables
would quickly saturate small local markets and a balance between high value
but perishable crops and low value cereals which can be stored has to be
sought.   Although  farmers  are  free  to  choose  which  crops  to  grow,
agricultural services would give advice on crop composition based on
marketing and price information, as well as upon technical considerations.
6.02      Marketing.  Producers would continue to sell directly to  private
buyers as at present, and therefore the project would not attempt to
provide any direct  marketing support.   Onions and  peppers would  usually
find ready export markets in Nigeria and the Ivory Coast. Tomatoes would
be sold in nearby local markets or are often dried on the farm for sale to
the Agadez and desert areas. Cassava, sweet potatoes and sugar canes would
be sold in nearby local markets.



- 36 -
6.03      Foodcrop markets in Niger are free from effective regulations and
prices are competitively determined. All crops originating in the project
area are traded within the country, and the quantities that are exported
are freely  traded.   Therefore, in  subsequent  economic analysis  of  the
project, observed market prices are assumed to be economic prices for
regionally and locally traded crops. For rice, sorghum and maize, which
are internationally traded, import parity prices are used as economic as
well as financial prices. The assumed prices of the irrigated commodities
at farm-gate, taking into account transport costs and losses, are set out
belows
Estimated Farm-Gate Prices of Haior Crops
(CFAF/kg)
Commodity                      Financial and Economic Prices
(1987)
onions                                   62
cassava                                  52
sweet potatoes                           63
vegetables                               50
fodder                                   10
sugar cane                               25
sorghum                                  52
potatoes                                 64
maize                                    51
paddy                                    70
B.  Financial Imolications for Beneficiaries
6.04      Two farm models representing  the characteristics  of the  model
SROs have been constructed to illustrate the anticipated impact of the
project on individual participants. The modals are detailed in Annex 6-1
and summarized in the table below, with other financial features of the
project.



37 -
Financial Features
bottomland     puMp
development    irrigation
specific operations      no.            45              15
families per operation   no.             60             72
cost per operation       CFAF            23 million     18 million
US$            78,000         61,000
cost per ha              CFAF            1.5 million    1 million
US$            5,080          3,390
cost per family          CFAP            375,000        250,000
US$            1,270          850
net revenue per producer per year
without project         CFAF 000/year   67             123
with project            ClAF 000/year  211             163
net revenue per man-day
without project         CFAF            250            268
with project            CFAF            568            473
C. Financial Imnlications for Government
6.05      Thereo would be  no directly generated  revenue to the  Government
since none of the project outputs are comodities on which taxes are levied
with the exception of onions (CFAF 1,100/bag). Beneficiary incomes would,
however, increase by about 1001, thereby raising incomes and expenditures
on consumer goods subject to indirect taxation. Incremental Government
revenue can therefore be expected to be significant. This effect cannot be
quautified with much accuracy and therefore is not included in the
Government cash flow in Annex 6-2.
VII. BENEFITS AND ECONONIC ANALYSIS
A. Proiect Benefits
7.01      The most  important  benefit  of   the  project would  be   the
development of an institutional capability in Niger for making sound
investment. decisions for small rural operations and for managing investment
funds. By providing intensive training for local staff and streamlining
the organizational structure of the project cycle, a local capacity of
project preparation and execution of SROs would improve. By focussing on
the principle that beneficiaries manifest, both In cash and in kind, their
interest in participation and by instituting Capital Replacement Accounts



- 38 -
for renewal of medium-term assets, the sustainability of operations would
be enhanced. By clarifying the selection criteria and terms and conditions
of financing, utilization of funds would be rationalized and the total flow
of external assistance for this type of operation would increase.
7.02      The subprojects, the models of which have been identified  in the
course of preparation and appraisal, would also have substantial benefits.
The project would benefit in total about 7,000 families, or 50,000 people.
It does not follow that project beneficiaries would be among the poorest of
the poor, since those who choose to take advantage of the investment
opportunities are likel1 to be among the more enterprising and innovative
beneficiaries. The recipients of project funds are likely to be either
groups of similarly enterprising individuals or people organized and
motivated by a few, or even only one, entrepreneurial type. In the latter
case, the leader(s) would plausibly take a disproportionate share of
revenues  accruing  and/or  pay  an   unduly  low  share  of  the   group's
obligations. Such rewards may nonetheless be a necessary incentive for the
emergence of local leadership.
B. Economic Analysis
7.03      No attempt has  been made  to measure the  main project  benefits
stated in para 7.01. Economic rates of return have been calculated for two
prototype models. Direct investment costs based on standard specifications
have been  compared with  incremental output  from a  typical site.   Basic
assumptions are: (a) 10-20 year economic life depending on the type of
development and no residual values; and (b) villagers' voluntary labor for
construction,  cultivation  and  irrigation  maintenance  priced  at   CFAP
300/day, the estimated opportunity cost  of labor during dry seasons.    On
these bases, the economic rates of return for individual types of
subprojects are summarized as follows and are detailed in Annex 7-1 and
Working Paper B-5.
Summary Results of Economic Rate of Return Calculations
rate of return
base case
bottomland development                              222
pump irrigation                                     302
C. Risks
7.04      The technical risks associated with the proposed investments  are
minimal  because  they  involve  well-known  and  simple  techniques.   The
project, however, faces a few other risks. First, low motivation and poor
qualification of local staff may slow the pace of development. The risk is
expected to be minimized by substantial training, which has already
started, combined with increasingly effective authority of the Governors.
Second, assets created under the project may not be adequately maintained
because beneficiaries lose interest. Several measures are envisaged which



- 39 -
would reduce this risk under the proposed project. Intensive discussion
between beneficiaries and field technical staff during identification and
preparation phases and a development contract between beneficiaries and
local authorities laying down all the responsibilities and obligations
would ensure their commitment. In addition, works would be designed in
such a way that maintenance would not require skills, materials and tools
not readily available  at the  village level.   Finally, coordination with
other donors and NGOs may prove difficult. This risk would be reduced by
regular coordination meetings to be held by the Government and by the
organizational study to recommend how the harmonization of the rules and
procedures imposed by various donors would be achieved.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Sd1       During negotiations,  assurances on  the following major  points
were obtained:
(a) for selection of small rural operations to be financed, the
criteria would be that the project be:
(i) directly productive farming activities in conformity with
national and provincial development strategy; (ii) financially
self-supportive; (iii) within the project area; (iv) requested by
and manifestly in the interest of a group or groups of producers;
sv) easily maintained by beneficiaries; and (vi) environmentally
sound. Beneficiaries would have to make a downpayment of 5X on a
Capital Replacement Account if there are medium term assets, and
except for self-standing soil erosion control works and village
nurseries, would be required to reimburse costs of materials
financed by the project for wells construction (paras. 2.04 and
2.05);
tb) consultants with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
would be recruited following IDA guidelines. (para. 3.08);
(c) the project would establish and maintain separate project-related
accounts  in  accordance  with  sound  and  accepted   accounting
principles and practices (para. 4.13);
(d) three financial controllers in the provinces and bookkeepers in
each district would be recruited not later than October 1, 1988
(para. 4.13);
(e) the project-related accounts would be audited annually during
project implementation by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
and financed by the Project. Audited financial statements and
reports of such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably
request, would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of each  fiscal  year.   The auditor's  report would  include  a
statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal



- 40 -
controls on whether or not TDA funds have been used for their
intended purposes. The report will also confirm that SOEs
submitted as justification for disbursement under categories (1)
through (6) of para. 3.10 correctly reflect detailed records kept
by the Project (para. 4.14).
(f)  the Government  would  submit  to  IDA  annual  progress  reports
including budgeted and actual expenditures, the progress achieved
itn the preparation and execution of SROs, and the status of each
Capital Replacement Account (para. 4.15);
(g) as a condition for the provision of medium term assets, including
animals, to any group of producers, the group would open and pay
into its Capital Replacement Account an amount of at least St of
the delivered cost of such assets, and such payments would be
verified by the DDRM unit (para. 4.17);
(h) the DDRM unit would examine at least twice a year the status of
each Capital Replacement Account and in the case of delinquency,
is4ue the necessary instructions for all appropriate measures to
be taken to ensure that all arrears are paid promptly (para.
4.18);
ii) the Government would submit to IDA for information annual
provincial programs of SROs not later than August 31 of each year
(para. 4.21);
(j) the Government would convene regular meetings at least once a
year, with local representatives of the donors involved in
SRO-type operations, to discuss their investment programs, rules
and procedures, evaluation of past activities, etc., in order to
improve coordination and programming (para. 4.24); and
(k) upon completion of the organizational study, the Government would
review with IDA the recommendation of the study and not later
than December 31, 1990, the Government would carry out those
recommendations approved by IDA (para. 4.25).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  the project accounting system and procedures satisfactory to  IDA
be established and that the Financial Director be recruited
(para. 4.13); and
(b) the Government has presented to IDA the first year program of
SROs to be financed after project start-up (para. 4.25).
8.03      Conditions of disbursement would be that:
(a)  for civil  works  and  supplies,  and  agricultural  inputs,  the
Government presents drafts of the framework agreement and the
development contract satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.10); and



- 41 -
(b)  for  goods  and  services   for  unidentified  SRoe,  if   annual
provincial programs include SROs which are other than the models
already identified, DDRM submits a representative model to the
technical committee which invites local representatives of IDA
and the Swiss Development Cooperation to assess the new model and
ensure that it meets the selection criteria (para. 4.21).
8.04      With the indicated assurances  and conditions, the project  would
be suitable for an IDA credit equivalent to SDR 7.1 million (US$9.3
million) to the Republic of Niger.



-42 -                                ANNEX 2 - 1
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.  Financial Director
1.        Under the direction of the Project Coordinator, the expert would
have primary responsibilities for:
(a) establishing and maintaining separate project-related accounts by
consolidating the central and districts accounts;
(b) processing of tender documents and supervision of all procurement
procedures for expenditures not related to direct investments of
SROs;
(c) ensuring that proper accounts are kept of each district program
of SROs by bookkeepers and that adequate justification for
expenditures is submitted regularly from the districts through
the provinces to the project management unit;
(d) regularly supervising the financial controllers at the provinces
who would in turn carry out ex-post checking of expenditures made
at district levels;
(e) preparing withdrawal applications and Statements of Expenditure
and maintaining disbursement records;
(f) monitoring secondary accounts at the districts and replenishing
them as necessary from the Central Special Account; and
(g) training a local accountant in the project management unit,
financial controllers and bookkeepers.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Financial Director would
be:
(a) a post-graduate degree (or its equivalent) or membership in a
recognized professional lobby evidencing formal knowledge of
modern accounting theory and practice in accordance with
generally accepted international standards;
(b) at least ten years' professional experience, preferably in a
country using the OCAM or French accounting plans in Africa;
(c) experience with data processing on computers; and
(d) fluency in French.



43                                   ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 2
B.   Development Volunteers  (each in the Niamey, Dosso and Tahoua
Provinces)
1.        Under the direction of the Provincial Directors of Planning,
three development volunteers would have responsibilities for:
(a) assisting the Provincial Directors of Planning in coordinating
the preparation/appraisal/execution of the Provincial SRO
programs;
(b) providing technical assistance to district staff in preparation
work through frequent field visits;
(c) participating in appraisal of SROs; and
(d) identifying needs for complementary studies.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the development volunteers
would be:
(a) a university degree in agronomics, regional economic planning or
rural engineering as basic training;
(b) complementary training in cooperative management, ecology and
pedagogy;
(c) five years' experience in rural development or planning; and
(d) fluency in French.



1116ER
OE1I O  PEITITES OPER*IIOhS K  KVELOPPIEUET E    L_
Project CaqIpfiots by Year
totals Includlng Coitiapmpes                                   totals Including Coati -gueies
Uif  ' 000l                                                    (US$ ' 001
1961/1989  1989/t990 190/1991 1991/92  1992/19J3   Total          1981/1989 1989/1990 t990/199t 1991/1902 1992/1993 Total
*nsssionoxmt. 9s.:2sasu  n::s.sXs 392:s:::  ::::5: . nszsu  ass:sss   S::::sz.n san::::: cnn::: .s a::::::::: a:sx:s:: razz::z
A. PTIIES OPEIRATIONS DE DVELOPPENFXT ItUAL         306.488   3t9.51   424.7t4    626.8S1    653.265  2.333.0t8       1.041     1.084     1.440     2.125     2.214   7.909
G. M7ITE Kt uStIO                                   140.318    08 ON8   Itt.U42    138.654    121.374    819.946         476       368       376       470       411   2.102
C. APlUI AUX SEVICES TECNUIWES                     2M5.095  1t0,147   29t 752    282.28    295. 65   1,285.478           865       S43       989       959      1.002   4.358
D. PSUATION                                         101.232    85.14S    79.939     63.412     61.640    3S1,370         343       289       271       215       209   1.32t
E. ETUDES                                          480.437    27,399    28. 608     29.996     31.572    5t8.012       1.56t        93        97        102       10t   1.959
Total PlUlECT COSTS                                 1.265.570   700.401   936,605  1.141.771  1.163.508  5.207.855       4.290     2.374     3.175     3.870     3.944  17.654
_Ut-st _::s ___._.             as.n_ _.   .... Soso _ .s_s.g.. .. ... __ss   .a.. ...... X__. . 2ah ...____s. ..s.._   _ _   . _ _ _ . .
I b~st IS. 198? 21:20
I



NIGEh
P80.8T DE PEIITES OPER6ATIONS Of DVEtOPPENENT RUAL
Sw ory Accoue ts bY Ywr
Totals Including Continrqg c."                                            lotatl  ll*tuding Contipmlie.s
IFCrF  'oOtl                                                              UISS lo")
....... ... .. ... ........ .......... .. . .. .,,.,,..........................  ------------------------------------------
1981/1988   1989/1990  1990/1991 1991/1M    19992/1993            TotWl       191/1989 1989/1990 1990/1991 t1991 9M  19921t993 lotal
sS*a.*s*tS  zs.a *tus#%assta:..  ssszs            ssssssssss  sssssssas S      tssssS. gstts2 xsttttst ss ts2sags alt2s:sss  a.nsssnt .:ss.s.
1. INmSTHENT COSTS
A. GENtE CIVIt                                      202.257    210.424    289.609        306.338      297.532   1.306 .s0             688         713         982       1.038       I.009    4.430
a. vtiNCUIES                                        107.377            -    70.298        79.010        15.636      313.252           364           -         238         271         IS9    1.091
C. EqutouEtiul
N7OT1'SI                                           7.045       7. 155      7.289        7.46?        7.752       36.688            24           24          25          25          26       124
EOttlPEtNtE   BUREAU                             24.985            -       7.133             -                   32.118            85            -          24           -           -       109
........ ....... .. ...... ... .. ........ .... ...... ....  ...    ....... ......... .. ... . ..  .. .. ..... ...... ... ....
Sib-lotal EQUIPElENT                                 32.029       7. III     14.402         7.467        7. 752      68I so           109          24          49          25           26      233
D. INUTS 6AgICOLfS                                   53. 191     55. 110     75. 1"      84.302        81.278      353. 049          80         16?         268         286         276    1. I97
E. IMV&SISSNENITS NON  I-DENTMIES                    45.296      48.962      48.716      228.773      266.703       636,452           14          ts9         t6s         77S         S04   2.157
F. ASSISTANCE TECUNIUIt
......... ....... ...
ASSISTANCE  TECMIUIf  a LONG team                63.638      64.987      68.393        8. 490       71. 312     334.819           216         220         225          232         242    1. 13
CONSULITNTS                                      47.285      28.9 73     29.569        10.178        S. 29      121.334          1SO          98          oo           35          t8      41t
. ... ........ ..  .... .................  ............. ..........   ............. ..... ...... .... ..... .  ......... .. ........ ... ... ... ... .........  ............ .......
S4-rotal ASSISTAICE TEOUI4UE                        1 0.923      93.960      95.992        78.668       76.610      456. 153          376         319         325         267         260    1.546
GC E1U1 S5                                          460.437      27. 9      28. 08       29.998        31.572      57S.012         1.561          93          97          102         l07    1. 95.
v. ntSItlER                                           s.s8t                        -             -            -       sSst             t9            *           -           *           -         s
............... .... ..... .... . ...... ......... .. . ... ... ... ... .. ..........  ......... ... ... . .. . ... ... ... ..    ... ..... ......... ........... ...
Total Im ESthENT COSTS                               1.017.790    44t.009    626.795    A8S.486           817.083  3.716.184           3.450       1.495       2.12S       2.764       2.770   12.604
.s4*3=s:t ..   .... a    ...s.........lsSZlttS                    ........&f   . ..zA-SS  ...3S   SS.......  *Az-...st   ~a. . i....  ..*..4.....~ *.
It. RECtMN 1 COSIS cs
............
A. PtNSONSit LOCAI
. ....... ......
PERSONNI  lOCAL IONCTIONAIRE                    It, 124     18. tSt    29.059        30.802        34. 6       129. 792           58          62           99         104        1I?       440
PERSONNEL tOCAt CONTRACtUEt                     43.339      45929       52.712       51,875        59.228      257.094           147         156         179          to6        201       872
S,tilolaI PERSONNEl IOCAt                           60.463      64.091      81. 7          . 677     93.884 31 6.886                20s         217         277           4         318    1.311
s. FAtlS N  FONCTIONNENENt VENICULES                61.483      85,459   t19.764        126.019       132.945      545.670           276         290         406         427         451      . 850
C. IRMAS Of IINCTIOUINFmtN   FOMItION               53. 947     56. 174     50.340       b3.234       56.342       270.036           1i63         9o         171         180          l9o      jtS
0. LIRES FrS DE FNClOUiINENI                        22.333      23.488      27.103       28.146        30.138      131.610            76          so          92          97         102       446
E. AUDIT                                            29.553      30.1t0      30. A32      31.S07       33. tl7      1ss. 48           too         102         lOs         W08          1:2      527
.. ..,___. .__. ... ...... _._,,_...  - --.-, ....... .......... ............. ..... ....._ ........... ....... _...  .... ..... _. .. _._._._........_ . .... .... . . .
total RicIJU1Nt t  COStS                               247. 779   259. 392   309.8tO         326.26b      346.425   1.489. 691           840         879        1. o0o      . 106       1. 174   5.0bo
.-.:s ...:S..#  C.2St  ::S:.s:. ::::::::.. ..;..s:-s  t. .s.Z .* ..             s.s*hs: ssst:.s:.  ::s..s.. :::      -ss:z:t Z-::;:-.: *sf:s;:
total PIOtcI COSIS                                    1.26b.570    700.401    936.605   1.141.771 t.163.508  5.207.855                  4.290       2.374       3. t7b       3.870       3.944   11. 654
*.. sa:m    ssn*s  st :   g, as;.t: s    ;sn.s3    .s8:*s s:   t3t* t   tt.::   3;ns:  sstss    tZ,t.
t _veet 19. 1987  21 20
x
t4



- 46 -                                  Annex-3-3
NIGER
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal yearlsemester              Disbursements            cumulative       All Regions
(ending on dates shown)       Semester     cumulative    disbursement       agricultural
credit profile (2)
(US$106)                  (2)
FY 1988
June 30, 1988 1/                 0              0               0                 1
FY 1989
December 31, 1988 2/          2.2 31           2.2             24                 4
June 30, 1989                 0.3              2.5             27                10
FY 1990
December 31, 1989             0.4              2.9             31                19
June 30, 1990                 0.5              3.4             37               29
FY 1991
December 31, 1990             0.5              3.9             42               40
June 30, 1991                 0.7              4.6             49               51
FY 1992
December 31, 1991             0.8              5.4             58               61
June 30, 1992                 0.8              6.2             67               70
FY 1993
December 31, 1992             0.8              7.0             75                78
June 30, 1993                 0.7              7.7             83               85
FY 1994
December 31, 1993             0.7              8.4             90               91
June 30, 1994                 0.4              8.8             95               95
FY 1995
December 31, 1994             0.3              9.1             98               99
June 30, 1995                 0.2              9.3            100              100
1/ Expected date of Board Presentations  February 1988
21 Expected date of Credit Effectivenesss July 1988
3/ Includes refinancing of PPF (US$1.5 million) and initial deposit into Special Account
(US$0.7 million)



Annex 4-1
47             Page 1 of 3
Ir -~~~~~
L------<--111
Eli       @             L______Et.IXl
|     g      g      g   tj~~~~~UiiIIIi'
,~~~~



-48 -Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 3
Id           I
011 1~~~~
II@ 
I -



- 49 -
Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 4
FIN NWl ono 8
vithout rojict              nith proJect A/
et       dry   total        et      dry     total
Ar cultivated by famr (1/100 h)
rice                                   400                        4.00
sugar cm                                        0.50                        1.50
Idt potaton                                     1.50                       3.50
orghui/cpe                            20.00
caava                                          10.00                      10.00
onions                                          1.00                       3.0
sorghcowpa  irrigate                                            12.00
"izen.                                                                     4.00
grounuts                                                          3.00
veetalein                                                                  3.00
fodder                                                            5.00
total                                 24.00    13.00             24.00    25.00
Yields lkg/ha)
ric                                    s00                        2500
sar cone                                        9000                      20000
swet potatoe                                   10000                      18000
sorghu                                  400
COpWS                                   150
cassava                                         8000                      19000
mins.                                          1500                       25000
swghu  irrigted                                                   2500
c.w"s irrigated                                                    60
Mize                                                                       2500
gronnuts                                                          1000
.ebebles                                                                  15000
fodder                                                            80
Production (kg)
rice                                     32        0        0      100        0
sugr cm                                   0       45        0        0      300
set ptatoe                                0      150        0        0      630
sorghm                                    0        0        0      300        0
CoUp"                                    30        0        0       72        0
cassiva                                   0      800        0        0     1800
oaions                                    0      150        0        0      750
mize                                      0        0        0        0      100
grdnuts                                   0        0        0       30        0
vegtables                                 0        0        0        0      450
fodder                                    0        0        0      400        0
Bross Value of Production ICFAF)
rice                                   2240        0              7000        0
sgar cane                                 0     1125                 0     7500
set potatoe                               0     9450                 0    39690
orghum                                 4160        0             1600         0
coop"                                  2400        0              5760        0
casva                                     0    41600                 0    93600



-50-                                        Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 4
.1gm.                                      0     9300                  0    46500
.1:e                                       0        0                  0     100
grmgindhuts                                0        0               2100        0
vegtabls                                   0        0                  0    22100
fodd                                       0        0               4000        0
Total Orss Valt of PrWduction            300    61475    70215    34460   214NP0   249350
Productio Couts (CfAfl
$"ds                                                       1000                        4044
fertilizers                                                                            7a2
pesticids                                                                              7350
maintesnan   and oparations bI                             20                         1U413
total                                                     3500                        36033
bet Vainl of Production per Year (CFAF)                    6615                       211317
Labor Requirmoent landays)
cultivation                                                  29                          44
ater lifting                                                119                          65
ater distribution                                           119                         261
total                                                       267                         372
Net Valu  per W anday (CFAF)                                 250                        5S8
ai Situation of fourth year since start-up of production.
bi Without project: replacemnt of caleassm, cords, and  mall tools.
With project: maintenance of & coment-lined aell, 'delou, irrigtion basins, PVC pipes,
and anial and replacement of smull tools.



Annex 6* A
Page 3 ol! 4
FD UNmT MORL W liUlTIE
uithot orojKt             oith project A/
at      dry    total        et      dry    totAl
_~~~~~~~                                               0e .        a..
rAS Cultivated by Ferw   11100 ha)
sorghuu/cop                           21.5                         2.5
sorgholcoupeas irrigated                                           15
maie                                                                         S
cauava                                             10                          4
sut potatoes                                    7.5                         2.5
vegtable                               2.5      2.5               3.5      7.5
anio                                     1        1                 I      3.5
ptatoe                                          0.5                        2.5
foddr,                                                              3
total                                   25    21.5                 25       25
Yieids (kg/ba)
swrghe                                 400                       1000
coup"s                                 150                        300
i-gimu irrigated                                                 2500
coupes irrigate                                                   600
maize                                                    .2500
cassua                                         8000                      16000
"et potaton                                   10000                      18000
vegetables                             000    7000               6000    15000
onions                                12000   15000             18000   25000
potatoe                                       lO00                       25000
fodder                                                           6000
Production (kg)
sorghum                                           0               40         0
coupes                                  32        0                98        0
izn                                      0        0                 0      125
clssava                                  0      800                 0      720
snt potatoes                             0      750                 0      450
vegetabie                              150      175               260    1125
onions                                 120      150               180      675
potatoe                                  0       50                 0      625
fodder                                   0        0               240        0
Bross Valu of Prduction (CF*F)
sorghum                               4472        0             20800        0
coupas                                2580        0              7600        0
"its                                     0        0                 0    6375
cassava                                  0   41600                  0    3740
sut potatoe                              0    47250                 0    28350
vgetable                              7500    6750              14000   56250
onions                                7440    9300              11160    54250
pottoe                                   0    3200                  0    40000
fodder                                   0        0              2400        0
Total Grass Value of Production       2192   110100   132092    56160   22265   27625
Production Costs (CfAF)



- 52 -
Annex 6-1
Page 4 of 4
Mud.                                                      1250                      134
fertilils                                                 2500                      1119
puticun                                                                              7500
mintance as  operations                                                             55421
mrtization of pups                                                                  23125
total                                                     6750                     11593
let Value of Prouction per Yar ICFAF)                    123342                     129
Labor  .quilrumt (mndys)
cultivation                                                 49 
water liftiq                                               204                          5
wter distribtion                                           204                        275
total                                                      441                        345
I      4
bt Value er PAlny ICFWI                                     248                        473
ai Situation of fourth year since start-up of production.
bi Nithaut projects rplpuhunt of calebasses cors ad sull tools.
Vith projeKt: muintunmce of a cuo nt-lined well, delou', irrigation basins, PVC pipes
and animul diesl for a pup and replacment of small tools.



- 53 -
Annex 6-2
NICER
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
GOVERNMENT PROJECT RELATED CASH LO  !/
PY0       PY1        PY2       PY8        PY4       PYs       PY6-10     PY11-20    PY21-40
1987/88   1988/89   1989/ W    1990/91   1091/92   1992/98   1993/94-   1998/09-    2007/9-
197/09    2004/07
;oures/Inf low
IDA Credit             448       890        888       446        548       565           -          -           -
Swiss Grnnt              -       890        888       446        648       668           -          -           -
Total                  448       780        666       890       1,088     1,106          -          -           -
kppIi I.ti on/Outflow
Project Net Costs k   448        628        700       937       1,142     1,164        886        886         886
Debt Servite IDA
Comitment chars   &
servico charges e/      -        16         18        18         19        20          20         10           8
PrincTpal payment !/   -          -          -         -          -         -           -         64         108
Total application      443       839        716       956       1,161     1,184        406        458         W0i
Surplus (deficit)         0       (69)       (60)      (86)       (75)      (78)       (406)      (458)       (602)
I/  In current terms throughout the project, thereafter, In constant 1993 terms.  Based on 6-year implementation
schedule
F/ Prom 1908 onwords recurrent expenditures plus amortization' of vehicles over three years and motor cycles
over two yars
/ Standard IDA terms
T iwo percent per year of the principal amount during PY11-20 and 4S per year during the remaining period.



- 54 -
Annex 7-1
NIGER
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS, BENEFITS AND RATES OF RETURN
A.  Key Parameters used in Economic Analysis
Output Prices:  (a) Economic prices of rice, sorghum and maize, are based
on the Bank's commodity price projection made on
February 5, 1987 up to 1995.
(b) Economic price oS firewood is estimated at CFAF 40/kg
or CFAF 10,000/m as established in the Staff Appraisal
Report of the Second Energy Project.
(c) All the other output prices (cassana, sweet potatoes,
potatoes, onions, vegetables, sugar cane, cowpeas,
groundnuts, and wood poles) are based on observed
market  prices,   adjusted   to   take   into   account
transportation and marketing costs and losses.
Input Prices:       Assuming that Niger would import fertilizer from
international markets, import parity fertilizer prices
are estimated for urea and TSP, using Bank's commodity
price projection made on February 5, 1987 up to 1995.
For NPK, its import parity prices are estimated based
on urea, TSP and potassium chloride.
Labor:              Opportunity cost of farm labor at CFAF 300 per day
during off-peak dry season.
Replacement
of equipment:       Cement-lined wells:  every 20 years; delou: every 10
years; irrigation basins and PVC pipes: every 10 years;
pumps: every 4 years; agricultural tools: every 5
years.
Costs:          (a) With project costs include only direct costs of
investment and operations but exclude costs related to
preparation/supervision and extension services provided
by the administration.
(b) Without project costs include labor required to dig
traditional wells every year.
B. Economic Analyses (see tables)
Model Bottomland
Model Pump Irrigation



Annex  7-1
Page ' Ur 6
08/11/87                              ECONO8IC ANALYSIS OF #ODEL BOTTWLAIID a/
PYO      PYI       PY2      PY3       PY4       PY5      PY6       PY7       PY3      P99      PYIO      PYII     PY12    P013       P014      PYIS      PY16     PY17      PYlE      PY19     PY20
A. BENEFITS
Production (kg)
rice                            1920        0      3600      3600     3600      6000     6000      6000      6000     bOOO      6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000     6000      b         0i b600  6000      6000
sugar cane                      2703         0     9000      9000     9000    18000    18000    18000    18000    18000    18             000    18000    18000    18000    19000    1800Q0   loQ           0sooo    1800l     18000
sweet potatoes                  9000         0    19000    18000    1900'   37800    37800    37800    37800    37900    37800    37800    37800    37800    37800    37800    37800    3780'    37800    37800    37800
sorghuB                         4800         0    13500    13500    13500    18000    18000    18000    18000         8000    18000    1000    18001    18000    18000    10000    18000    10000           18000     8000    18000
co*peas                         1800         0     3600      3600     3600      4320     4320      437J      4320     4320      4320     4320      4320      4320     4320      4320      4320     4320      4320     4320      4320
cassava                        48000         0    90000    90000    90000   108000   109000   108010   1090000  10800   108000   108000   108000   100                 000   108000   108000   108000 108000   10 8000   108000
onions                          9000        0    24000    24000    24000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000
maize                              0         0     2700     2700      2700      6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000     6000      6000      6000     600       6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000
groundnuts                         0         0      960       940      960      18000     1800      1800      1800     IO                180       1800      1800     19008100  1800     1800      1800      1800     I OO      1800
vegetables                         0         0    12000    12000    12000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000
fodders                            0         0     9000      9000     9000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000
firewood /d)                       0        0         0        0         0        62        4         4         4       71         4        4         4       71         4         4        4        71         4        4         4
wood poles (no.)                   0        0         0         0        0       480        0         0         0      480         0        0         0      480         0         0        0       480         0        u         0
Incremental Production (kg)
rice                               0    -1920      1880      1680     1680      4080     4080      4080     4000      4080      4080     48        4080     4080      4080      4080     4080      4080     4090      4080      408O
sugar cane                         0    -2700      6300     6300      6300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300    15300
sweet Potatoes                     0    -9000      9000     9000      9000    28800    29800    28800    28800    28800    288O0    28800    2M88O    28800    28800    28800    28800    28800    28000    28800    28000
sorghum                            0    -4800      8700     8700       700    13200    13200    13200    13200    13200    13200    13200    13200    13200    13200    13200    13208    1320             13200    13200    13200
coupeas                            0    -1800      1800     1800      1800      2520     2520      2520     2520      2520     2520      2520      2520     2520      2520     2520      2520      2520     2520      2520     2520
cassava                            0   -48000    42000    42000    42000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    60000    600                60000    60000    60000
onions                             0    -9000    15000    15000    15000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000    36000
oaize                              0        0      2700     2700      2700      6000     6000      6000     6000      6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000     6000
groundnuts                         0        0       960       960      960      1800     1800      1800      1900     1800      1900     1800      1800     1800      1800      1800     1800      1800     1800      1900      1800
vegetables                         0        0    12000    12000    12000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000    27000
fodders                            0        0      9000     9000      9000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    24000
fireeood id)                       0        0         0        0         0        62        4         4        4        71         4        4         4       71         4         4        4        71        4         4         4
wood poles (no.)                   0        0         0         0        0       480        0         0         0      480         0        0         0      480         0         0        0       480        0         0         0
Prices (CFAF/kg)
rice                              71       71        72       75        78        79       79        79        79       80        so            80        80e  80       80       80        80        80       80        80        0
sugar cane                        25       25        25       25        25        25       25        75        25       25        25       25        25       25        25        25       25        25       25        25        25
sweet potatoes                    63       63        63        63       63        63       63        63        63       63        63       63        63       63        63       63        63        63       63        63       63
sorghum                           56       52        54        58       63        63       63        63        63       64        64       64        64       64        64        64       64        64       64        64        64
cowpeas                           79       79        79        79       79        79       79        79       79        79        79       79        79       79        75        79       79        79       79        79        79
cassava                           52       52        52        52       52        52       52        52        52       52        52       52        52       52        52        52       52        52       52        52        52
onions                            62       62        62        62       62        62       62        62       62        42        62       62        b2       62        62        62       62        62       62        62        62
maize                             55        51       53        56       61        61       61        61        61       61        61       61        b1       61        61        61       61        61       61        61        61
groundnuts                        65       65        65       65        65        65       65        65       65        65        65       65        65       65        65        65       65        65       65        65        65
vegetables                        50        50       50        50       50        50        50       50        50       50        50       50        50       50        50        50       50 -                50       50        50
fodders                           10       10        10        10       10        10       10        10        10       10        10       10        10       10        10        10       10        10       10        10       10
firewood (CFAF/M3)             10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    0000    10(00    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000
wood poles ICFAF/no.)            500      500       500       500      NO5       500      500       500       50       500       500      500       500      500       500      500       500       500      500      500       500



56 -
Annex  7-'
Page  2 of  li
Incremental Benetits [ 000 CFAF)
rice                              0      -136       121      126       131      322       322      322       322      326       326      326       326       326      326       326      326       326       326      326       326
sugar cane                         0      -68       158      158       158      393       383      383       383      383       393       383      383       383      383       383       383      383       383      383       383
sweet Potatoes                     0     -567       567      567       567     1814      1914     1814      1814      1914     1814      1814     1814      1914     1814      1814     1814      1814      1814     1814      1814
surghfi                            0     -250       470      505       549      832       832      832       832      845       845       845      845       845      845       845       845      845       845      845       845
coupeas                           0      -142       142      142       142      199       199      199       199      199       199       199     I         199     I         199      199      I         199      199       199
cassava                            0    -2496     2184      2184      2184     3120      3120     3120      3120     3120      3120     3120      3120      3120     3120      3120     3120      3120     3120      3120      3120
onions                             0     -559      930       930       930     2232      2232     2232      2232     2232      2232     2232      2232      2232     2232      2232     2232      2232      2232     2232      2232
maize                              0        0       143      151       165      366       366      366       3b6      366       366       366      366       366      366       366      366       366       366      366       366
groundnuts                         0        0        62       62        62      117       11?      117       117      117       117       117      117       117      117       117       117      117       117      117       117
vegetables                         0        0       600      600       600     1350      1350     1350      1350     1350      1350      1350     1350      1350     1350      1350      1350     1350      1350     1350      1350
fedders                           0         0       90        90       90       240       240      240       240      240       240      240       240       240      240      2l0       240       240       240      240       240
firevood (CFAF/dl                 0         0        0         0         0      620        40       40        40      710        40        40       40       710       40        40       40       710        40       40        40
wood poles  CFAF/no.j             0         0        0         0         0      240         0        0         0      240         0         0        0       240        0         0        0       240         0        0         0
Total                               0    -4217      5467     5515      5577    11835    11015    11015    11015    11942    11032    11032    11032    11942    11032    11032    11032    11942    11032    11032    11032
P. COSTS
WITH PROJECT
Investment 1000 CFAF)
Nells 130)                               9273
delous (301                              1914                                            1914                                            1914                                           1740
oxen 130)                                2400
metal irrigation basins 190)             1980                                                                                            1980
PVC pipes (2100.1                        4158                                                                                            4158
agricultural materials                   2100                                            2100                                            2100                                           2100
plants                                    565
Total                                    22390         0        0         0         0     4014        0         0         0        0    10152         0         0        0         0     '3840        0         0        0         0
Operating Costs i1000 CFAF)
maintenance of works                         0       955      955       955      955       9SS      955       955       955      955       955      955       955      955       955       955      9         955      955       955
fertilizers
urea suantities (kg)                               1785     1785      1785     1740      1740      1740     1740      1740     1740      1740     1740      1740     1740        93        93       93        93       3        93
prices (CFAF/kg)                               92       104       116      117       117      118       119      119       122       125      128       132      134       134      134       134       134      134       134
value                                         164       186      207       204       204      205       207      207       212      218       223       230      233        12        12       12        12       12        12
TSP quantities (kg)                                 490      480       480      720       720       720      720       720      720       720      720       720       720      720       720      720       720       720      720
prites (CFAF/kgl                                80        82        84       86        87       88        89       91        91       92        92        93       93        93       93        93        93       93        93
value                                           38        39        40       62        63       63        64       66        66        66       66        67       67        67        67       67        67       67        67
8PK quantities (kg)                                5190     5190      5190     5820      5820      5820     5820      5820     5820      5820     5820      5820      5820     5820      5820     5820      5820      5820     5820
prites ICFAF/kgl                                76        82        87       88        89       89        90       91        92        94       95        97       98        98        98       98        98       98        9B
value                                          394       426       452      512       518      518       524      530       535       547      553       565      570       570       570      570       570      570       570
total 1 000 CFAFI                                   597      651       6SS      778       784       787      795       802      813       831      842       861       870      650       650      650       650       650      650
seeds                                                242      242       242       242      242       242      242       242      242       242       242      242       242      242       242       242      242       242      242
oestlcides                                           401      401       401       441      441       441      441       441      441       441       441      441       441      441       441       441      440       441      441
Total Operating costs                               3383     3383      3383      337B     3378      3378     3378      3378     3378      3378      3378     3378      3378     1711      1731      1731     1731      1731     1731
Labor isardavsl
we!  constfuctior                         3300
Cultivatlon                                         2901     2901      2901      3153     3153      3153     3153      3153     3153      3153     3153      3153      3153     3153      3153      3153     3153      3153     3153



57                                                                                              Annex 7-J
.Page 3 of 6
water lifting                                       1641      1641      l41      1956      1956     1956      19-6     1950      1956      1956     1950      195t      1956     1956      1956     1956      1956      1956     1956
water distribution                                  33128    1312.8   13128    1!648    15648    15648    S1o48    1548    1564e    15648    15648    15648    15648    15648    15048    15640    1564S    15648    15648
tree plant. maint. 6 cutting               200         3         5        3       850        5O       5'        so      83         IO       50        50      850        5v        50        50 850             50        50       5O
total                                     3500    17673    17673    17673    21607    2-407    208107    208(07   21107    20807    20807    20807    2!607    20807    20807    20107    21617    20807    20807    20807
Value of Labor (at CFFSOO/eaondayl        1050      5302      5302     5302      6482     t242      6242      6242     6482      6242     6242      6242     6482      6242      6242     6242      6402      6242     6242      6242
TOTAL COSTS WITH PROJECT                 23440      8685     8685      8685      9861    13634      9620     9620      9860      9620    19772      9620     9860      9620      7973    11913      8213     7973      7973      7973
WITHOUT PRDJECT COSTS ('000 CFAF)
Investient
traditional wells                          480       480      480       480       480      480       480      480       480      480       480       480      480       480      480       480       480      480       480       480
calebasse & cords                          120       120       120      120       120      120       120       120      i20       120      120       121      120       120       120      120       120      120       120       120
agricultural oaterials                     120       120       120      120       120      120       120       120      120       120      120       120      120       120       120      120       120      120       120       120
total                                      720       720      720       720       720      720       720      720       720      720       720       720      720       720      720       720       721      720       720      720
Coerating Costs
Aaintenance of works                        68        60        60       60        60       60        60       60        60        60       60        61       60        60       60        60        61       60        61       60
seeds                                       60        60       60        60        60       60 t1 O1                     60        to       60        60       60        613      60        60        60       60        60       60
total                                      120       120       1201     120       120      120       120      120       120       120      120       120      120       120      120       120       120      120       120      120
Labor (eandays)
well construction                          040       840      840       840       840      840       840      840       840      846       940      840       840       840      040       841      840       840      840       840
cultivation                               2013      2013     2013      2013      2013     2013      20131    20131     2013     2013      2013     2013      2013      2013     2013      2013      2013     2013      2013     2013
water lifting                             7158      7158     7150      7158      71S8     71S8      7153     7158      7150      7158     ?158      7158     7158      7158     7158      7150      7158     7158      7158     7158
water distributior.                       7158      7158     7158      7158      7158     7156      7158     71N6      7158     7156      7158      7158     7150      7158     7158      7158      7158     7158      7158     7158
total                                    17169    17169    17169    17169    17169    17169    17169    17169    17169    17169    17169    Pl169    17169    17169    17169    171u9    17169    17169    17169    17169
Value of Labor (at CFAF300Ieanday)        5151      S151     5151      5151      5151     5151      5151     5151      51l1   S151        5151      5151     515I      5151     5151      5151     5151      5151      5151     511
TOTAL COSTS hWTHOUT PROJECT               5991      5991     599       5991      5991     5991      5991     5991      5991     5991      5991     5991      5991      5991     5991      5991     5991      5991     5991      5991
INCREMENTAL COSTS                        17449      2694     2694      2694     3869      7643      3629     3629      -N69     3629    13781      3629      3869      3629     1982      5822     2222      1982     1982      1982
hET INCREMENTAL 8ENEFITS                -21666      2773     2821      2893      7966     3372      7386     7386      8073     7403    -2749       7403     8073      7403     9051      5210     9720      9050     9050      9050
al  Typical Werimeter of 15 ha, vith one well per O.S hi 130 wells) eoauloed with delou,  60 beneficiaries ;er oeriinter.
guess                   0.2
IRR
0.22



- 58 _
Annex 7-1
08;12187                               ECNIOM0C 4NALYSIS OF MODEL PUMP IRP1IAT:ON a!                                                                                                                                                Page  4  of 6
PYO      PYI       PY2       P13       PY4       PY3       PYb       PY?      Pye       Fv9      PflO      P1ll      PY12     0413      PY14      PyI      PY;b    P0!7        PvlO      PYI9      PY20
A. BENEFITS
Production (kg)
s5rg0hus                        0192         0    15120    15120    15120    2B8OP    28800    286OO    2880            2&8800 280 0 8 28800    29800    2seo8    28800    28800    28800    2880)    28800    28800    28800
cowpeas                         2322          0     43210     4320      4320     7020      1020      7020      7)20      71020     1120     7)20      7020      7020      7020      7020      7020      7020     7020      7020      7020
eaaze                              o0         0     27v0 210            2700       9000      90       000h000 90           00       000     9000      9300      9000      9000      9000      9000     9000      9000      40        9000
cassava                        57600         o    81000    81200      81O80     51840    51840   50840    01840    51840    51840    51840    51840    51840    51840    52840    51840    51840    521840    51840    51840
sweet potatoes                 54000         0    43200    43200    43200    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400    32400
vegetables                     23400          0    48600    46000    48600               10 116 0   101160             10100 101100 101100 IQ1160   11100   10110b)   101100 liOltO   1h010  llbO1Q 0   101160   101160   10100
Onions                         19440         0    46800    40900    46800    70960    75960    759600    7590    75960    75Q60    '5960   71904               75900    75960    75960    7i960    75960    75960    75960    75960
potatoes                        3600         0    14400    14400    14400    45000    45000    45000    45000    45000    4000             S 45000    45000    4500'   45000    45000    45000    4S000    45000    40000    45000
fodders                             0        0      5400      5400      5400    17280    17280    1260    17280    17288    17280    17280    17290    17290    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280
firewood (3)                       0         0         0 o                 0      b          9         9         9        7C         9        9         0        7b         9         9         9       76         9         9         9
wood poles Ino.)                    0        0         0         0         0       480         0        0         0       480         0         0         0      480         0         0         0      480          0        0         8
Ircreaental Production (kg)
scrgua                                   -6192      8928    8s928        928    22608    22608    22608    22008    22608    22608    22608    22008    22608    22608    22608    22608    22608    22008    22608    22608
coepeas                                  -2322      1998      1998      1998     4698      4698      4698      4609      4698     4698      4698      4698      4698       4698      4698    4908        4048     4098      4608     0098
maize                                        0      2700      2700     2700      9000      9000      9000      9000     9000      9         9000      91000      9         800  9000  QOO      9000    9000      9ooo      9000      9000
cassava                                 -57600    23400    23400    23400    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760    -5760
sweet potatoes                          -54000   -20800   -10800    -10800   -2160    -21600   -21600   -21600   -2i600   -21600   -21600   -22000   -21600   -21000   -21600         -21600)  -21600   -21000   -21600   -21600
vegetables                              -23400    25200    25200    25200    77760    77760    77760    77702    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760    77760
onions                                  -19440    27360    27360    27360    06520    56520    06520    50520    !6520    50320    56520    56520    56520    56520    50520    56520    50020    56520   50620    56520
eotatoes                                 -3600    10800    10800    10800    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400    41400
fodders                                      0      5400      5400      5400    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17280    17230    17280
fireawood (3)                                0              o      00              66         9         9         9        70         9        9         9        76         9                  9        70         9         9         9
wood poles InG.)                             0         0         0         0      480         8         0         0       460        0         0         0       480         0         0        0       480         0         0         0
Prices CFA0F/kg)
sor00us                                     54        58        63        63       63        63        63       b6         04       04        04        64        64        64        64       64        64        64        04        04
Isepeas                                     79        79        79        79       79        70        79        79        79       70        79        -9        '9        79        79       79        79        79        79        79
oaize                                       53        56        61        61        61       61u        01       01         1       61        b1        61        01        61       01        01        01        61        01        01
cassava                                     52        52        52        52       52        52        52        52        52        52       52        52        52        52       52        52        52        52        52        52
sweet potatoes                              63        63        63        63       63        63        63        63        03       63        b3        03        63       o3        63        63        63        63        03       03
vegetables                                  50        50        50 S       0       50        50        50        50        50       50        50        50        50        50        50 S0              50        50        00        50
Onions                                      62        62        62       62        02        62        62        02       02        02        0         62        02        62       62        02        02        02        62       62
potatoes                                    04        64        64        64       04        04        b4        64        04       64        04        04        e4        t4       14        b4        04        04        64        64
fodders                                     10        10        10        10       10        10        10        10        10       10         9          , 10     10       10       10                  10 20     00                 10
fireetood t3)                            10op0    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000    10900          10000    109Q0    30000    iQ000O      W100      1000    10009    10000i   10000    10000    100OO    100I0          10000
wnod poles  ao.                            0001      5009       00       500      SO00 50            SO 500     0        SQ0      500       00        50v        500      00       500 s0o so0                   500       500       50 
Incresental Benefits ('000 CFF4)
sorg0e                                    -334       518       562      502      1424      2424      1424      144'     1447      1447      1447      1447      1447      1441     1447      1447      1447      1447      1447     1447
cotweas                                   -183       156       158       158      371       371        7'       Pl        37       771       7-1       31        377       -71  3727371                 371       371       371      371
*aize                                        0)      151       165      15       549       549       S40       54q      '49       54c       544       54         4   54    4       040       546       549       549      049       549
cassaia                                  -2995      1217      1217      1217     -300      -300      -300      -30?Q    -30       -3(j      -3b       -20       -70:     -30.    -'00        -300      -300      -300     -3bQ      -300
sweet potatces                           -3402      -0aO      -68Q     -680    -1061    -1301    -iS3A       -13Di    -1Et1    -1:09       -1        - $'1                                  -:131    -13b1    -13s1    -13t1   -1361



59                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 7-1
3 9 -                                                                                                      Page 5 of 6
vegetables                                -1170  ..0   b          60      Ui   fiO            ZUs9e     "as?6    3a0        3913  3se1                 -97 3           K39     7255      38S8      'e        379e      3te       -s883a 88
uvuona                                    -1205      16f6at     4a96      19o        504      3 TO       SOi      3: J      ;.1       3 4:      3S 4       .J4      3 i4      35.4      35p4      357        3504      3504       3504     35p4
potatoes                                   -230       691       691        091      26S1 P    50                 :5v 2:Sv  7:5$      2: 0       -ci      .:5           k     :f50         Q 2655 .5 2654                        2ss0      2650
fodders                                        0        54         '        54       173       173       17D        7        ! !       i73       1V3        !73       17        773       173       173       173       173       173       173
firewood (.3)                                  0         0         0         t       660        90        9 j                To         ;         9                   C1         4 91'v  4f"                  7b$i       90        70        go
wood poles (no.)                                         0         0         0       24          0         0         0       24t         i         0                 24                0              0       24f         0         9
Total                                      -9521      5065       5123      !123    1179Q    10999       10999    l11i.l      i92!    1211       :;021     11i1    11921 !     1:1        111     1191:    11-21    11011    !1011    1!011
9. COSTS
IITH PROJECT COSTS ('000 CFAFi
Ioveitaen7
oel.s !12)                                 3709
pumps (121                                 2442                                    2442                                     2442                                    2442                                    2442
tetal irrigation basins (84)               1848                                                                                                 1848
PYC Pipes f3600m1                          7128                                                                                                 4128
agricultural materials                     1260                                               1260                                              1260                                              12M0
plants                                      585
Total                                      16972          0         0         0     2442       1260         0                2442         0    10236          0      2442         0         0      12MO      2442         0         0         0
Operating Costs
*aintenance of works                          0       492       492       492       492       492        492       492       492       492       492       492       492       492       492       492       492     . 492       492       492
ipfiffE!Jting coots                            0     3330      3330      3330      3330      3330       3330      333.      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330      3330
urea ouantities [kg)                         0      1890      1890      1890      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773      1773       1773     1773       1773      1773
prices (CFAF/kg(                                 92       104       116       117       117?     1         119       119       122       !25       izo       132       134       134       134       134       134       134       134
value                                           174       197      219        207       207       209       211       211       21b       M2        227       234       238       238       238       238       238       238       238
TSP Quantities (kg)                          0       632       632       632      1005      1005      1005      1009 005            1QOS 1005           1005      1005       1005      1005      1005      1001      1003      1005      1005
Prices (CFAF(kg(                                  90        82        84        96        87        8e        89        91        91        92        92        93        93        93        93        93        93        93        93
value                                             51        52        53        D6        87        88        8;        91        91        92        52        93        93        93        93        93        93        93        93
NPK quantities (6g)                          0      7434      7434      7434      7596      7596      7596        7596    7590      7596      '596      759b      7596       7596      7596     759b      7596       7596     7596       7596
Prices (CFAF/kg)                                  76        82        87        88        89        89        90        91        92        94        95        97        98        9&        98        98        98        98        l8
value                                            565       610       b47       668       676       676       6B4       b91       699       714       722       737       744       744       744       744       744       744       744
total fertilizers                                    789       858       919       9i2       971       974       e84       994      1007      1028      1041      1064      1075      1075      1075      1075      1075      1075      1075
seeds                                                 902       902       902      1349      1349      134?      1349      1349      1349      1349      1349       1349      1345      1349      1349     1349       1349      1349      1349
sesticides                                            524       524       524       540       540        540       540       540       540      540         4';      540       540       540       540       540       540       540       540
Total Joerating Costs                                 6037      6106      6167      6673      6682      6685      60a5      nIOS      $71S      6739      6752      6775      6786      6786       6786     6786      6786       6786      j786
Labor (eandays)
#ell construction                          1320
cultivation                                          4147      4147      4147      4669      4669      46e9    466o        4609      4664      4169      4669      46t9      4669      4669      4669      4669    4U9          4669      4669
eater lifting                                         294       294       294       330       330        *30       330       330       33.      33         330      .30        33)       330       330      330       330        330       330
esater distribution                                 17658    17658    17t58    19818    19S81         19818    1%l19      19818    19C18    19818    19081        19848   1110    19018    19816    19318    19818    19818    19818
tree plant. saint. & cutting                206         3         3         3       902       102       102       toz        0        12  1     1Q                  9t22       Q 02     102        192      7u2       102        102      102
total                                      1526    22102    22102    22102    25719    24919    24919    24019    :.?19    24019    24919    2a919   2-71q    24915    24919    24919    25719    .4919    24919    24919
Value of Labor tat CFAF300/Iandayl           458      6631      '631      5s31      771         47?      ;47Mt      475     771e      767       74t 74?6   b4i6      '.71       4?o     '4Th       '47t     7716      741o      7476       7-76
TOTAL COST$ WITH PROJECT                   17430    12660    12737    12798   1631    15418    14160    14171    let2e              14193    24' 1      14226    17433    14Q2    142C2    15522    16944   1i26.    142t2    1422



Annex 7-]
W NITHOUT PRO8ECT COSTS ('000 tFAF)                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page  6 of  6
c     Inaestaent
traditional vells                          288       288       200       288       288       288      288       288       288       288       2        28 288    28         S 288    288       288       288       288      288       286
calebas'c & cords                          144       144       144       144       144       144      144       144       144       144       144       144      144       144       144       144       ;44       144      144       i44
agricultural materials                     144       144       144       144       144       144      144       144       144       144       144       144      144       144       144       144       144      144       144       144
total                                      576       576       576       576       576       576      576       576       576       576       57b       57t      576       576       576       5'6       576       576      !76       576
Operating Costs
saintenance of works                        3b        36        36        36        36        36       36        36        36        3b        3b       36        36        36        36        36        36       36        36        36
seeds                                       90        90        90        90        90        90       90        90        90        90        90        90       90        90        g0        90        90       90        90        90
fertilizers                                100       100       180       ISO       180      180       i80       180       180       l8O      110       180       10        180       I8O       180      ISO       18E       1o0       180
total                                      301       306       306       306      308       306       306       306       306       306      306       30b       306       306       306       306      306       306       306       306
Labor lmandays)
veil construction                          504       504       504       504       504       504      504       504       504       504       504      504       504       504       504       504      504       504       504       504
cultivation                               3503      3503      3503      3503     3503      3503      3503      3503      3503      3503     3503      3503      3503      3503      3503     3503      3503      3503      3503      3503
water lifting                            14850    14850    14050    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14S5O    14850    14SSP    14850    14850    14850    14850
water distribution                       14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    14850    1480    14850    14850    14850
total                                    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707    53707    33707    33707    33?07    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707    33707
Value of Labor (at CFAF300jeanday)        10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    101122   10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    10112    IO1i2
TOTAL COSTS  8ITHOUT PROJECT              10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994              0994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994    10994
INCREMENTAL COSTS                          6436      1674      1742      1804     5837      4424      3166      3177      5868     3199    13457       3234      5939      3268     3268      4528      5950      3268      3268     3268
NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                 -15957      3391      3380      3319      5962     6565      7822      7835      8053      7812    -2445      7778      5982      7743      7743     6483      5971      7743      7743      7743
a! Typical periseter of 18 ha, one well per 1.5 ha (12 wells per periseter) equipped with a portable pUmp. 36 beneficiaries per perimeter.
guess                    0.3
IRR
0.296081



_____________h___________________________________________    IBRD 20646
N I G E R                               _     _ ~ 1>  s              
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT                                                                                                                I    ,-.  --.
PROJET DE PETITES OPERA TIONS                        i                                         AdiAt                                    A ID.''
DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL                                                                                                   A                 .i
PROJECT AREA                                       I                                                                                                                                      i
ZONE DU PROJET
Projeo Aroon Year, 1.S5     Dl,trkt CopiRolb             i                 *'\7                                                                  
Zooo dovI  Md,h, A   1.15   CIaf.Io d'Arrodendort/   J                                                                     ,',
Proliot Area, Year. 3 5  S7  Deporlmerent CopRtob,                                                                        ,1\            t                                                               r/
Zoo, do Pro/f, Ara,oo 3.1   Chef.lle, do Opo,ref  *          \..                             \    \                    ~
_  dPa  Rood,          t    Notional Capitol     I .                                '                                '
Rovhs Ponroeto,bs CeRb tbah ., \ *. |pitol. N. .            i
E-d.h Rood,          __     D it,k RoBado,k                                                        AGADE2 IT
Rooltofr., Too,.           lhNt d'A,rodi-t                                                         ....... . A..
-   Trock,_                    Dodoneer pood      G! \                            h i
Plto                            Ilrt   |o Odd.                                                                           '                                                                    *                      o
---- pyo.               M."~~~~~loOad'Pra a,,d  orO/
11.0.         Yakm--od,                                                                                                                  /                        W . 
t   M     A    L    I ,4    r A H 0 /A A
k   -   fEy4  X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI    '     IGE 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
:to-                                                                                                          MALI~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NIGERA



IBRD 20647
N I G E R                       _._'.
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
PROJET DE PETITES OPERATIONS               I
DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL                    - 7                                                               A 1 D  F 1
COMPARISON OF ISOHYETS                |    i                                                                 I
COMPARAISON DES ISOHYETES               |
Iwe.    ^    ;W4tt85    0 1... Copttol.    j                                                                       a
700-  lQhy WI MO14M1i., 968.7985    OlU.d,,i.w 
behrcs h  Ul 7 19511982  Dcpc.- to Cltw | ,
MI'1951 '            I1982  C*51 d. e   ,wo..
* i.A / IC=
wl;t.f Bdt BO iorlt  .hGA0Z.
M 71. ,. d. see
\                            2        0        0             X                      j"                                i                         /'-~~20
t B U F K I N ^^~~~~~~oporiw BoN I onR IAdo ds0EE aX 
A 7 
* *   BILCAISTORS E N IN                                                       wR_
PASO                                                                               IsLES        150      I?   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2irnA/~~~~~~~~~0
Uo.dotO6.*#iLI6   w,dO.OO
'00~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w.oO~ l                                                    ...too~o4 
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.mpfd0.V7B..0.~7,ooo6..60 
v ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-                                   fo sw7awo.ow000 



