Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18932
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1890-NIR)
February 10, 1999
Rural Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
EXCHANGE RATE
1988 US $1 = CFAF 298
1990 US $1 = CFAF 272
1992 US $1 = CFAF 265
1994 US $1 = CFAF 555
1996 US $1 = CFAF 512
1998 US $1 = CFAF 550
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD        Administrative and Financial Director
CRA        Capital Replacement Accounts
DDRM       Directorate for regional development and micro-projects
ERR        Effective Rate of Return
GON        Govermment of Niger
IDA        International Development Association
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
PIT        Project Implementation Team
PMU        Project Management Unit
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PTA        Principal Technical Adviser
SRO        Small Rural Operations Project
Vice President:             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:           Theodore 0. Ahlers
Sector Manager:             Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:           Sidi Jammeh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
(Cr. 1890-NIR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ................................................  i
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment ............................................... 1
Introduction ..1
A. Project Objectives .................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ................................................                      2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................           ................... 5
D. Project Sustainability ................................................ 7
E. Bank Performance.                                                                               9
F. Borrower Performance ................................................                          10
G. Summary of Findings: Key Lessons Learned, Future Operations .......1.............. I 
PART II. Statistical Tables ................................................                      13
Table 1. Evaluation Summary .13
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3. Project Timetable .15
Table 4. Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .16
Table 6. Studies Included Under the Project.                                                      19
Table 7a. Project Costs ............................................... 23
Table 7b. Project Financing ................................................                      24
Table 8a. Economic Outcome and Assumptions ............................................. 25
Table 8b.  Summary of Annual Farm Budgets ............................................... 26
Table 9.   Status of Legal Covenants .......................             ........................ 27
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................... ..... 29
Table 11. Bank Resources: Mission Preparation/Supervision .............              ................ 30
APPENDIX
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report ..........              .............. 32
MAP: IBRD 20647
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in7ai
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
(Cr. 1890-NIR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small Rural
Operations Project in Niger for which Credit 1890-NIR in the amount of SDR 7.1
million (US$ 9.3 million equivalent) was approved on September 14, 1988. The project
was co-financed with a Grant from the Swiss Development Corporation in the amount of
Swiss Francs 12.5 million (US$7.8 million equivalent, and became effective on
December 14, 1988.
After two extensions, the Credit was closed on June 30, 1998. The Swiss Grant
also extended twice, will close on April 30, 1999. The last disbursement on the IDA
Credit was made on September 24, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Mahaman Salifou, Project Officer, at the Resident
Mission in Niamey, with quality assurance support from Sidi Jammeh (TTL, AFTR2). It
was reviewed by Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Sector Manager, AFTR2, Florent Agueh, Sector
Manager, AFTS2, Daniel Sellen, Sector Economist, AFTR2, and Bertrand de Chazal,
Financial Analyst, AFTS2 and Theodore Ahlers, Director, Country Department 13.
Preparation of the ICR included a joint Government/Bank mission that took place from
October 12-23, 1998. This mission consisted of Mahaman Salifou (Mission Leader);
Soulemane  Fofana  (Operations  Analyst,  AFTR2),  Stanislaw   Manikowsi
(Consultant/M&E specialist, AFTR2), Amadou Alassane (Program Officer/Extension
specialist, RM, Niamey) and Abdoul-Wahab Seyni (NGO Liaison Officer, RM, Niamey).
The ICR also drew extensively from project-related documentation provided by the
Borrower, including the consultant report on the poverty impact of the project. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of
the project, which is attached as Appendix to this report. Comments made by the
Government at the completion of the ICR mission have been incorporated into the report.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
(Cr. 1890-NIR)
Evaluation Summary
A.  Introduction
1.  The concept of a Small Rural Operations (SROs) Project arose from frustration
over the limited success of large-scale and "top-down" productivity projects.
Recognizing this, the Government of Niger (GON) adopted a new development approach
based on transfer of responsibility to beneficiaries, with emphasis on self-management of
development projects. By intensifying off-season crop production through widespread
use of existing simple, low-cost technologies, the project would generate rural income
and help mitigate the food shortages caused by recurrent droughts.
B.  Project Objectives
2.   The project was the first phase of a program of IDA support for SROs, which
would eventually be replicated on a national scale. It was designed as a capacity-
building operation to be undertaken in the framework of field-level developmental
activities. Its aim was to develop local capacity to prepare, appraise, execute, and
evaluate SROs with the active participation of the rural population, as well as to provide
effective extension once SROs became operational. Although the project was to finance
productive investments, an increase in production was not in itself the primary objective;
rather it was the means to support local initiatives by providing adequate technical advice
and clearly defined rules of financing. The specific SRO models would increase crop,
fruit and fuel wood production, enhance security of production, generate employment,
protect the environment and raise rural living standards, and included investments in
bottomland development, small-irrigated farming, fruit tree nurseries, soil conservation,
and water harvesting.
3.   Project objectives and approach were consistent with the Bank's rural sector
strategy to use policy reforms to, among other things, improve the efficiency of resource
use. The underlying rationale was that the supply response expected from the adjustment
program would depend on technically and economically viable solutions for long-term
development of the rural sector and on the institutional capability to assist farmers in
maximizing the long-term potential. In addition, IDA had a major role to play in helping
the Government to harmonize rules to be applied to the numerous externally-funded
SROs, since the other donors already active in SROs were reluctant to take the lead.



-ii-
C.  Implementation Experience and Results
Achievement of Objectives
4.   The project's most important objective was to build institutional capability in Niger
for making sound investment decisions for small-scale income-generating activities and
for managing investment funds at the local level. This objective has been achieved.
Through low-cost training and technical support from staff of the project implementation
team (PIT), this project has effectively developed a critical mass at the local level,
notably in the targeted nine arrondissements, and a methodology for project analysis. A
total of 500 technical services staff and managers directly benefited from this component.
In addition, the project has fostered a culture of team work, whereby local technical
service providers, which had hitherto operated separately, have learned to function as a
multidisciplinary team on operational tasks. Project beneficiaries were also provided with
training and technical support. A total of 1,500 small farmers benefited from the literacy
programs financed under this project which, in turn, contributed to enhanced farm
management skills, improved social intermediation and group formation. Another
demonstration of the development impact of the project's institutional program is the
establishment, using village funds, of 45 libraries and 25 printing presses.
5.   The project has successfully decentralized financial operations to the local level, by
establishing local accounts in all nine arrondissements. This has been possible by design
and the reporting and monitoring capacity of a well-trained and highly motivated project
implementation team.
6.   Another significant achievement of the project in institution-building was that it
fostered the development of a strong participatory culture. By focusing on the principle
that beneficiaries manifest, both in-cash and in-kind, their interest in participation and
instituting capital replacement accounts (CRAs) for renewal of medium-term assets, the
project helped create conditions for sustainability.
7.   Overall, the objectives of the investment component were achieved. Under the
investment program, this project contributed to the financing of 88 SROs in off-season
production of horticultural products and fruit trees, soil conservation, smallholder fish
production, stock-raising/animal husbandry, small-scale milk production, agro-
processing, and animal traction activities. Of the 5,151 farming units involved, 2,200
were owned and operated by women groups. The number of rural farmers benefiting
directly from these income-generating activities is between 31,000 and 36,000.
8.   A final assessment of the performance of the investment component revealed that
11 out of the 88 SROs financed by the project were abandoned -- a success rate of 87.5
per cent. The reasons for abandonment were unresolved land tenure disputes, inadequate
water in the aquifer, salinity, and group organizational and management problems.



-  . -
9.   The re-estimated ERR for the bottomland model came to 19 percent (versus 22
percent at appraisal) based on the appraisal assumptions that the opportunity cost of
family labor was FCFA 300 and the project's net investments are included in the cost
stream. Net incremental incomes per production unit at full development in year 10 were
FCFA 1,867,000 for bottomland operations, FCFA 809,000 for the soil regeneration
model, and FCFA 5,000,000 for the non-crop models, notably semi-intensive fisheries
and dairy production and marketing. This strong impact on the incomes of the farm
families arise from higher cropping intensities, higher value crops, and diversification
toward non-crop activities. The project's impact on food security and poverty reduction
has been positive in much of the project area, which is chronically food deficit and where
other donors appear to be noticeably absent. The impact on the welfare of women
beneficiaries, who dominate the project's horticultural marketing and agro-processing
activities, has also been assessed as significant.
10. Although SRO investments permitted beneficiaries to generate income, the
requirement to use part of this income as annual contribution to replace equipment or
reimburse costs of material financed by the project has not always been followed.
Compliance with the requirement to make annual contributions to the CRA for
replacement of medium-term assets averaged 89 per cent while the reimbursements into
the Development Fund for reinvestment was very low (20 per cent).
11. Part of the explanation for such poor reimbursement performance record was that
fmancial contributions were determined not by income earned, but more by awareness of
reciprocal obligations established under the participatory approach. Many farmers were
unsure or unconvinced that the funds belonged to them or would yield direct benefits to
them, and in a few instances, suspected that the Planning Department of the supervising
ministry, would misuse these resources.  Land tenure problems also arose when
proprietors became uncooperative after investments had been made. Another explanation
lies in the complexity of the CRAs, which made it difficult for beneficiaries to
understand the basis for calculating annual contributions. In order to overcome the
difficulties which hampered proper performance of these key financial instruments, it is
imperative to unambiguously clarify ownership of these funds, empower farmers to
manage the resources directly, provide a legal status for the funds, and simplify the rules
of the game for operating the accounts.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
12. The end of military rule and the opening-up of the political process unleashed a
prolonged period of political instability, frequent changes of Govemment, and social
unrest, especially between 1990 and 1995.  The resulting environment paralyzed
administrative processes, especially at the local level, and adversely affected the pace of
implementation, particularly from 1990 to 1993. On the other hand, the intense political
debate during the Conference Nationale aided the process of internalization of the
project's participatory approach by inducing a heightened awareness of democratic
values among the rural population.



-iv -
13. Although the Government faced recurrent public finance crises, it was nevertheless
able to maintain strong commitment to the objectives of this project by making an honest
effort to comply with its counterpart funding obligations. In fact, the Government used
counterpart funds to open Small Expenditure Funds at the district level to facilitate small-
scale financial transactions at the project sites.
14. In spite of the unstable political environment prevailing in the country during much
of the implementation period, the Government maintained the same team at the project
unit, and progressively empowered them to exercise autonomy in managing the project.
During the first two years, however, performance of the project unit was impeded by a
lack of effective coordination and collaboration between the Ministry of Planning (the
supervising ministry) and the line ministry (Agriculture).   This problem  was
compounded by the rigidities in an organizational culture that emphasized the status of
employees rather than execution of tasks.
15. Difficulties attributed to management of the public enterprise reform program also
adversely affected implementation performance during the first three years, with special
reference to the freezing of project funds following liquidation of the Nigerien
Development Bank and the National Savings Fund. Furthermore, social and political
pressure to offset the perceived negative impact of Structural Adjustment Program led to
unwise investment decisions and unsustainable expansion of SROs between years two
and three of the project. Many of these initial difficulties were overcome through
supportive joint project supervision which emphasized problem-solving over fault-
fmding. Another positive governmental action was the policy of tapping the pool of
United Nations Volunteers (UNV) to provide the project's technical assistance, which
proved to be cost-effective and more sustainable in comparison with reliance on the
relatively expensive external technical assistance pool.
D.   Project Sustainability
16.  The project has helped develop, through the experience of the decentralized
accounts, a reasonably robust capacity and a culture of accountability, transparency and
discipline in project accounting and financial management.
17. However, many achievements are relatively recent. Experience has shown
convincingly that longer-term commitments may be necessary for such operations to
yield sustainable returns. More importantly, farmers had some difficulty in complying
fully with requirements to make financial contributions to the CRA and to the
Development Fund. Since the sustainability of the investment component is doubtful, the
sustainability of the operation is uncertain at best.
18. In view of this, follow-up may be required to internalize and consolidate the
project's positive results. The final two years of the project were spent on activities
central to setting conditions for sustainability and for mainstreaming targeted poverty



interventions aimed at future work programs. The pilots on new SRO models are
designed to permit greater diversification of small-scale income generating activities,
upstream and downstream of production, while the tests on the technological innovations
may help promote widespread adoption of cost-effective water management techniques
and fertilizer applications.
19. The preliminary results from the above initiatives appear encouraging, but they are
not robust. Similarly, while there are some positive results on the capacity-building
front, especially in terms of the increase in the literacy rates of small farmers, these have
not been tested long enough to determine their durability. In order to ensure
sustainability, therefore, it may be useful to expand the scope of this project's activities
nationwide with a follow-on project.
E.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
20. This project was a pilot operation in capacity-building for poverty alleviation. It
has successfully developed an innovative approach, whereby local capacity is built and
deployed within a framework of targeted poverty- and hunger-reducing development
activities. While the project outcome is rated satisfactory, more time is needed to
consolidate achievements and to enhance conditions for sustainability. The project is thus
an important starting point in the sense that it has laid the groundwork for sustainability
of this approach, and a future operation may be warranted to replicate this positive
experience on a larger scale.
21. The key lessons leamed from the achievements of the project may be summarized
as follows:
*  Targeted poverty interventions of the self-employment type are an effective
instrument for transferring resources directly to the poor.
* Decentralized financial management at the local community level is central to
successful implementation of bottom-up approaches to development and for
promoting a culture of financial discipline in managing community funds.
*  Demonstrated ownership and empowerment are key to effective participation of
farmers in small rural development operations.
*  Training in farm management skills such as entrepreneurship and risk management
promotes financial sustainability, while simplified operating procedures, legal
protection and clarity with respect to benefits of the established financial mechanisms
are central to establishing ownership and credibility of such mechanisms.
* Access of farmers to project andlor extension staff is central to effective problem-
solving at the community level. The experience from this project shows that farmers



-vi-
with less access to or infrequent contact with technical staff perform less
satisfactorily in group relations and operationally.
* Continuity of project implementation staff and Bank staff ensures reliability and
better quality of services to the project.
. Although public administration can be an effective catalyst in fostering private
entrepreneurial development and participatory grassroots income-generating
initiatives, it is generally less effective than a private association of the beneficiaries.
* It is risky to make long-term investments in community-based agricultural enterprises
without resolving, through unambiguous and enforceable policy, tradition-bound land
tenure constraints and disputes;
* Operations designed to develop local capacity and a participatory culture require a
longer learning curve and therefore long-term commitment (i.e. 10-15 years) before
development impacts are evident.
Future Operations
22. The Borrower had originally viewed this operation as the first phase of a long-term
program to support its decentralization policy and has written to IDA requesting a Prcject
Preparation Facility (PPF) to prepare the second phase of the project. This would enable
the Borrower to respond to the rising demand for expansion of SROs nation-wide. A
follow-up operation would be expected to focus on strengthening and diversifying
targeted poverty programs of the self-employment-type. These would consist mainly of
the credit-based income generating activities (to generate medium-term income streams)
and/or public (infrastructure) works program (as a temporary measure for income
smoothing in the agricultural off-peak season). IDA's support would be influenced by
the experience from the on-going decentralization process, as well as from the
community-based approaches currently used in ongoing Bank-financed projects in Niger
and in the sub-region. Such a future operation should be undertaken within the
framework established in Niger's rural sector strategy, which includes promoting
effective approaches to support private entrepreneurs and farmers' associations to
diversify and foster community involvement in the construction and maintenance of rural
infrastructure.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
(Cr. 1890-NIR)
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction
1.   The concept of a Small Rural Operations (SROs) Project arose from frustration
over the limited success of large-scale and "top-down" productivity projects.
Recognizing this, the Government of Niger (GON) adopted a new development approach
based on transfer of responsibility to beneficiaries, with emphasis on self-management of
development projects. By intensifying off-season crop production through widespread
use of existing simple, low-cost technologies, the project would generate rural income
and help mitigate the food shortages caused by recurrent droughts.
2.   The Small Rural Operations Project was an important instrument of Bank support
to the institutional reform process, which emphasized decentralizing agricultural
initiatives to the local level. The project began at the same time (1983) as the adjustment
and reform programs. These programs aimed at improvement of rural infrastructure and
support to social and agricultural services. The scope of these reforms expanded after the
1994 devaluation of the CFAF to include trade and market liberalization, streamlining of
customs regulations and a reduction in export taxes. Decentralization gave local
administrations a greater say in natural resources management and community budget
allocations and established a legal framework for creating farmers' associations.
A.  Project Objectives
3.   The project was to be the first phase of a program of support for SROs, which
would eventually be replicated on a national scale. It was designed as a capacity-
building operation to be undertaken in the framework of field-level developmental
activities. Its aim was to develop a local capability to prepare, appraise, execute, and
evaluate SROs with active participation of the rural population, as well as to provide
effective extension once SROs become operational. The project would strengthen the
capabilities of field staff of the provincial and district technical services who would assist
farmers in the design, preparation and execution of SROs.
4.   The investments were made in bottomland development, small-irrigated farming,
fruit tree nurseries, soil conservation, and water harvesting. More than two-thirds of
investments to be financed in grant form under the project were consistent with four



-2 -
models of SROs which were pre-identified by staff of the Ministry of Planning. The
specific SROs models would increase crop, fruit and fuel wood production, enhance
security of production, generate employment, protect the environment and raise rural
living standards.
5.  An important design feature of this project was the requirement for beneficiaries to
show strong commitment to maintain investments made by the project in grant form, by
making up-front down payments in a capital replacement account (CRA) to be followed
by annual payments to replace medium-term assets such as motor pumps and animals. In
addition, beneficiaries would be required to reimburse costs of materials financed by the
project for the construction of wells. The reimbursement funds (to be placed in a
development fund) would be used for other investments to benefit those who did not
benefit from the grant investment. An exception to the reinvestment rule was made,
however, to self-standing erosion control works, soil recuperation, village nurseries and
other NRM-type activities. In these cases, physical contribution alone in the form of
unskilled labor and local construction materials would suffice. Seasonal or investment
credit was excluded from project design, given the small size of the subprojects, their
wide geographic dispersion and the difficulties and costs which could be involved in
supervising and recovering the credit.
B.  Achievement of Objectives
6.  Project objectives and approach were consistent with the Bank's rural sector
strategy to use policy reforms to, among other things, improve the efficiency of resource
use. The underlying rationale was that the supply response expected from the adjustment
program would depend on technically and economically viable solutions for long-term
development of the rural sector and on the institutional capability to assist farmers in
maximizing the long-term potential. In addition, IDA had a major role to play in helping
the Government to harmonize rules to be applied to the numerous externally-funded
SROs, since the other donors already active in SROs were reluctant to take the lead.
7.   The project's key objective of building institutional capability in Niger in the
design and implementation of SROs at the local level has been achieved. Through low-
cost training and technical support from staff of the project implementation team (PIT),
this project has effectively developed a critical mass at the local level, notably in the
targeted nine arrondissements (Boboye, Dosso, Dogondoutchi, Tillaberry, Say, Filingue,
Birni N'koni, Bouza and Madaoua), and a methodology for project analysis, including
identification, execution, monitoring and evaluation. A total of 500 technical services
staff/managers directly benefited from training under this component. The project also
contributed to enhanced operational performance and effectiveness of   field
implementing agencies by consistently providing logistical support--vehicles, office
equipment and supplies, fuel and operations and maintenance--to the participating
technical service departments within the nine arrondissements.



-3 -
8.  The project has also fostered a culture of team work, whereby local technical
services, which hitherto had operated separately with little coordination have now
learned to function as a multidisciplinary team on any given operational task. In
addition, the project has successfully decentralized financial operations at the local level,
by operating local accounts in all nine arrondissements. Niger is, perhaps, the only
country in the Africa Region which has been allowed to operate as many as nine
decentralized accounts. This has been possible through adequate design as well as
sufficient reporting and monitoring capacity of a well trained and highly motivated
project implementation team. The staff of the PIT have frequently been put at the
disposal of other Bank-financed projects in order to provide technical support for setting
up and operating accounting and financial management systems. Project beneficiaries
and local authorities now have the discipline and the basic skills to ensure proper
financial management of local accounts and this experience is increasingly being adopted
by other externally-financed SRO activities.
9.  Another significant achievement of the project's institution-building objectives has
been the fostering of a strong participatory culture. The key objective in this respect was
to develop a culture of partnership between the governmental actors on the one hand and
small farmers' groups and NGOs on the other. Project beneficiaries were provided with
training and technical support, which empowered them to take the driver's seat A total
of 1,500 small farmers have benefited from the various literacy programs financed under
this project, leading to high literacy rates and participation levels which, in turn,
contributed to enhanced farm management skills, improved social intermediation and
group cohesiveness. Another demonstration of the development impact of the project's
institutional program was the opening of 45 village libraries and the setting up of 25
village printing presses, financed by the villagers themselves.
10. Under the investment program, this project contributed to the financing of 88 SROs
in the project zone (i.e. the 9 arrondissements mentioned above), of which 40 were
investments in off-season production of horticultural products and fruit trees; 9 in soil
conservation and regeneration operations for cereals and vegetable farming; 2 in semi-
intensive smallholder fish production; 9 in stock-raising/animal husbandry; 2 in semi-
intensive small-scale milk production; 13 agro-processing operations; and 13 animal
traction activities. Overall, these SROs involved 5,151 farming units (with an average of
6-7 members in a typical production unit), of which 2,200 were owned and operated by
women's groups. Thus, the number of rural farmers benefiting directly from these
income-generating activities vary between 31,000 and 36,000.
11. The total number of SROs financed (88) was below the appraisal estimate of 96.
This is attributed to two factors. First, there was a freeze on new SROs investments early
in the fourth year of implementation to allow for sufficient capacity to be built in order to
properly manage the new investments, which were expanding (between year 2 and 3)
beyond projections, due to a political decision. With Bank support, the PIT imposed a
moratorium on new SRO investments, while focusing on building and expanding the
institutional capacity necessary for proper preparation and implementation of the



-4 -
programmed SRO sub-projects. The second reason, partly a result of the unplanned
expansion of new SRO investments, was the abandonment of about one-quarter of the 48
sub-projects which were active by December 1995 because of water limitation factors
(i.e., salinity, lack of adequate water from the installed infrastructure), unresolved land
tenure conflicts, and poor quality of soils. This discrepancy may, in turn, be attributed to
inadequate project preparation work to determine the technical feasibility of site-specific
operations. The moratorium on new SROs was lifted around the end of the fifth project
year, as the required capacity was then in place. Consequently, the rate of new
investments increased dramatically (33 out of the 88 SROs financed under the project
started as late as 1997).
12. A final assessment of the performance of the investment component, performed
during the ICR mission, revealed that 11 out of the 88 SROs financed by the project were
abandoned -- a success rate of 87.5 per cent for SROs on the ground. The reasons for
abandoning the non-performing SROs, were unresolved land tenure disputes (affecting 5
subprojects), inadequate water in the aquifer (4 subprojects), salinity (1 subproject) and
group organizational and management problems (1 subproject).
13. Although SRO investments permitted beneficiaries to generated income, the
requirement to use part of this income as annual contribution to replace equipment or
reimburse costs of material financed by the project has not always been followed.
Compliance with the requirement to make annual contributions to the CRA for
replacement of medium-term assets averaged 89 per cent while the reimbursements into
the Development Fund for reinvestment was very low (20 per cent).
14. Part of the explanation for such poor reimbursement performance record was that
fmancial contributions were determined not by income eamed, but more by awareness of
reciprocal obligations established under the participatory approach. Many farmers were
unsure or unconvinced that the funds would yield direct benefits to them, and in a few
instances, suspected that the Planning Department of the supervising ministry, would
misuse these resources. Land tenure problems also arose when proprietors became
uncooperative after investments had been made. Another explanation lies in the
complexity of the CRAs, which made it difficult for beneficiaries to understand the basis
for calculating annual contributions. In order to overcome the difficulties which
hampered proper performance of these key financial instruments, it is imperative to
unambiguously clarify ownership of these funds, empower farmers to manage the
resources directly, provide a legal status for the funds, and simplify the rules of the game
for operating the accounts.
15. The re-estimated ERR for the bottomland model came to 19 percent (versus 22
percent as at appraisal) based on the appraisal assumptions that the opportunity cost of
family labor was FCFA 300 per adult and the project's net investments are included in
the cost stream. Net incremental incomes at full development in yearlO came to FCFA
1,867,000 per production unit for the bottomland operations, FCFA 809,000 for the soil
regeneration model, and FCFA 5,001,000 for the non-crop models, notably semi-



- 5 -
intensive fisheries and dairy production and marketing. This strong impact on the
incomes of the farm families arises mainly from the higher cropping intensities, changes
in cropping patterns toward higher value crops, more intensive cultural practices, and
diversification toward non-crop activities. The project's impact on food security and
poverty reduction has been substantial in much of the project area, comprising Niger's
structurally food deficit and enclave zone--where other donors are noticeably absent.
The welfare of women beneficiaries, who dominate much of the horticultural marketing
and agro-processing activities financed by the project, was significantly enhanced.
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project
16. End of military rule and the opening-up of the political process unleashed a
prolonged period of political instability and social unrest, especially between 1990 and
1995. The environment of political uncertainty and frequent changes of Government
which had persisted until 1996, adversely affected the pace of implementation,
particularly from 1990 to 1993. This, in turn, exposed the project unit to political
interference and administrative pressures. The occasional outbreak of hostilities between
Touareg rebels and Government forces made much of the countryside unsafe. On the
other hand, the intense political debate over omissions and commissions of the past and
choices for the future during the Conference Nationale aided the process of internalizing
of the project's participatory approach by raising awareness of democratic values among
the rural population.
17. Although Government faced recurrent public finance crises, it was nevertheless
able to maintain strong commitment to the project objectives by complying with much of
its counterpart funding obligations. The Government used counterpart funds to open
Small Expenditure Funds at the District level to facilitate small-scale financial
transactions at the project sites. The exchange rate realignment of January 1994 had
mixed effects on the project. On the one hand, it improved the liquidity situation, which
made it possible to extend the implementation period beyond the expected closing date.
On the other hand, it induced a sharp decline in the internal rate of return of SRO
investments, and hence their profitability, in the short-run. This was due in part to the
failure to pass on the full effects of the devaluation to farmers and partly to the increase
in the prices of the imported inputs (motor pumps, petrol and phyto-sanitary products).
18. The Borrower's commitment to decentralization remained intact throughout the
implementation period.  However, staff of the field technical services were less
enthusiastic about empowerment of small farmers, especially during the project's first
two years. Effective leadership by the supervising Ministry of Planning was instrumental
in overcoming the initial resistance to the project's bottom-up approach at the community
level. In spite of the unstable political environment prevailing in the country during
much of the implementation period, the Government maintained the same team at the
project unit, and progressively empowered them to exercise autonomy in managing the
project. During the first two years, however, performance of the project unit was
impeded by a lack of effective coordination and collaboration between the supervising



-6 -
ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture. This problem was compounded by rigidities in
an organizational culture that emphasized the status of employees rather than execution
of tasks.
19. Difficulties attributed to management of the public enterprise reform program also
adversely affected implementation performance during the first three years, particularly
the freezing of project funds following liquidation of the Nigerien Development Bank
(BDRN) and the National Savings Fund. Furthermore, social and political pressure to
offset some of the perceived negative social impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
also led to unwise investment decisions and an unsustainable expansion of SROs between
the second and third years of the project. This led to the abandonment of several
unfeasible sub-projects which were hastily prepared and implemented for political
expediency. However, many of these initial difficulties were overcome through
supportive joint project supervision that emphasized problem-solving rather than fault-
finding. Another significant and positive governmental action was the policy of tapping
into the pool of United Nations Volunteers (UNV) to provide the project's technical
assistance support requirements. This approach proved to be very cost-effective and
more sustainable in comparison with reliance on the relatively expensive pool external
technical assistance. Local consultants have occasionally been used for the same
purpose.
20. In the original design, project management was entrusted to the Regional
Development Department of the Planning ministry, under the responsibility of the
department's Assistant Director, as the Coordinator. Realizing that this arrangement was
hindering proper implementation, the Borrower transferred implementation
responsibilities to a separate unit--the PMU--which was given relative operational
autonomy to be free from an overbearing bureaucracy. The Coordinator of this separate
entity reported to the Planning Ministry at monthly meetings. This initiative of the
Government was a major factor in the satisfactory performance of the project team.
Another factor was with the Government's decision to draw from the United Nations
Volunteers Program for the project's technical assistance support requirements, to be
supplemented by local expertise, when needed. This approach proved to be very cost-
effective and more sustainable in comparison with reliance on the conventional approach
to technical assistance.
21. Government properly documented the implementation experience of this project
and has proactively encouraged other donors and NGOs to adopt some of these as best
practice, particularly the lessons on decentralized financial management, transparency
and the principles of participation and empowerment of rural stakeholders. Through
such effort, the rules of the game for implementing SROs have become more uniform
and evident than they were before this project.



-7 -
D.  Project Sustainability
22. This project was a pilot operation in developing local-level capacity and
participatory culture for sustainable targeted poverty interventions of the self-
employment-type. It was not until after the eighth year of implementation that the full
development impact became evident to both the beneficiaries and the Government. The
learning period was unexpectedly long, but was time well spent to test and determine the
replicability of this approach to development on a national scale. The project has been
able to develop a critical mass of trained field staff, without whom it would be difficult
to ensure sustainability. The trained technical staff continue to be fully deployed in the
administration, while the farmers who benefited from the numeracy and literacy
programs continue to use their newly-acquired skills and knowledge to manage and
diversify their operations in the post-project period. Moreover, by exercising greater
flexibility in opening up the project's collectivist approach to include individual
entrepreneurship, it was possible to attract small-scale farmers in project activities,
leading to greater diversity in SROs investments and substantial improvements in level of
financial participation of beneficiaries (i.e. through the CRAs and the development fund
for reinvestments). This adjustment in project design laid important groundwork for
sustainability. In addition, the transfer of know-how in financial management made it
possible to decentralize financial and procurement operations at the local level (through
the nine local accounts). The project has helped develop a reasonably robust capacity
and a culture of accountability, transparency and discipline in project accounting and
fimancial management that would contribute to sustainability.
23. Many of the achievements mentioned above have been realized fairly recently, and
after a long learning period. The experience has shown that longer-term commitments
may be necessary for these kinds of operations to begin to reap benefits in terms of
sustainable development impact. More importantly, however, farmers had difficulty in
complying with the requirements to make financial contributions to the CRA and to the
Development Fund. These mechanisms were a key measure of sustainability. Thus,
overall sustainability of the investment program is doubtful. This, in turn, makes the
sustainability of this operation uncertain, at best.
24. Consequently, systematic follow-up may be required in order to internalize and
consolidate the project's positive results. The final two years into the project's life were
spent on activities that were central to setting the right conditions for sustainability and
for mainstreaming targeted poverty interventions in future work programs for Niger.
These include pilots on participatory labor-intensive rural infrastructure public works
programs, data collection and analysis on new SRO models on artisan fisheries
production, smallholder semi-intensive milk production, agro-processing and marketing
as well as evaluation of tests on water management techniques and composting. The
pilots on new SRO models are designed to permit greater diversification of small-scale
income generating activities, upstream and downstream of production, while the tests on
the technological innovations may hold the key to a transformation of Nigerien



-8-
agriculture, through widespread adoption of cost-effective water management techniques
and fertilizer applications.
25. The preliminary results from the above initiatives appear encouraging, but they are
not robust. Similarly, while the positive results on the capacity-building front are
impressive, especially in terms of the increase in the literacy rates of small farners, these
have not been tested long enough to determine their durability. In order to ensure
sustainability, therefore, it would be necessary to expand the scope of this project's
activities nationwide, through a follow-up project.
Actual Costs, Financing Plan, and Implementation Timetable
26. Actual project costs are estimated at US$17.5 million compared to an appraisal
estimate of US$ 18 million. The actual foreign exchange costs came to US$ 3.4 million
compared to US$ 7.9 million at appraisal, while actual local costs were US$ 14.1 million
in comparison with an appraisal estimate of US$ 10.1 million.
27. There was a cost overrun of US$ 2.35 million on the support to technical services
component and of US$ 3.5 million on support to the project management unit component
(details in Table 7-A). These cost overruns may be attributed to IDA's decision (through
an amendment of the DCA on June 15, 1989) to fund the acquisition of vehicles and
financing of operating expenditures for the pilots on the T&V extension system and
preparation of the Agricultural Services Project. On the other hand, there was a savings
of US$ 2.16 million on the SROs investments program component, and US$ 1.42 million
on the studies component. The savings on the SROs investment program may be
attributed to a joint decision by the Borrower and IDA to focus on consolidation of
achievements and ongoing investments rather than making new SROs investments during
the last three years of the original project life, while the savings on the studies component
was due to the resort to local competencies to provide the necessary technical assistance
support during implementation.
Financing
28. Government's contributions to project costs came to the equivalent of US$ 0.5
million versus an appraisal estimate of US$ 0.9 million. The fact that the Government's
actual contributions came to the above amount during a period of recurrent public
finance crises and severe liquidity problems is testimony to their commitment to this
project. Actual IDA financing was US$ 9.5 million compared to an appraisal estimate of
US$ 9.3 million and the Swiss co-financier's actual financing came to US$ 7.5 million
versus US$ 7.8 million initially planned. The increase in the contribution of IDA funds is
due to the variation of the US dollar against the SDR. However the Swiss grant will
continue disbursing until its current closing date of April 30, 1999.



- 9-
Implementation Timetable
29.  The preparation phase was unusually long (1981-88) because of difficulties in
deciding on an appropriate institutional framework and difficulties in changing
Government's perception that large-scale projects were more effective than small-scale
projects. However, project start-up proceeded satisfactorily. Project execution occurred
in two distinct phases. The first went from 1988 to 1993 and represented the intensive
investment phase. The second, from 1994 to 1998, corresponded to the investment
consolidation phase.
30. It was observed, during the project mid-term review in 1992, that the number of
SROs sub-projects on the ground was not keeping pace with implementation capacity
built by the project at the local level. It was therefore recommended that the phasing of
new investments should be slowed down. Consequently, the total number of SROs
financed by year five was only forty nine compared to the appraisal estimate of ninety six
for the same period. The strategy was to first ensure that sufficient capacity was built
before further expansion in SROs investments. The lifting of the moratorium a year
before the initial closing date combined with the project's two-year extension made it
possible to carry out thirty nine additional SROs, bringing the total to 92 percent of the
number of SROs originally planned. Adequate implementation capacity was the key to
this phenomenal expansion. Project implementation lasted about ten years, which appear
to be an unusually long time. However, this project was unusual; it was anchored on
strong participatory principles and local capacity-building, which require a long learning
curve and longer-term commitment. The last disbursement took place on September 24,
1998, and an undisbursed balance of US$ 282,000 (i.e., 97.2 percent disbursed) would be
cancelled. The Swiss Grant closes on April 30, 1999.
E.  Bank Performance
31. IDA's overall performance for identification and preparation was unsatisfactory
because of inadequate site-specific technical feasibility work on certain sub-project sites.
This problem was corrected partly during supervision, leading to more rigorous Bank
review of the Borrower's sub-project appraisal documents and the abandoning of the
project sites which were affected by poor feasibility work. With regards to supervision,
IDA performed satisfactorily, as did the Swiss co-financier. Overall, there was close
consultation on and coordination of supervision efforts which, in turn, contributed to
supervision performance and to the achievement of the project's development objectives.
32. In the first half of the eighties, IDA's lending program consisted of an average of
two projects per year. The program was small largely because of difficulties in project
preparation. Thus, this project grew out of a strong need to build capacity in project
preparation. Drawing lessons from the ongoing projects in rainfed and irrigated
agriculture, which had proved to be inadequate to increase productivity and were heavy
top-down, IDA worked jointly with Government to test pilots based on grassroots
initiatives and village-based extension systems; and extensively discussed, with the



- 10-
client, the bottom-up features of the institutional design. This intensive preparation work
led to the development of prototype farm models which were used for the economic
analysis and facilitated agreement on the participatory approach of the project. IDA saw
the project as an instrument to strengthen the capability and credibility of technical staff
of the public administration, which would lay a basis of improving agricultural support
services and for associating rural farmers in community development efforts. IDA
invested a substantial time (1981-88) and resources in the project preparation work to
ensure ownership by the Borrower and appropriate institutional design.
33. With regard to supervision, perhaps IDA's biggest contribution has to be in how
supervision missions, which were very intensive during the first six years of the project
(i.e. at least three supervision missions/year), were used to transfer know-how and build
confidence and trust between the Task Manager and the project implementation team.
This approach helped motivate the local team and helped to develop a autonomy and
capacity at country level to implement and monitor this project with only minimal
supervision from IDA and the Swiss co-financiers. Another important factor is the
continuity in leadership of the Bank team--the same Task Manager from Effectiveness to
Completion. Over time, the Bank transferred much of the supervision tasks to the field
mission, which also improved technical quality control.
34. Swiss Cooperation also participated on a regular basis in supervision missions,
especially during the 1989-1995 period, when it had adequate operational staff in
Niamey. The Swiss donor contributed to the achievement of project objectives by
suggesting, inter alia, (a) that savings and loan associations be created; (b) that tertiary
accounts, managed by associations, be opened; and (c) that technical managers and
beneficiaries perform, be assisted to provide their own evaluation of the operations (the
concept of autopromotion). These contributions are gradually being internalized.
F.  Borrower Performance
35. The Borrower's performance in both identification and preparation was
unsatisfactory primarily because of the politically motivated decisions made for the
unplanned expansion of new SRO investments and, hence, a shared responsibility with
IDA for the inadequate technical pre-feasibility work. In general, the Borrower's
performance during implementation was, on the whole, satisfactory. They complied with
the project's effectiveness conditions on time. The Borrower also aided implementation
by protecting the autonomy of the project execution unit and maintaining the key
personnel of the PMU in place throughout project life, while at the same time ensuring
the relative stability of the Planning Ministry's arrondissement-level staff. When abuses
in managing  decentralized  accounts were reported during  the first year of
implementation, the Government took immediate steps to sanction the field agents who
were involved and to encourage a culture of discipline in managing public funds at the
local level.



- 11 -
36. Faced with a combination of recurrent political instability and financial crises, the
Government maintained its commitment to the project throughout much of the
implementation period. It paid most of its counterpart contributions and protected the
project team from mounting political and administrative interference. In addition, the
Government made substantial savings on the institution-building component by drawing
from the United Nations Volunteer Program and local consultants for the project' s
technical assistance requirements.
G. Summary of Findings: Key Lessons Learned, Future Operations
37. This project represents a flagship operation in capacity building for poverty
alleviation.  It has successfully developed an innovative approach, whereby local
capacity is built and deployed simultaneously in the framework of targeted poverty-and
hunger-reduction development activities on the ground. Although the project outcome is
rated satisfactory, more time may be needed to consolidate the achievements and to
enhance the conditions for sustainability. However, the project is an important starting
point in the sense that it has laid the groundwork for sustainability of this development
approach; and a follow-on operation may be warranted in order to replicate this positive
experience on a larger scale.
38. The key lessons to be learned from this project are as follows:
*  Targeted poverty interventions of the self-employment type are an effective
instrument for transferring resources directly to the poor.
* Decentralized financial management at the local community level is central to
successful implementation of bottom-up approaches to development and for
promoting a culture of financial discipline in managing community funds.
*  Demonstrated ownership and empowerment are key to effective participation of
farmers in small rural development operations.
*  Training in farm management skills such as entrepreneurship and risk management
promotes financial sustainability, while simplified operating procedures, legal
protection and clarity with respect to benefits of the established financial mechanisms
are central to establishing ownership and credibility of such mechanisms.
*  Access of farmers to project and/or extension staff is central to effective problem-
solving at the community level. The experience from this project shows that farmers
with less access to or infrequent contact with technical staff perform less
satisfactorily in group relations and operationally.
* Continuity of project implementation staff and Bank staff ensures reliability and
better quality of services to the project.



- 12 -
* Although public administration can be an effective catalyst in fostering private
entrepreneurial development and participatory grassroots income-generating
initiatives, it is generally less effective than a private association of the beneficiaries.
* It is risky to make long-term investments in community-based agricultural enterprises
without resolving, through unambiguous and enforceable policy, tradition-bound land
tenure constraints and disputes;  X
* Operations designed to develop local capacity and a participatory culture require a
longer learning curve and therefore long-term commitment (i.e. 10-15 years) before
development impacts are evident.
Future Operations
39. The Borrower had originally viewed this operation as the first phase of a long-term
program to support its decentralization policy. It has written to IDA (letter from Minister
of Planning dated November 25, 1998) requesting a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to
prepare the second phase of the project which would permit continued implementation of
its decentralization program as well as demand-driven expansion of SROs nation-wide.
The follow-up operation is intended to consolidate and deepen the achievements of the
first phase in a more cost-effective manner and to replicate the lessons learned on a
national scale, especially in light of the rising demand for SROs from the project zone
and from the arrondissements that have not been covered under this project. It would
focus on strengthening and diversifying targeted poverty programs of the self-
employment-type. These would consist mainly of the credit-based income generating
activities (to generate medium-term income streams) and/or public works programs (as a
temporary measure for income-smoothing during the agricultural off-peak season).
40.   The experience gained in implementing targeted poverty interventions combined
with the critical mass already built under the first phase operation represent an important
groundwork that would permit the development of a multi-donor community-based rural
development program which IDA could support. IDA's support would be informed by
the experience from the on-going decentralization process, as well as from the
community-based approaches currently used in ongoing Bank-financed projects in Niger
and in the sub-region (Burkina Faso, Guinea, Senegal). Such a future operation should
be undertaken within the framework established in Niger's rural sector strategy, which,
among other objectives, include promoting effective approaches to support private
entrepreneurs and farmers' cooperatives/associations to diversify on-farm and off-farm
income-generating enterprises, and fostering community involvement in the construction
and maintenance of rural infrastructure.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
(Cr. 1890-NIR)
PART II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Evaluation Summary
A. Achievements of Objectives  Substantial   Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Rural Sector Policies          0             C1            0               0
Financial Objectives           0             O             O               0
Institutional Development      0             Cl            O               O
Physical Objectives            O             0             El             E1
Poverty Reduction              0             O             Ol              Ol
Gender Issues                  0             0             O               11
Farmers Organisation           E             0             O               O
Environmental Objectives       O             0             E               O
Public Sector Management       O             0             O               
Private Sector Development     O             0             E               E
Reduction in Rural Exodus      E             0             E               o
B. Project Sustainable          Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain
E                     E                      0
Highly
C. Bank Performance              Satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                E                    E                      0
Preparation Assistance        O                     0                     El
Appraisal                     E                     0                     El
Supervision                   El                   0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                   El                    El                    0
Implementation                El                    0
Covenant Compliance           E                     El
Highly
E. Evaluation of                 Satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
Achievements
El                   0                      El



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose                  Year of Approval   Status
Project Dosso    The project's aim was to increase agricultural    December 1979   Completed
(Cr.0967-NIR)    production and reinforce capacity building at a
local level. The project Completion report
concluded that the impact of Dosso project on
production increase was marginal and that the
adoption of insufficiently proven technical
messages by farmers was limited. The project
closed in June 1985 with only 16% of funds
disbursed out of the total credit of US$20
million
Project Maradi II  The project objectives were: (a) encourage   1980       Completed
(Cr. 1026-NIR)   farmer's initiative and participation and to make
them more responsible for development
activities; (b) develop village-based extension
systems; and (c) gradually reduce technical
assistance and reduce operating costs. The
project was confronted with implementation
problems and failed to achieve the expected
increase in crop production and a real
empowerment of farmers in carrying out
development activities.
National         The goal of this project was to strengthen  January 1990    On Going
Agricultural     national planning and implementation capacity
Research        in agricultural research. In particular, the
(Cr.2122-NIR)    project emphasizes the development of research
capacity in order to respond to the needs and
constraints of agriculture in Niger.
Private Irrigation   The project tests and evaluates simple, low-cost  1995  On Going
Promotion        small-scale irrigation technologies and builds
(Cr.2707-NIR)    local capacity for private delivery of demand-
driven services to entrepreneurs in irrigation
sub-sector.
Natural Resources  The project is intended to slow down and     1995        On Going
Management Projec contain environmental deterioration, and
(Cr.2796-NIR)    eventually improve environmental conditions.
It is the first phase of a long-term program
aimed at improving environmentally sustainable
agricultural productivity in Niger.



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Actual date, or Latest Estimate
Stage in the Project Cycle     Date Planned
Identification (Executive Project  August 1980      August 1980
Sunnnary)
Preparation                                         1986
Appraisal                      April 1987           April 1987
Negotiations                   November 1987        November 1987
Development Policy Letter                .
Board Presentation             January 1988         March 29, 1988
Signing                                 -           September 14, 1988
Effectiveness                  July 28, 1988        December 14, 1988
Mid-tenn Review                December 31, 1990    April 6 - 30, 1992
Project Completion             December 31, 1995
Closure of IDA Credit          June 30, 1996        June 30, 1998
Closure of Swiss Credit        June 30, 1996        April 30, 1999
Table 4: Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY   FY   FY   FY   FY   FY   FY   FY   FY   FY   FY   FY
88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Appraisal Estimate    0   2.5  3.4  4.6  6.2  7.7  8.8  9.3    -    -
Actual              0    1.4  2.4  4.2  6.0  7.1  7.3  7.7  8.0  8.4  9.4  9.5
Actual amount as %    0    56   72   91   97   92   83   83   86   90   101  102
of Estimate
Date of Final                               November 18, 1998
Disbursement



-16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Included
Components                         in appraisal        Achieved
report
I. SUPPORT TO TECHNICAL SERVICES IN THE FIELD
1. Project preparation
1.1 Purchase of one 4 x 4 vehicle in each departement and  21          29
arrondissement, includcng replacements (number otvelhcles
purchased)
1.2 Vehicle operating costs (in '000 CFAF)             249,750         546,898
1.3 Services of one development volunteer in each departement, 104,204  324,550
for a total of three (3) volunteers (in '000 CFAF)
1.4 Additional office equipment (in '000 CFAF)
=________________________________ _ X20,066     159,474
2. Extension services
2.1 Purchase of mobylettes for 18 contractual extension agents   129,946  48,393
and 54 agricultural district heads (chefs de districts agricoles)
(in '000 CFAF)
2,2 OpQratg costs of moby10t  (in '000 CFAF)            1583576         0
2.3 Training of contract extension agents to improve their  52,428     Activities 2.3, 2.4 and
technical and communication skills (in '000 CFAF)                   2.5 were financed
97,617        throughithe
2.4 Regular supervision of extension agents by agriculturl             Agricultural Services
personnel of arrondissements and departements in                    Project under the
accordance with principles of 'training and visit' system           terms of a 1989
('000 CFAF)                                                         agreement between the
two World Bank
projects for a total of
2.5  Each agricultural district head (CDA) provides extension          465 million CFAF.
advice to about three villages (recommended number of villages)
* See changes at 1.2.5, Table 5 II.
3. Training of Personnel
3.1 Services of short-tenn consultants to complete the  87 994
FORPROSA training program for arrondissement-level



- 17-
personnel (in '000 CFAF)
3.2 In-service skills upgrading (in '000 CFAF)            32,400         39,526
4. Training of extension agents
Organize and finance training geared to improving technical and  159,405  Training financed and
communications skills of contract extension agents, agricultural         implemented through
district heads (CDAs), agricultural arrondissement heads, and            the National Extension
managers at the dfrartement level.                                        Services.
5. Training of beneficiaries
5.1 Services rendered under the CLUSA project in the area of  37,440      59 217
functional literacy and management training for groups of
beneficiaries.
III. STRENGTHENING MANAGERIAL STRUCTURES
WITHIN DDRM
1. Creation of a DDRM office within MP                   1 coordinator   1 coordinator
1 project       1 specialist
2. Services of Nigerien accountants at the departement level   management
analyst         1 manager
3. Services of an accounting assistant responsible for   1 manager        1 financial director
bookkeeping within each arrondissement                1 financial     3 drivers
director        2 secretaries
4. Provision of 4 x 4 vehicles                           3 drivers       2 accountants
1 secretary
5. Provision of official business vehicles               2 accountants    3 accountants
6.   Provision of office equipment for the Niamey office and   3 accountants
data processing services to monitor and perform ex-post                  9 accounting assistants
evaluation of SROs currently underway at DDRM (in '000   9 accounting
CFAF)                                                    assistants      4 vehicles
4 vehicles      7 vehicles
4 vehicles      110 717
7,978
IV. EQUIPPING OF LOWLANDS AND THEIR
TRANSFORMATION INTO PERIMETERS AVERAGING
15 - 20 HECTARES FOR THE PRODUCTION OF
CEREALS, LEGUMES, VEGETABLES AND FRUIT.
Help groups of local farmers to equip irrigated perimeters  45            29
averaging 15-20 hectares each in lowlands or marshes. The



- 18-
project will finance construction materials, inputs, skilled labor  990 135  576 903
and transportation (assisted groups). Cost in 000' CFAF  .
V. IMPLEMENTATION OF SOIL CONSERVATION
PROJECTS COVERING ABOUT 150 HECTARES EACH
1. Design and supervisory services needed to equip lands,  15              9
tractor rental for land preparation, sledges for transporting
stone blocks (on parcels to be equipped)              30 543           144 100
Cost (in '000 CFAF).
2. Establishment of 20 village plant nurseries which will  20             0
produce the seedlings needed for live fencing and
windbreaks.
VI. IMPLEMENTATION OF SROs THAT HAVE YET TO
BE IDENTIFIED (E.G., FISHFARMING AND
BEEKEEPING)
Set aside 25% of total cost of sub-projects to fihance SROs that  25      39
are not included in the models already identified and appraised
(number of operations to be identified)                  496 517          210 834
Cost in '000 CFAF
VII. STUDIES
1. Studies aimed at better understanding the environment and
socio-economic situation.
1.1 Hydro-geological studies: number                     5                6
cost in '000 CFAF               24 121
1.2 Research monographs : number                         10               0
cost in '000 F CFA                   20 330
1.3 Studies of rumral legal framework: number            5                1
cost in '000 FCFA                 30 496           9 425
1.4 Miscellaneous studies: number                        25               18
costin '000                           50 826



Table 6: Studies Included Under the Project
Study              Objective as defined at appraisal    Status                    Study's impact
1. Provision of water-     Evaluation of value and cost of  Performed in 1989   Equipment costs, which were estimated at
management infrastructures equipping market garden perimeters                62 million CFAF, proved excessive for a
on Saikora market garden                                                    micro-project. Also, fees and maintenance
perimeter                                                                    costs for the irrigation network exceeded
the beneficiaries' financial capacity.
2. Land recuperation on the   Evaluation of the site and proposal of Performed in 1989   The study was flawed and incomplete. As
Kougoupti6 plateau      methods of land recuperation                         a result, the departmental team at Tahoua
had to redo it.
3. Harnonizing financing   Submit proposals to donors for  December 1987        The study failed to produced a proposal
procedures for SROs     harmonization of financing      through May 1990   that met the approval of all donors.
procedures for SROs
4. Expert appraisal of value of D6partement-level team estimated    Performed in 1990   The second opinion confirmed that
materiel misused at     value of misused materiel at these                   materiel had been misused.
Aouloumatt and Tsaratawa sites at 10 million CFAF
sites.
5. External appraisal of   Providing project with external  Performed in 1991   The results of this assessment were
SRDO project            assessment of its activities                        incorporated into the mid-term review of
the SRDO project.
6. Expert appraisal of the  Verifying that soils at the sites were  Performed in 1992
nature of the soils in which hard and crumbly as claimed by rural
Banizoumbou-Rambi and  engineering staff, in order to penmit
Landara wells were built.  project to authorize payment of
invoices of the finn that performed
the work.



7. Strategies of rural     Summarize traditional responses to   Performed in 1993
populations in the face of  food insecurity and organize
food insecurity         workshop to present findings
8. Hydrological            Examine possibility of building new   Performed between   The study identified wells needing further
reconnaissance and      wells or re-digging existing wells    1993 and 1995  digging, as well as a more suitable site for
geophysical study of                                                        the pastoral well at Sidi-Koira.
market garden sites
included in the SRDO
project
9. Study of treatment of koris Correct three koris threatening an off- Perforned between   The study showed that the treatment of
in Saida, Tambaranga and  season cropping site in Saida  October 1995 and    koris would cost about 600 millions
Keleme                                                  January 1996        CFAF. This cost was judged excessive for
a micro-project, and the koris remained
untreated.
10. Soils study of Angoual-    Verify whether the IRRIGASC  Performed in 1996   The study allowed the project to change
Bozari perimeter        system is suited to the site and if the             the technical specifications of the&,
soils are appropriate for mango trees.              IRRIGASC and to adapt them to local
conditions.
11. Project's impact on poverty Determine impact of project-financed Performed between   The study demonstrated the project's
alleviation             operations on beneficiaries.    November 1996 and  impact on beneficiaries. It pointed up the
February 1997       project's strengths and weaknesses, and
several of its recommendations were
imprlemented.
12. Second opinion on re-  Check that depth of redug wells  Performed in 1997   The study showed that the depth of the
digging of 20 wells by  corresponds to figures quoted in work               wells corresponded to specifications, but
OFEDES at the Alfa-Koira reports.                                           also revealed some construction flaws
site                                                                        which were subsequently corrected.



13. Analysis of strategies for   Prepare a document summarizing  Performed in 1997    The study pointed out the main strategies
agricultural growth and    studies performed in Niger.                         to be pursued in developing Niger's
rural anti-poverty efforts.                                                    agricultural sector.
14. Analyze of implementation Analyze causes of disputes between   Performed in 1997   The project applied the study's
of dairy project at Sidi-    beneficiaries and propose solutions               recommendations, thus resolving conflicts.
Koira (Say)
15. Agricultural surveys (11    Provide numeric data on      Performed between   The study provided data on agricultural
surveys)                beneficiaries' farm budgets       1994 and 1998        production and average revenues per site
and, in the case of the Rouafi marsh,
detailed sustainable operating parameters
for the marsh and its fishing activities, and
modified the internal rules of the
cooperative.
16. Enrichment of local natural Determine optimal dose of local  Performed between   The optimal phosphate dose could not be
phosphates through      natural phosphates to add to compost July 1997 and     determined. However, the population was
composting              to maximize the latter's effectiveness February 1998   made aware of the importance of natural
phosphates for soil fertility.
17. Water-saving techniques   Determine optimal irrigation   Performed between   The study's results are not yet known.
for fruit tree orchards in the technique for mango trees  March 1997 and
Sahel                                                     September 1998
18. Rehabilitation of Kargui-   Describe works needed in order to    Performed in 1998   The study has been completed and bidding
Bangou market garden    rehabilitate well head and the                         invitations have been drawn up for well
perimeter               perimeter's irrigation network, and                    digging and construction of irrigation
estimate cost of same                                 works.



19. Treatment of koris at   Prepare bidding documents in     Performed in 1998    The study has been completed.
Rouafi and Maifoula     connection with treatment of koris
20. Study of rural roads RN 16- Prepare bidding documents for works Performed in 1998    Bidding documents are available.
Saida and Tsaratawa-    associated with improving access to
Korama-Lamso            isolated villages
21. Legal and socio-economic  Analyze fishermen's (cooperative    Performed in 1998    The study outlined procedures that would
study of the Rouafi marsh. members') perceptions of their own                  allow for management of the marsh in a
activities from social and economic                   decentralized context. The project will
standpoints; evaluate degree to which                 share this unique experience with other
methods for managing marshland
have been assimilated; identify and
analyze disputes between fishermen
and inhabitants of the marsh's
periphery; and propose a legal
mechanism for sustainable
management of the marsh and its
associated fishing activities.



Table 7a : Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Component                        Appraisal estimate                    Actual/current estimate
Local     Foreign                     Local      Foreign
currency    exchange    Total    %    currency   exchange      Total     %
Support to technical services         2.4         1.4       3.8      25      3.7        2.44        6.15     35
Training                              0.8         0.4        1.2     8       1.32      0.009        1.33      7
DDRM office                           0.8         1.1        1.9     13      1.44       0.94         5.4      31
SRDO investments                      3.2         3.1       6.3      42     4.14                    4.14     24
Studies (including refinancing PPF)   0.6         1.3        1.9     12     0.48                    0.48      3
Total base cost                       7.8         7.3       15.1    100                                   _  100
Operating contingencies               0.3         0.3        0.6     4                                        =
Price contingencies                    2          0.3        2.3     15  _         _           _
Total project cost                    10.1        7.9        18     119    14.10        3.40        17.5     100
Average exchange rate of the dollar during project life: US$1 = CFAF327,8



Table 7b : Project Financing
(in US$ millions)
Source                    Appraisal estimate                         Actual/ current estimate
Local currency    Foreign exchange   Total   Local currency    Foreign exchange  Total
IDA                                         9.3          9.3                           9.5            9.5
Swiss Coop.                                 7.8          7.8                           7.5            7.5
Government                0.9                            0.9         0.5                              0.5
Total                     0.9               17.1         18.0        0.5              17.0            17.5



-25 -
Table 8a : Economic Outcome and Assumptions
1. The appraisal assessment of economic and financial returns was based on two SRO
models: bottomland development and pump irrigation. Project life was assumed to be
10-20 years with no assumption of a residual value and the opportunity cost of labor was
estimated at FCFA 300.
2.   On the basis of the above assumptions, appraisal estimates of the ERR were 22
percent for the bottomland model and 30 percent for pump irrigation.
3.   The re-estimated economic returns made no distinction between bottomland and
pump irrigation, as was done at appraisal. Experience during implementation was that an
SRO activity consisted of various combinations of the two: some include farmers who
practiced full motorized irrigation, some still use traditional techniques to pump water
and there are those who practice partial motorized pumping (i.e. pumping for only a part
of the year). The following assumptions were made for this analysis: (a) family labor is
free, (b) a project life of 20-25 years, (c) farmers--with the exception of participants in
land reclamation operations--reimburse a portion of the project investment.
4.  The assessment of profitability was conducted during the consultant-study on the
poverty impact of the project in November 1998. A sample of 14 SROs was used.
5   According to the assessment, the re-estimated ERR for the bottomland model was
19 percent, with the assumptions that the opportunity cost of family labor was FCFA 300
and the project's net investments are included in the cost stream. On the basis of the
appraisal assumptions, the ERR of a sample of 10 bottomland operations was an average
of 26 percent, and as high as 82 percent.
6.   The impact of the project on farm incomes has been analyzed on the basis of three
representative SRO models: bottomland, soil regeneration, fisheries production/dairying.
The analysis is based on a survey of 154 bottomland farm units, 40 soil regeneration
farms and 13 fisheries and dairy farm enterprises. It is assumed that the project will
reach full development in year 10. Financial prices of all inputs and outputs are based on
farm gate prices estimated during the project impact study mission and are constant 1998
prices, net of transport and adjusted for monthly fluctuations. Results of this analysis
(summarized in the table below) shows that net incremental incomes at full development
in yearlO were FCFA 1,867,000 per production unit (average of 4 members per unit) for
the bottomland operations, FCFA 809,000 for the soil regeneration model and FCFA
5,001,000 for the non-crop models. This strong impact on the incomes of the farm
families arise mainly from the higher cropping intensities, changes in cropping pattern
toward higher value crops, more intensive cultural practices and diversification toward
non-crop activities.



-26 -
Table 8b: Summary of Annual Farm Budgets
(at FCFA'000)
SRO Model          Future without Project Future with project  Increment
Bottomland:
Gross value of Production        112                 2,610           2,498
Cost of Production                60                   691             631
Net value of Production           52                 1,919            1,867
Soil Regeneration:
Gross value of Production          0                 1,112            1,112
Cost of Production                 0                   303             303
Net value of Production            0                   809             809
Fisheries Production/Dairy
Farming and Marketing:
Gross value of Production         0                  5,711            5,711
Cost of Production                0                   710              710
Net value of Production            0                 5,001            5,001



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit Agreement   Covenant   Present    Original       Revised               Description of Covenant                 Comments
Section         Type      Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillment Date
Date
3.03              10          C                                       In order to carry out Part C of the project, the Borrower is in full
Borrower shall annually  enter into  a  compliance.
framework  agreement  on  terms  and
conditions satisfactozy to IDA, with each of
the  relevant  provincial  and   district
development councils.
3.08              10          CP                                      In  order to  improve  coordination  and  The Borrower does this on
programming of all SROs under Part C of the ad hoc basis.
project, the Borrower shall organize, at least
once  a  year,  meetings  with  local
representatives of the donors involved in the
same type of operations to exchange views on
their  respective  investment  programs,
harmonize rules and procedures and evaluate
past and ongoing operations.
4.01(a)           01          C                                       (a) Borrower shall maintain or cause to be The Borrower is in ful
maintained records and accounts, adequate to  compliance..
reflect operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the project or any part thereof.
4.01(b)(i)        01          C                                       (b) Borrower"sha: (i)havetherecordsand  In compliance
accounts referred to in para.(a) of this
Section, including those for the Special
Accounts and any Sub-Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles,   by
independent auditors;
4.01(b)(ii)       01          C                                       (ii) furnish to IDA not later than 6 months In compliance
after the end of each such year, a cerified
copy of the report of such audit; and



4.01(b)(iii)      01                                                    (iii) furnish to IDA such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the
audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time
reasonably request
4.01(c)(i)        01                                                    (c)  For all expenditures from  the Credit
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account,
Borrower shall:  (i) maintain records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
4.01(c)(ii)       01                                                    (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA
has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal was made, all
records evidencing such expenditures;
4.01(c)(iii)      01                                                    (iii) enable IDA's representatives to examine
such records; and
. _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
4.01(c)(iv)       01                                                    (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are                            co
included in the annual audit referred to in
para.(b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion as to
whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year can be
relied  upon  to  support  the  related
withdrawals.
Status:                             Covenant Class:
C: Complied with                    1: Accounts/audit                                 7: Involuntary resettlement
CD: Complied after delay            2: Financial performance/generate revenue         8: Indigenous people
NC: Not Complied with                  frombeneficiaries                              9: Monitoring, review and reporting
Soon: Compliance expected in        3: Flow and utilization of Project funds         10: Implementation
Reasonably Short Time         4: Counterpart funding                           11: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
CP: Complied with Partially         5: Management aspects of the Project or of       12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
its executing agency
NYD: Not Yet Due                     6: Enviromnental covenants                      13: Other



-29 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual
Weeks                         US$
($000)
Through Appraisal                 184.2                        202.2
Negotiation-Board                  7.5                          19.0
Supervision                       258.7                        497.6
Completion                        12.0                          33.0
TOTAL                            462.4                        751.8



Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions preparation/supervision
Performance Rating
Project phase         Month/Year        Numbe    Days            Specialized Staff Skills     Implementation Status       Development              Types of
r of       in               Represented                                           Objecfives            problems
Persons    Field                                                                   O
Identification      August 1980
Preparation         September 1985
Appraisal           April 1987             5                   EC, OA, AS, TR, OA
Supervision I       September 1988         3         8         EC, AS, OA                       S                       U
Supervision II      March 6-April 2, 1989   4        27        EC, AS, FA, NRM                  S                        S
Supervision III     Nov. 13-Dec. 3, 1989    4        21        EC, FA, NRM, EX                  S                        S
Supervision IV      May-June 1909          5         18        EC, FA, EX, OA, RR               S                        S
Supervision V       Nov. 15-24, 1990       3         10        EC, FA, EX                       S                        S                                                          O
Supervision VI      June 18-23, 1991       3         6         EC, FA, EX                       S                        S
Supervision VII     Nov. 30-Dec.2, 1991    3         3         EC, FA, EX                       S                        S
Supervision VIII    April 6-30, 1992       5         25        EC, FA, 00, RF, MS               S                        S
(MT Review)
Supervision IX      April 13-May 1, 1993    4        18        EC, FA, 00, RR                   S                        S
Supervision X       Oct 27-Nov. 12, 1993   2         17        EC, FA                           S                        S
Supervision XI      Aug. 21-Sept 2, 1994    1        14        EC                               S                        S                       F
Supervision XII     Dec. 10-22, 1995       3         12        EC, 00, EX                       HS                       S
Supervision XIII    June 17-23, 1996       2         6         EC, 00                           HS                       S
Supervision XIV     Oct 23-29, 1996        4         7         EC, 00, EX, NGO                  HS                       S
Supervision XV      March 23-28, 1997      4         6         EC, FA, PS, RR                   HS                       S
Supervision XVI     June 28-Jul. 1, 1997   3         4         EC, 00, EX                       HS                       S
Supervision XVII     Feb. 23-March 2,      4         8         00, EX, NGO, TRG                 HS                       HS
1998



Types of problems:                             Subject specialty:
D: Slow Disbursement                           AE: Agricultural Economist
F: Availability of counterpart funds           AS: Agricultural Services Specialist
FP: Financial problems                         EC: Economist
L: Adherence to legal clauses                  EX: Extension Specialist
M: Project management                          FA: Financial Analyst
P: Progress with procurement                   LS: Livestock Specialist
TA: Progress with technical assistance         PS: Procurement Specialist
TR: Training                                   SE: Social Economist
RF: Rural Finance Specialist
MS: Management Specialist
TR: Training Specialist
00: Operations Officer
OA: Operations Analyst
NRM: Natural Resources Mgt. Specialist
RR. Resident Representative
NGO: NGO Specialist



-32 -
APPENDIX
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO TBE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
DIRECTORATE FOR REGIONAL AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
SMALL RURAL DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS PROJECT
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
Project Management Unit              September 1998



-33 -
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The initial proposal for a small rural development operations (SRDO) project was
put forth by an IDA mission that visited Niger in August 1980. In October 1981, IDA
approved a PPF advance of US$ 430,000 to the Government to help finance project
preparation. The preparation phase, which was entrusted to the FAO Cooperative
Program, was completed in March 1987. This phase was particularly lengthy due to the
time taken by Government to develop a policy on beneficiary participation in
development operations. Project appraisal took place in April/May of the same year.
Project objectives were defined as follows:
-  Development of local expertise in the preparation, appraisal, implementation
and ex-post evaluation of small rural development undertakings with the
active participation of the rural population;
-  Organization of effective extension activities once the SRDOs were up and
running;
-  Financing of productive short- and long-term investments by means of grants.
Increased agricultural production was not the primary objective in and of
itself, but was instead expected to result from a concerted effort to support
local initiatives with appropriate technical messages and clearly defined
financing rules;
-  Specific model SRDOs were expected to spur increased production of
produce, fruit and firewood, increase the stability of production, create jobs,
protect the environment and raise rural living standards. The project was seen
as the first phase of a program of IDA support to SRDOs that would
subsequently have nationwide impact.
At the time the project was designed, these objectives were relevant. Indeed, all
large projects financed by donors up to that point had yielded poor results relative to the
sums invested.  The main explanation given was that those projects had been
implemented without beneficiary involvement. It was therefore normal to reverse that
scenario and emphasize a participatory scheme that would make beneficiaries the
inevitable partners in the cycle of small projects. In addition, in order to avoid creating
parallel structures that would disappear once the project ended, the strategy consisted of
using the Administration's technical services to help farmers prepare, carry out and
evaluate SRDOs.
At credit closing, most of the project's objectives remain relevant. Indeed, Niger's
agricultural development policy is geared to: i) integrated natural resource management
through the restoration and preservation of a balanced ecosystem, which is currently
threatened; ii) organizing the population and making it accountable, and redefmiing the
role of the State; iii) food security, achieved through the availability and accessibility of



-34-
agricultural products at stable prices; and iv) the intensification and diversification of
agro-sylvo-pastoral production.
One objective that was not spelled out as such in the appraisal report, but which is
implicit in the project's modus operandi, is that of rural self-promotion. Funds recovered
from project investments were to constitute the point of departure for a series of other
socio-economic village development activities -- hence the necessity of organizing
groups that could embark upon this path.
2. INSTITUTIONAL SET-UP AND FOUNDATIONS OF THE PROJECT
PPF funds made it possible to fimance the operating expenses of the Directorate for
Regional Development and Micro-projects (Direction du Developpement Regional et des
Micro-realisations - DDRM) which was created within the Ministry of Planning in
December 1994 to assume responsibility for coordinating the SRDOs.
At the central level, it was envisaged that the office of the DDRM (now the DDRL)
would bear primary responsibility for project implementation, although decision-making
was to be decentralized and entrusted in most cases to the departements. However, in
order to avoid the proliferation within DDRM of management units for different donors,
a study on: DDRM's organization, various donors' procedures for financing SRDOs and
the various options for harmonizing procedures for SROs. In addition, a technical
committee had been created in July 1985 with the mandate of approving the annual
SRDO programs proposed in each d4partement, performing financial arbitration and
coordinating the technical assistance needed to prepare and implement SRDOs using
departement- and arrondissement-level services. Also, an interministerial micro-project
planning and implementation committee had been created in September 1984 in order to
develop a policy on SROs.
At the departement-level, project coordination was to be handled by the
departement's Director of Planning, who at that time was also the acting Assistant
Secretary General of the regional development councils. His mandate was to coordinate
and support SRDO programs in his departement. The regional development councils led
by prefects (regional governors) were responsible for approving not only their respective
SRDO programs but also each SRDO prepared by the technical services of the
departements and/or arrondissements. As soon as an SRDO was approved, the technical
services were to help the village to implement it. Assistant prefects (at the District/
Arrondissement level) in particular were expected to monitor payments made by
beneficiaries into capital replacement accounts (CRAs) and, in the event that this
stipulation was not respected, to alert the prefects and the DDRM office so that they
could take the necessary action.
In implementing the SRDOs, two types of contracts were to be used: i) a
framework agreement (accord-cadre) between the DDRM office and the regional and
sub-regional development.councils, to define the respective roles of the project, the
departements and the arrondissements in the areas of technical assistance, logistical



-35 -
support, supervision and training; and ii) a development contract between the sub-
regional development council and the producer group representing the beneficiaries.
This contract was to define the responsibilities of the various local authorities and
beneficiaries and, in particular, the latter's commitment regarding their in-kind and
financial contributions.
As designed, the project set-up was appropriate, especially since it relied on the
administration's structures and particularly on the development councils and technical
services. During implementation, certain difficulties emerged. For one thing, and
probably due to the lack of adequate resources, the arrondissement-level technical
services were not able to identify project ideas at the village level on a regular basis, and
were thus unable to replenish their databases continuously. The central office was
sometimes obliged to send missions to help the arrondissement services carry out this
task, but enthusiasm waned in subsequent years. Given this situation, the sub-regional
and regional development councils had no SRDO proposals to approve. The same was
true at the national level, since most of the time it was impossible to draw up an annual
program of micro-projects. These same councils disappeared subsequently with the
coming of a democratic regime.  In addition, the steering committee and the
interministerial planning and SRDO implementation committee never got off the ground
at all.
Given the weak capacity of the technical services to prepare and appraise project
dossiers, the regional development councils did not have an opportunity to approve
SRDOs as planned. Instead, the first project dossiers drawn up under the project were
approved by the World Bank, and this authority was progressively transferred to the
Project Management Unit.
The framework agreements were not implemented on a regular basis as planned,
since emphasis had been placed on development contracts. The project's attempts to
create sub-regional committees involving assistant governors and charged with enforcing
compliance with obligations to reimburse project financing into the development funds
for reinvestment and/or annual payments into the CRA, where medium term assets need
to be replaced, did not yield the desired results, and this task was definitively entrusted to
producer group themselves. Until the project's mid-term review, departement-level
managers were not heavily involved in project implementation since the financial
management of decentralized accounts was the responsibility of the arrondissements.
Finally, it should be noted that, at the central level, the project remained attached to
the Planning Ministry's Directorate for Regional and Local Development, despite the
Ministry of Agriculture's repeated requests for a change in supervisory function. At the
departement and arrondissement levels, the project was coordinated respectively by the
Planning Ministry's departement-level director and by its arrondissement-level section
head (chef de service). In actual practice, the cycle of a SRDO was the following:
preparation of the dossier at the sub-regional level; appraisal of the dossier by the
regional team; approval by the Project Management Unit and implementation at the sub-
regional level.



-36 -
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The components carried out under the project were i) small rural development
operations; ii) extension; iii) training; iv) organization of beneficiaries; and iv) studies,
surveys and consultants' services. As of June 30, 1998, the project had disbursed 3.2
billion CFAF (94 percent) of an IDA credit re-valued at 3.4 billion CFAF, and 2.4 billion
CFAF (74 percent) of a Swiss grant re-valued at 3.4 billion CFAF. Disbursements thus
total 5.6 billion CFAF out of a funding total of 6.8 billion CFAF, for an implementation
rate of about 84 percent.
3.1 Small rural development operations component
The project area was to cover 9 arrondissements distributed among 3 departements,
as follows:
-  Departement of Dosso: arrondissements of Birni N'Gaoure, Dosso and
Dogondoutchi;
-  Departement of Tillaberi: arrondissements of Tillaberi, Say and Filingu6;
- Departement of Tahoua: arrondissements of Birni N'Konni, Bouza and
Madaoua.
In order to be financed under the project, SRDOs needed to meet criteria showing
that they were: i) directly productive agricultural activities, in keeping with the national
and regional development strategy; ii) financially autonomous; iii) located within the
project area; iv) requested by one or several producer groups and obviously in their
interest; v) easily maintained by beneficiaries; and vi) ecologically sound.
Over a five-year project implementation (1989-1993), the financing of 96 small
operations was envisaged. The project carried out 49 operations that directly benefited
2,700 households, for an implementation rate of 50 percent. Of these operations, 32
dealt with market gardening, 6 with fruit orchards, 6 with land reclamation, 2 with fish
farming, 2 with dairy production and one with agricultural product processing. The two-
year project extension made it possible to implement 88 SRDOs, or 92 percent of the
number planned in the appraisal report. The 39 SRDOs carried out between 1994 and
1998 consist essentially of accompanying measures for the initial operations. More
specifically, they include agricultural product processing, animal traction, and cattle and
sheep fattening operations. As regards physical participation in the works, beneficiaries
supplied unskilled labor and furnished locally available construction materials.
Most of these operations are now in the implementation phase. Their impact on the
well-being of the population in undeniable and can be seen in poverty alleviation,
increased food security through increased productivity, improved nutritional status,
decreased outmigration, job creation and increased incomes.



- 37 -
Implementation of these operations was facilitated by the opening of local accounts
in the nine arrondissements covered by the project. It should be noted that the
decentralized system of financial management and the procedures put in place under the
project made it possible to train technical managers and administrative authorities in
accounting and financial management and to make them accountable for this activity.
This experiment carried out by the World Bank in Niger is unprecedented and unique in
Africa, and yielded excellent results.
The main constraints that the project encountered were: i) land tenure conflicts,
which resulted in the abandonment of certain sites and, sometimes, the exclusion of some
beneficiaries who did not own parcels of land; ii) inadequate technical follow-up due to
the project's dependence upon the State's administrative structures, which are not under
an obligation to produce results; iii) the failure to carry out certain preliminary studies
prior to making investments; iv) the low skill levels of local workmen/entrepreneurs; v)
the high turnover among the administration's personnel; vi) poor identification of certain
sites; and vii) the absence of marketing support infrastructures (rural roads, warehouses,
etc.).
3.2 Extension component
One of the project's main objectives was to organize effective extension activities
once the small operations were up and running. In 1989, when the pilot phase of the
Agricultural Support Services Project began, the World Bank decided to entrust the
SRDO project's extension component to that project. However, despite the fact that 450
million CFAF were taken from the SRDO project and applied to the Agricultural Support
Services Project, it became apparent that, from 1989 to 1993, the support provided to
farmers by agricultural services remained weak at all project sites.
Aware of these problems, project management organized a workshop in December
1994 for all parties involved. The workshop resulted in the design of site-specific
extension programs that were responsive to the needs of small-scale irrigation producers
of off-season horticultural products as well as to rainfed farmers who cultivate cereals
and tubers. In addition, and following the conversion of some under-exploited sites into
orchards, a customized extension program was established for these sites as well.
At the time of credit closing, results indicated that the level of adoption of
extension messages concerning off-season crops was high for the construction of a re-
planting grid (95 percent) and for crop spacing (92 percent) and average for the use of
organic fertilizer (56 percent). At beneficiaries' request, the first two messages were
omitted from the 1997/98 cropping season since they had already been mastered. For the
rainy season, the messages on thinning of seedlings, spacing and compost pits were
adopted at rates of 90 percent, 96 percent and 73 percent, respectively. On the other
hand, the organic fertilizer message was only adopted on 43 percent of the orchards. The
absence, prior to 1997, of financing for carts to transport compostable materials, and the
short supply of fertilizer in some villages, were the main problems limiting the adoption
of the composting and organic fertilizer messages.



-38 -
3.3 Training component
Counting all workshops together, the project trained about 500 technical managers
in the use of the project dossier preparation module, followed by a mini-project, internal
evaluation of a small operation and the Active Research and Participatory Planning
Method (MARP). This training brought about an improvement in the project dossiers and
monitoring/internal evaluation reports submitted and improved understanding of the
small project cycle. Its impact is particularly perceptible at the level of regional teams,
which remained much more stable than the arrondissement teams, and to which the
Government decided in July 1997 to assign regional project coordinators. The high
turnover among managers required the project to repeat training sessions and, since most
arrondissement-level managers were assigned to areas outside that of the SRDO project,
it is difficult to ascertain whether they will continue to give those areas the benefit of
their acquired experience. There is a risk of an eventual erosion of skills. Aside from
these formal training efforts, the project organized a series of in-service or foreign
training programs, with a view to sharpening the skills of its agents and technicians.
For beneficiaries, the training covered: i) the project's philosophy and 'rules of the
game', which were conveyed in sessions spent listening to cassette-recorded programs,
followed by discussions; ii) functional literacy; and iii) management. Several literacy
training methods were tested over the course of the project. The 45-day 'alpha rapide'
method and the continued training of already-literate farmers yielded particularly good
results. In certain cases where beneficiaries could not use the first method because of the
cropping calendar, a three-month intensive literacy course was also tried, with good
results. The criteria that were decisive for the literacy program's success were: i) proper
targeting of individuals to be trained (elected officials of producer groups); ii) age (under
45 years); and iii) permanent residence in the village. By the time the credit closed, the
project had trained a total of 548 people (up to levels 3 to 6) belonging to 24 producer
groups. Of these, 198 producer group officials reached operational literacy levels of 5 or
6, compared to a target number of 605, for a rate of 33 percent. Moreover, it is
absolutely crucial to support newly literate persons with post-literacy activities. By June
30, 1998, the project had established 45 libraries and 25 village printing presses. In the
area of management, the project had trained 220 managers belonging to 22 producer
groups.
3.4 Beneficiary organization component
The project needed to inject new life into 24 producer groups by emphasizing: i)
the operating rules for producer groups; ii) the various operational instruments that a
producer group must have; iii) knowledge of the roles and responsibilities of elected
officials; iv) the production of dossiers requesting official recognition; v) identification
of socioeconomic development activities; vi) the establishment of savings and loan
associations; and vii) the need to cultivate relationships with other [development]
partners. Although this program began in March 1996, three months prior to the initial
closing date, it continued during the project's two-year extension. It is unfortunate that



-39-
such an important program, implemented by a local NGO, could not begin sooner. Its
main accomplishments were the production of recognition dossiers for 24 producer
groups and the approval of some of them; the emergence of intervention structures and
elected officials of producer groups, the creation of 24 savings and loan associations, the
structuring of 22 economic activities for which dossiers remain to be submitted to
various donors, and the introduction of a capitalization policy within all the groups.
Despite these achievements, it should be noted that the rate of compliance with
obligations to contribute to the development fund and to the CRA remained weak overall.
As of December 1997, it stood at 23 percent for the development funds and 56 percent
for the CRAs. Until producer groups attain a sufficient level of training in group relations
and participatory principles plus a culture of discipline in cost recovery and in
management of shared assets, the much sought-after objective of rural self-promotion
will remain difficult to realize and sustain. This project laid the groundwork for further
progress in the pursuit of this important development objective.
3.5 Studies, surveys and consultant services component
The project financed a series of studies and surveys that served to solve problems
encountered in the course of implementation, or to supply qualitative or quantitative data
on the project. These studies and surveys were done either by consultants or by services
of the Administration (e.g., the Water Resources Directorate, Agricultural Directorate,
INRAN). However, it should be noted in particular that the project designed and
successfully applied a methodology for collecting statistical data on off-season cropping
sites, which the Agricultural Directorate has now mastered and can apply to other
purposes. Pond-based semi-intensive fisheries production also proved to be an enriching
experience based on the results of the scientific monitoring program set up under the
project (and implemented under contract with the National Agricultural Research
Institute).
4. OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE ACQUIRED UNDER THE PROJECT
After a ten-year project implementation period, it is indisputable that the project
has accumullated extensive experience in the management of small projects. The main
areas in which the project enjoys a comparative advantage over other projects include: i)
a knowledge of models of profitable small operations; ii) the preparation of project
dossiers; iii) mastery of the decentralized financial management system; iv) fruit tree
farming; v) pond fish farming; vi) creation of precise cropping plans and extension
programs; and vii) familiarity with time-tested methods of literacy training.
5. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
As indicated at the beginning of this report, the Government took considerable time
to formulate a policy on beneficiary participation in development operations.  This
caused a delay of about 6 years in the preparation of the SRDO project. As regards
credit effectiveness conditions, the Government lagged in preparing the Year 1 SRDO
program. However, this had no impact on credit effectiveness, since the Bank agreed to



-40 -
consider the Year 0 program (6 small operations approved but not yet implemented) as
the Year 1 program. On the other hand, the Government took all necessary measures to
recruit a financial director in a timely manner and to set up a satisfactory accounting
system and procedures. In fulfillment of the conditions for initial disbursements for civil
works, supplies and agricultural inputs, the Government submitted the draft frame
agreement and development contracts in a timely manner.
In the course of project implementation, the Government experienced a delay in
recruiting financial comptrollers. The insufficient qualifications of some of these
recruits, especially in accounting, often made it necessary for the Project Management
Unit to exert ex-post control over expenditures, and resulted in the dismissal of this staff
at about the mid-term point and their replacement by a financial comptroller based in
Niamey. The high turnover of Government agents and the frequent requisitioning of
project vehicles by administrative authorities had a negative impact on project
implementation. In addition, the liquidation of such financial establishments as the
BDRN and the Caisse Nationale d 'Epargne resulted, respectively, in the diminishment of
the project's revolving fund (special IDA account) by about 118 million CFAF and a
freeze on funds saved by producer groups. It should also be noted that, following the
split of the Post and Telecommunications Office into two autonomous entities - the
SONITEL (Sociefe Nigerienne de Telcommunications) and the ONPE (Office National
des Postes et de l'Epargne) -- enormous difficulties emerged in transferring funds into
the secondary accounts through the latter agency, especially during the project extension
period.
Because a project structure had been created and supplied with a full-time director,
the Govemment was unable to organize regular meetings to improve coordination and
programming of SRDOs as planned during the project design phase. On the other hand,
the Government submitted project audit reports and progress reports in a regular and
timely manner and participated in all supervision missions.
Three governmental decisions had a particularly favorable impact upon project
implementation: i) the stability of project management personnel; ii) the 1991 decision to
keep managers in the technical services in post for at least three years before transferring
them to other regions; and iii) the autonomy granted to the Project Management Unit in
the preparation and implementation of its work program. Decisions which hampered
project implementation, on the other hand, included the following: i) the 1990 decision to
increase the rate of credit consumption. This resulted in the hasty identification,
preparation and implementation of several SRDOs, which in turn resulted in an
accumulation of technical errors; ii) the revision of the law on the organization of
associations. This required groups already approved to re-submit their dossiers for
official recognition; iii) the central procurement commission's refusal to allow the
project to award a contract to an NGO, which resulted in a 7-month delay in the
revitalization program for producer groups; and iv) the decision to entrust the monitoring
and evaluation of certain operations entirely to NGOs. In a few rare cases (e.g., the
Garou incident), beneficiaries were essentially cheated of the investments put in place by
the project.



-41 -
6. PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK AND SWISS COOPERATION
From September 1988 through the credit closing date, the World Bank performed a
total of 17 supervision missions. These missions occurred at regular intervals and
touched on all aspects of the project. They were very thorough during the early years of
project implementation thanks to the time expended by the Bank's project officer, and
became shorter in subsequent years. Based on these missions, the Bank made several
recommendations that improved project implementation significantly. Among the most
relevant recommendations, one can cite: i) the dismissal of incompetent project
personnel; ii) the consolidation of viable project sites between 1993 and 1995; iii) the
two-year extension of the project; iv) the financing of accompanying measures,
especially those targeting women; v) studies on the project's impact on poverty
alleviation and on beneficiaries; and vi) the participatory nature of the missions, which
resulted in the development of local capacities and fostered institutional development.
During project implementation, there were no particular problems with the Bank
related to procurement procedures, and the replenishment of the project's special
accounts occurred at regular intervals and in a timely manner.
The Swiss Cooperation also participated in supervision missions, especially from
the Effectiveness date through 1995. The Swiss proposals for helping the project achieve
its objectives included: i) the financing of savings and loan associations; ii) the
establishment of third-tier accounts managed by producer groups; and iii) assisted self-
assessment of the operations by technical managers and beneficiaries.
Relations between the Government, the World Bank and Swiss Cooperation
remained good overall. However, the viewpoints of the Bank and Swiss Cooperation
diverged on the matter of the approach to extension. The Swiss went so far as to refuse
to allow the extension component to be financed out of their grant. They also insisted
repeatedly that the SRDO project incorporate a savings and credit component into its
operations. The Bank, after some initial hesitation, agreed to this proposal in 1996. The
Swiss also complained about lack of advance information to mount supervision missions,
although the project unit would constantly keep the local Swiss office fully informed
about such missions. It should be noted that inadequate capacity at their local office (i.e.
fewer staff) frequently constrained their involvement in supervision missions.
7. LESSONS LEARNED
The main lessons learned from the project are the following:
a)  an integrated approach to village-level development is better suited to taking
into account the real needs expressed by rural grassroots communities than a sectoral
approach;



-42 -
b)   outreach efforts directed at producer groups must be made prior to any
investment and must be performed during the investment phase of the project. The aim
should first be to establish the group's instruments of intervention and then to proceed
with the election of group representatives upon which the development partners can rely.
Then, without much delay, the small projects that will serve to anchor and render
operational the group's functional instruments must be identified, prepared and
implemented. Since rural development is a long-term enterprise, it seems reasonable to
design projects for a 10-year implementation period;
c)  the targeting of individuals to be trained must occur prior to the development
of a literacy and management program, if the elected representatives are to be
operational. In addition, the method of literacy training should be chosen by those who
are to receive such training;
d)  it is crucial that the foundation members of a new operation be provided with
proper assistance to select the beneficiaries on the basis of transparency and completely
objective criteria. In order to facilitate the work of outreach and organization, the
number of beneficiaries should be limited to 30. Priority should be given to the
financing of small revenue-generating projects. The more promising models include: i)
market gardening, sometimes in conjunction with fruit tree orchards. In some cases,
investments in private parcels can help avoid the emergence of land tenure problems; ii)
semi-intensive dairy operations, such as the one at Kaku; iii) pond-based fish farming
operations (like the one at Rouafi) provided that the ponds are monitored in a scientific
manner with a view to managing them wisely and preserving their resources; and iv)
animal traction teams, which present no particular risks for beneficiaries;
e)  in the context of the poverty alleviation strategy, it would be wise to finance
labor-intensive activities such as rural roads and the amelioration of koris in order to
inject monetary resources into the rural milieu.



IBRD 20647
N I G E R                                   _
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT  *,
PROJET DE PETITES OPERATIONS                               iA       A  D  E  Z
DE DEVELOPPEMIENT RURAL                                                                                                                     dGZma
C-OMPARISON OF ISOHYETS                             |    i8
COVOMPARAISON DES ISOHYETES
|M+,O, eoe 190 1985 0                                                                                                                                                                                                  r)rHcI Cop ac  a?\  -L|    n
I   lolietseeMille1itr;,19o- 18S   he  Lieu Bodoa                                              AsACa ondiGADE?f  .,.
|     1Sa/et- in MI ees 1951 1982 j, Dep,.,telt C.,il.,\                                                                 
M ill--, 1951-1982     ep,i- dc DSr- -                       ..                                                                                             -
C-tbole N,t-lolpe\,. 
--D,Io        i           m          i          .                             'AGADEZ |   *   I
D_ D,-r-  -o[  d--es      I\    In GII
nLie-'r d   otde Teire                                                                                   7 \                                        DI/
,,          (                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - N@)                                    / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D  /F  F  A                                                        D      IL-
--TWin Tob.rgd.nD 
. M   , A              L    I  .                    r A H O  YA                         Aoerb.ssAno/
_=EE m N \                .           -  -< f .                                M 'O \   aT.6-k-Z  N    D   E   R             i                            /
xe X 4 _ * * G= 0 o't-Gooo                                                                        bOeO4  
\ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~                                                     Maor,               ANE                                                                    __ _ bobol _DL__ _ Tm m_,,_'    MALI   j NIGER
ri'  ri K  I N  A   <t~ ~\  >   N   I  G   E   R   i  A                    o              MILES                        12-_  firfX      NIGERIA     / 'I
k~~~~~~~~A m                                                          A Am
GGSL I BYA
'     ALGE RIA       -      LIA
Torod,o                I--         -4--
B_1                                                                                                                                                           MALI           NIGER
KILOMETERS
so5   iso   15so    o        050
ISO~~~~~~~~A
MILES            INIGEoRIAM                                     HA
A   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        ~         '      ETA
sKINAC                                                                           E         R         I         A BE  N                                                                                   NGERI
G'C' ofG6eo       CAMERGOOI   E
SEPTEMBER 1 SRI



