Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1890 NIR
                 (Small Rural Operations Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 14, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1890 NIR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  14,  1988,  between  REPUBLIC OF
NIGER (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation  (Switzerland)  a non-reimbursable contri-
bution (the Swiss  Contribution)  in  an  amount of twelve million
five hundred thousand Swiss  francs  (SwF 12,500,000) to assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an  agreement  (the  Swiss  Contribution Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
     (C)  Switzerland has appointed  the Association to administer
the Swiss Contribution  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of a
Page  2
Procedural Arrangement,  dated  April  9,  1987 (the Arrangement),
between Switzerland and the  Association,  and the Association has
accepted such appointment; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to  extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit  Agreements"  of  the  Association,  dated  January 1,
1985, with the last sentence  of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BDRN" means Banque de Developpement de la Republique du
Niger;
     (b)  "Capital Replacement Account"  means  the account opened
or to be opened by a  Group of Producers for the purposes referred
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
     (c)  "CFAF"  and  "CFA  franc"   mean  the  currency  of  the
Borrower;
     (d)  "DDRM" means the Direction  du Developpement Regional et
des Micro-realisations within the Ministry of Planning;
     (e)  "DDRM Unit" means the  unit  within DDRM responsible for
SRO (as hereinafter defined);
     (f)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
runs from October 1 to September 30;
     (g)  "Group of Producers"  means  a  group of rural producers
with membership and  responsibilities  appropriate  to operate the
facilities under an  SRO  (as  hereinafter defined) and empowered,
through  its  authorized   representatives,   to   carry  out  the
obligations specified in Section  3.04  of  this Agreement, all in
accordance with the Borrower's  relevant procedures and applicable
laws;
     (h)  "Project Area" means  the  districts  selected  or to be
selected  by  the  Borrower  in   the  Niamey,  Dosso  and  Tahoua
Departments;
     (i)  "Project Preparation  Advance"  means  the  project pre-
paration  advance  granted  by  the  Association  to  the Borrower
pursuant  to  exchanges  of  letters,  dated  September  19, 1981/
October 16, 1981,  and  May  28,  1987/July  17, 1987, between the
Borrower and the Association;
     (j)  "SRO"  means a small rural operation identified or to be
identified by the Borrower, under Part C of the Project;
     (k)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Sub-Account" means any sub-account to be opened under a
Special Account for  the  financing  out  of  the  proceeds of the
Credit or the  Swiss  Contribution  of  SROs  under  Part C of the
Project, as set forth in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
Page  3
     (m)  "Swiss   Contribution   Account"   means   the   account
established  by  Switzerland   for   the   purpose  of  the  Swiss
Contribution.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to seven million  one  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of  the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
and  the  Swiss  Contribution  Account,  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Schedule 1 to  this Agreement, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so  agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
     (b)  Except  as   Switzerland   and   the  Association  shall
otherwise  agree,  the  allocation  and  withdrawal  of  the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the provision
of the General Conditions.
     (c)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF two  Special Accounts in a Niamey branch
of BDRN on terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement. The Borrower may, for  the  purposes of carrying out an
SRO under Part C of  the  Project,  open and maintain in CFAF, one
Sub-Account of a Special Account per district in local branches of
BDRN or  at  the  nearest  post  office,  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of  the  Project  Preparation  Advance,  withdrawn and out-
standing as of such date, and  pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1996, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Page  4
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  January  1  and July 1
commencing  July  1,  1998  and   ending  January  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association,  and after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out the Project, through
DDRM, with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial,  engineering  and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Page  5
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association and Switzerland shall
otherwise agree,  procurement  of  goods,  works  and consultants'
services, required for the Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Credit  and  the  Swiss  Contribution,  shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to  carry  out  Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall,  through  DDRM,  annually  enter into a frame-
work  agreement,  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association, with each  of  the  relevant  provincial and district
development councils, pursuant  to  which:  (a) the overall annual
program of  SROs  shall  be  defined  for  each  province; (b) the
respective responsibilities for, inter alia, technical assistance,
logistical support,  supervision  and  training  shall be assigned
between  the  relevant  provinces   and  districts;  and  (c)  the
provincial development councils shall  be entrusted with the final
approval of SROs which are part of their respective annual program
of SROs.
     Section 3.04. Pursuant to the framework agreement referred to
in Section  3.03  of  this  Agreement,  each  district development
council responsible for  carrying  out  an  annual program of SROs
under Part  C  of  the  Project  shall  enter  into  a development
contract  or  other   contractual   arrangements,   on  terms  and
conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Association,  with  a  Group of
Producers  responsible  for  the  execution  of  a  specific  SRO,
pursuant to which:
     (a)  each specific SRO shall be detailed;
     (b)  the respective  responsibilities  for  the  execution of
said SRO shall be assigned to the relevant districts and villages;
     (c)  the relevant Group of Producers shall be required:
          (i)  to  provide  all   unskilled   labor  required  for
               construction;
         (ii)  to reimburse, except for  the SRO referred to under
               Part C (3)  and  (4)  of  the  Project, the cost of
               materials used for well construction;
        (iii)  to bear all  operating  and maintenance costs after
               the initial 12 months of operation;
         (iv)  to collect the cash amount required to be deposited
               into a Capital  Replacement  Account  opened at the
               the nearest branch of  BDRN  or at the nearest post
               office, prior  to  initial  installation of medium-
               term assets  including  animals,  said  cash amount
               representing at  least  five  percent  (5%)  of the
               delivered cost  including  installation  charges of
               the assets;
          (v)  to collect  and  pay  into  the Capital Replacement
               Account cash  annuities  calculated  at replacement
               cost on dates  to  be  specified in the development
               contract;
         (vi)  to  allocate  land,  within  each  perimeter  to be
               developed as part  of  such  SRO, to the respective
               members of the Group of Producers; and
        (vii)  to  set  up  appropriate  operating  procedures for
               access of its members to common goods and services;
               and
     (d)  such district development  council  shall have the right
to inspect,  by  itself  or  jointly  with  representatives of the
Association, the  goods,  sites,  works,  construction, facilities
operated by the Group of Producers, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents.
Page  6
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall select, through provincial
development councils, proposed SROs under Part C of the Project in
accordance with the following criteria:
     (a)  SRO shall be a  directly  productive farming activity in
conformity with the national and provincial development strategy;
     (b)  SRO shall be financially self-supporting;
     (c)  SRO shall be within the Project Area;
     (d)  SRO shall have been  requested  by, and be manifestly in
the interest of,  a  Group  or  Groups  of  Producers having shown
willingness to accept the  provisions  of the development contract
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
     (e)  SRO shall be easily maintainable by beneficiaries; and
     (f)  SRO shall be environmentally sound.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the DDRM Unit to:
          (i)  examine at least twice  a  year  the status of each
               Capital  Replacement  Account   referred  to  under
               Section 3.04 (c)  (vi)  of  this Agreement, and, in
               case of deliquency, issue necessary instructions so
               that all appropriate  measures  are taken to ensure
               that all arrears are paid promptly thereafter; and
         (ii)  annually submit to  the  Association  the status of
               each Capital Replacement Account.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than August 31 of
each year, submit to the  Association, for information, the annual
provincial programs of all SROs under Part C of the Project.
     Section 3.08. In order  to improve coordination and programm-
ing of all SROs under  Part  C  of the Project, the Borrower shall
organize,  at  least  once  a  year,  meetings  with  local repre-
sentatives of the donors involved  in  the same type of operations
to  exchange  views  on   their  respective  investment  programs,
harmonize rules  and  procedures  and  evaluate  past  and ongoing
operations.
     Section 3.09. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  maintain during the
execution of the Project within the DDRM Unit a Financial Director
whose qualifications and experience  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association; and (b) recruit, not  later than October 1, 1988, one
financial controller in each  province  of  the Project Area and a
bookkeeper in each district  where  any  SRO is executed to, inter
alia,  monitor  the  operation   of  any  Sub-account  opened  and
maintained in accordance with  Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
     Section 3.10.  Upon  completion  of  the organizational study
referred to under Part D.2  of  the  Project, the Borrower and the
Association shall review  the  recommendations  of said study and,
not later than December  31,  1990,  the  Borrower shall carry out
those recommendations of said study  that shall have been approved
by the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Page  7
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Accounts  and  any Sub-account for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent   internationally   renowned   auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested  on  the  basis of Guide-
               lines  for  financial  reporting  and  auditing  of
               projects financed by  the  World Bank, published in
               1982 and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution Account were
made on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               or the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  was made, all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that:
          (i)  Subject to subparagraph  (ii)  of this section, the
               right of the Borrower  to  withdraw the proceeds of
               the Swiss Contribution made to the Borrower for the
               financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
               cancelled  or  terminated  in  whole  or  in  part,
               pursuant to  the  terms  of  the Swiss Contribution
               Agreement providing therefor.
Page  8
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this section shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation
               or termination is not caused  by the failure of the
               Borrower to perform  any  of  its obligations under
               such agreement;  and  (B)  adequate  funds  for the
               Project are available  to  the  Borrower from other
               sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  a Project accounting system and procedures, satisfactory
to the Association, have  been  established  for the DDRM Unit and
the Financial Director  referred  to  under  Section  3.09 of this
Agreement has been  recruited  with  qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association; and
     (b)  the first annual program of  SROs has been submitted and
is satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.03.  In   the   event   that  Switzerland  or  the
Association decides to terminate  the functions of the Association
as Administrator pursuant to  paragraph  5 of the Arrangement, the
Association shall notify  the  Borrower  promptly  of  the date on
which Switzerland shall assume  the  rights and obligations of the
Association as Administrator under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere du Plan
          B.P. 862
          Niamey
          Republic of Niger
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINIPLAN                         5463 NI
                Niamey
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Page  9
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                          By /s/ Moumouni A. Djermakoye
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                    and the Swiss Contribution
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the Credit and the Swiss Contri-
bution, the allocation of the amounts  of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution to each Category  and  the percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                   Amount of     Swiss Contri-
                  the Credit   bution Allocated
                   Allocated     (Expressed in        % of
                 (Expressed in   Swiss franc      Expenditures
Category        SDR Equivalent)   Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works   1,370,000       2,900,000     100%
     and supplies
(2)  Vehicles,      460,000        1,000,000     100%
     equipment and
     furniture
(3)  Agricultural   350,000         700,000      100%
     inputs
(4)  Consultants'   880,000        1,800,000     100%
     services,
     studies and
     audits
(5)  Operating      800,000        1,700,000     100%
     costs
(6)  Training       310,000         600,000      100%
(7)  Goods and      650,000        1,400,000     100%
     services for
     unidentified
     SROs
Page  10
                                Amount of the
                   Amount of     Swiss Contri-
                  the Credit   bution Allocated
                   Allocated     (Expressed in        % of
                 (Expressed in   Swiss franc      Expenditures
Category        SDR Equivalent)   Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8)  Refunding     1,140,000           -         Amount due pur-
     of Project                                  suant to Section
     Prepara-                                    2.02 (d) of this
     tion Ad-                                    Agreement
     vance
(9)  Unallocated   1,140,000       2,400,000
                  __________       _________
     TOTAL
                   7,100,000      12,500,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule,  the  term "operating
costs" means expenditures for  salaries of incremental contractual
local staff and vehicle operating and maintenance costs.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
     (a)  for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
     (b) for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) and (3) for
SROs under Part C of  the  Project,  unless:  (i) the draft of the
framework  agreement  referred  to  under  Section  3.03  of  this
Agreement for the first  year  is satisfactory to the Association;
and (ii) the draft of  the  development contract referred to under
Section 3.04 of this Agreement  for the first year is satisfactory
to the Association; and
     (c)  for  expenditures  in   respect   of  Category  (7)  for
unidentified SROs unless  the  Association  has approved the model
for said SROs in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to improve the Borrower's
institutional capability to  prepare,  appraise, execute and eval-
uate small rural  operations  and  to  provide effective extension
services thereafter.
     The Project consists of  the  following parts subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Support to Field Technical Services
1.   Strengthening of  provincial  and  district  services  of the
Borrower in the identification, preparation, execution and evalua-
tion of SROs through the  acquisition  of office equipment and one
four-wheel-drive vehicle at each  province  and district level and
the provision of a  development  volunteer from the United Nations
in each province to assist the Direction Departementale du Plan in
the coordination of development programs.
2.   Training in technical  and  communication skills of extension
agents at the village level  and the canton level, district chiefs
of  agricultural  services  and  provincial  chiefs  in  charge of
Page  11
extension services and acquisition of motorcycles.
3.   Training in project analysis  of  local staff at the district
and provincial  level  to  develop  said  staff's  capacity in the
preparation, organization, monitoring and control of SROs.
4.   Training in literacy and  management  of beneficiaries of the
Project.
Part B:   DDRM Unit
     Strengthening of the DDRM Unit  in its roles of coordination,
support and supervision of the Project's operations with technical
and administrative staff, and  acquisition of two four-wheel-drive
vehicles, two station wagons and office equipment.
Part C:
     Implementation  of  SROs  in  accordance  with  the following
models:
1.   Development of Bottomlands/Swamps
     Construction  of  about  45  irrigation  perimeters  of about
15-20 hectares each  in  bottomlands  for  crop  cultivation to be
operated  by  groups  of  about  60  farmers  per  perimeter,  and
acquisition  of  construction  materials,  agricultural  tools and
inputs, and services of skilled labor.
2.   Small-Scale Irrigation Perimeters
     Construction of about 15 small irrigation perimeters of about
18 hectares each for crop cultivation  to be operated by groups of
about 72 farmers  per  perimeter,  and acquisition of construction
materials, portable water  pumps,  agricultural  tools and inputs,
and services of skilled labor.
3.   Soil Conservation Operations
     Construction of rock  bunds  and  small anti-erosion works on
perimeters of about 150 hectares each for rainfed cultivation.
4.   Village Nurseries
     Establishment of about  20  nurseries  on perimeters of about
2,500 square meters each equipped with a cement-lined well.
5.   Unidentified SROs
     Additional models of SROs  to  be  identified by the Borrower
during  the  execution  of   the   Project  and  approved  by  the
Association.
Part D:   Studies
1.   Studies to  improve  knowledge  of  physical  environment and
socio-economic conditions  in  the  rural  sector, including mono-
graphs of selected areas,  a  land  tenure  study in the framework
of the  preparation  of  a  Rural  Code,  and  support missions in
hydrogeology.
2.   Organizational study  to  analyze  the  existing structure of
DDRM and the possibility to  harmonize procedures of SRO financing
by different donors.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  12
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable,  contracts for vehicles and equip-
ment shall be  procured  in  bid  packages  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Niger may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, vehicles  and  equipment  estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,500,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of  invitations  to  bid,  proposed  awards  and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works, vehicles
and equipment estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of $100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out of  a Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two conformed copies of each contract
required  to  be  furnished   to   the  Association,  pursuant  to
paragraph  2  (d)  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines,  shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of a Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are  to  be  made  out  of  a Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  each  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of  the  evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account or
the Swiss  Contribution  Account  on  the  basis  of statements of
Page  13
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower   shall   employ   experts   and  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience,  terms  and  conditions  of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Preparation of Annual Programs of SROs
1.   The annual programs of SROs shall be prepared by the services
of the Ministry of Planning  on the basis of identification sheets
of  SROs,  prepared  by   potential  beneficiaries  and  technical
services   at   the   provincial   and   district   levels.   Said
identification sheets shall reach DDRM,  not later than June 30 of
each year, in order  for  DDRM  to  prepare  the annual program of
SROs, and the framework agreement,  before August 31 of each year,
and make the corresponding budgetary allocations.
2.   The framework  agreement  shall  be  signed  by  DDRM and the
provincial and district development  councils  of the Project Area
where the SROs, included in the annual program, will be executed.
3.   When an identification sheet  proposes  an SRO which does not
fall under one of the  four  models  under  Part C of the Project,
DDRM shall  submit  the  new  model  to  the  Comite  Technique de
Pilotage  des   Micro-realisations   which   shall   invite  local
representatives of  Switzerland  and  the  Association,  and shall
check if the  new  model  complies  with  the criteria referred to
under Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
Preparation of SROs
4.   Upon transmittal of  identification  sheets  of SROs to DDRM,
the  potential  beneficiaries   shall   accomplish  all  necessary
formalities to  constitute  a  Group  of  Producers  under a legal
structure such as a mutual benefit  company, with an assembly or a
management  committee,  internal   control  mechanisms  and  basic
accounting. Other forms of  association  at  the village level are
possible as long as they allow  the Group of Producers to have the
necessary legal requirements for  the  opening  of a bank or post-
office account. Once  it  is  established,  the Group of Producers
shall prepare in detail the  SRO  for which it was established and
which is part of the  annual  program,  with the assistance of the
technical services at the  provincial  or district level. The last
step shall be the signature  of a development contract between the
district development council, where the  SRO shall be carried out,
and the Group of Producers  responsible  for the execution of said
SRO, in accordance with  the  provisions  of  Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
Page  14
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss  Contribution  allocated  from  time  to time to the
eligible  Categories  in   accordance   with   the  provisions  of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount of
CFAF 220,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited  into  the  Special  Account  used  exclusively  for the
Credit; and (ii) an  amount  of  CFAF  220,000,000 to be withdrawn
from the Swiss Contribution Account and deposited into the Special
Account used exclusively for  the  Swiss Contribution, pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of a  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and  subsequent  withdrawals  to replenish a
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from  the   Credit   Account  and  the  Swiss
Contribution Account  and  deposit  into  the  appropriate Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of a  Special  Account  at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from  the  Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account  and  deposit  into  the  appropriate Special
Account such amounts as  shall  be  required to replenish the said
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the  said  Special  Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit  Account  and  the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  under the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule. Any  Special  Account  will  not  be replenished on
account of deposits made into  any Sub-Account unless the proceeds
of such deposits  have  been  used  to  make payments for eligible
expenditures.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account, or out  of  a  Sub-Account  of  such Special Account, for
which the Borrower requests  replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3
(b) of this Schedule, the  Borrower  shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, prior to or at the  time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the  Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that  such  payment  was  made  for  eligible expenditures. In
addition to such documents,  when the Borrower requests replenish-
ment of a Special Account for funds deposited into any Sub-Account
which have already been disbursed, the Borrower shall also furnish
to the Association, prior to or  at  the time of such request, the
bank statements of said Special Account.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
Page  15
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly  from  the  Credit  Account  or  the Swiss
               Contribution  Account   in   accordance   with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions               and  
paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of  the Credit or the
               Swiss  Contribution   allocated   to  the  eligible
               Categories, minus  the  amount  of  any outstanding
               special commitment entered  into by the Association
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the General Conditions
               with respect to the Project,  shall be equal to the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account of  the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or  the  Swiss  Contribution  allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
a Special Account as of the  date  of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
said Special Account  (or,  if  the  Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an  amount  equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the  Association  into the said Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account.
