Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 fiLE COPY
Report No. P-3083-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE
COTONOU WATER/SANITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
June 5, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =        CFAF
US$1.00                     CFAF 235 1/
CFAF 1,000         =        US$4.3
CFAF 1,000,000    =         US$4,255
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  January 1  -  December 31
SBEE:         July 1      -  June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mm = millimeter          =    0.04 inches
1 cm = centimeter          =    0.39 inches
1 m  = meter               =    3.28 feet
1 km = kilometer           =    0.62 miles
1 1  = liter               =    0.26 US gallons
1 m3 = cubic meter         =    264 US gallons
lpcd = liters per
capita per day           =    0.26 US gallons per capita per day
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MIME    = Ministry of Industry, Mining and Energy
MRD     = Municipal Road Department
SBEE    = Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau
SONAGIM = Societe Nationale de Gestion Im mbiliere
MPH     = Ministry of Public Health
MPWCH   - Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1
to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
COTONOU WATER/SANITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of Benin
Amount:                SDR 4.1 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:       US$2.8 million equivalent would be relent to Societe
Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE) for 20 years
including 5 years of grace, at 9.6 percent per annum.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Govern-
ment.
Project Description:  The objectives of the proposed project are to address
the most urgent water and sanitation needs of Cotonou,
Benin's largest city and economic center, and through
studies, to help define and implement long-range sector
objectives and strategies. The proposed studies would
include preparation of master plans for water supply and
sanitation, and for urban development; review of exist-.
ing tariff and accounting systems with recommendations
for improvement; training program for staff of the
principal project implementing agency (Societe Beninoise
d-Electricite et d'Eau - SBEE); and detailed design and
bidding documents for a first stage construction program
to be carried out under a possible future project. The
priority works provided for under the proposed Credit
would include development of four additional wells to
increase Cotonou's water production capacity, and the
extension by about 82 km of the water distribution
system to low-income areas; improvement of drainage in
some urban areas which are subject to frequent floodings;
and strengthening of solid waste collection and sanita-
tion services. There are no particular risks associated
with the proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Cost (net of taxes)
Priority Works:
Local    Foreign    Total
-----US$ 000----
Construction of 4 water wells                        190       265         455
Extension of water distribution system               250       410         660
Cleaning of existing drains                          130         -         130
Construction of 14 culverts                           10        25          35
Purchase of solid waste and sludge
collection trucks                                    -      685         685
Subtotal                                           580    1,385       1,965
Studies:
Water supply/sanitation and drainage
masterplans and engineering studies          200    1,060        1,260
Aerial photographic survey and mapping
work                                          50       450         500
Urban development plan                          50       450         500
Training of SBEE's key staff                    10       130         140
Pilot plan for health education                  -        30          30
Water/sanitation tariff study                    15      110         125
Financial studies including audit of
SBEE's FY80/81 accounts                       20       180         200
Sub-total                                 345    2,410       2,755
Base Cost                                      925    3,795        4,720
Physical contingencies                         140       400         540
Price contingencies                            235       805       1,040
Total                                   1,300    5,000       6,300
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                       -    5,000        5,000
SBEE                                           950         -         950
Government                                     350         -         350
1,300    5,000       6,300



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY82     FY83      FY84    FY85
Annual                                 1.0       1.8       1.6     0.6
Cumulative                             1.0       2.8      4.4      5.0
Rate of Return:           Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  None
Map:                     IBRD No. 13797
I






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE COTONOU WATER/SANITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 4.1 million (US$5.0 million)
on standard IDA terms to help finance the Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering
Project. US$2.8 million would be relent to Societe Beninoise d-Electricite et
d'Eau for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 9.6 percent per annum to
finance the foreign exchange cost of proposed studies and improvements in
Cotonou's water distribution and sanitation systems.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 2079-BEN, issued
in May 1979) was the result of a basic economic mission which visited the
country in fall 1977. The paragraphs below are based on this report, but
include updated information. Annex I provides basic country data.
Introduction
3.        After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized
by frequent changes in Government prevailed until the revolution in 1972 which
brought to power the military Government of President Kerekou. The new regime
immediately took steps to replace foreign dominance in the modern sector and
strengthen the Government's involvement in the agricultural sector. These
measures initially disrupted the economy since there was an inadequate number
of trained Beninese to replace the departing expatriates. Yet, the Government
also pursued conservative financial policies which resulted in budgetary
surpluses and the maintenance of the debt service ratio at less than 7 percent.
4.        Benin has now enjoyed a comparatively long period of political
stability under a tight, centrally controlled one-party system. Following
the adoption of a new constitution, Lieutenant Colonel M. Kerekou was recently
confirmed in early 1980 as President of the Republic for a three-year term by
the National Assembly. Mr. Kerekou has in turn appointed a civilian-dominated
Government.
5.        The nation is poised for a period of moderate growth propelled by
major investments in the industrial sector. But Benin's near-term prospects
should be assessed with caution, because they are dependent on a few key
factors: the Nigeria and Niger markets, success of key industrial projects,
and continuation of a prudent budgetary policy.
1/   The text of this section is essentially the same as that included in the
President's Report for the Fourth Highway Project which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 27, 1981.



-2-
Recent Economic Developments
6.        With a population of 3.3 million people and a GNP per capita of
$250 (1979) per annum, Benin remains one of the least developed countries as
defined by the U.N. Over the 1976-80 period, the country enjoyed an average
real GDP growth rate of 4.6 percent, and a sound public finance position.
Exports are limited (US$170 million per annum) and little diversified (mainly
oil palm products and cotton). A large resource gap, 20 percent of GDP, is
shown over the 1975-80 period according to Central Bank statistics. The gap
is, in fact, smaller due to the substantial volume of informal, unrecorded
exports, primarily to Nigeria. Also, an important part of the remaining
shortfall is financed by a sustained inflow of workers remittances and
capital grants, leading to only a modest reliance on medium- and long-term
borrowing.
7.        Agriculture, which employs about 70 percent of the population
and generates about 40 percent of GDP (1980), has not substantially increased
its output over the past decade. With respect to export crops, cotton peaked
in 1972 at 50,000 tons, but has since fallen to around 15,000-20,000 tons.
Palm oil production continued to increase until the mid-1970s, but output has
been reduced since a severe drought in 1976. Institutional changes, insuffi-
cient farmgate prices, lack of financial resources, and the absence of techni-
cal assistance are the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of
export crops. Foodcrop production, although beset by many of these problems,
has fared somewhat better with sustained demand from Nigeria. The situation
of the sector in general is slowly improving under renewed Government support
through producer price increases, less interference with market forces,
and better climatic conditions.
8.        The industrial sector is still undeveloped due to a lack of skilled
manpower, smallness of the local market, and institutional constraints. It
employs less than 2 percent of the labor force, contributes 11 percent to GDP
(1979), and consists mostly of processing of agricultural products and import-
substitution activities. The sector achieved an 11 percent annual growth rate
during 1972-76, but slowed down to 4.9 percent during 1977-80 because of a
fall-off in demand from the Nigerian market. Currently, Benin is beginning to
exploit its natural resources through several major industrial projects: the
Onigbolo cement factory (limestone), the Save sugar plant, and the Seme off-
shore oil field (para. 14).
9.        The tertiary sector (mainly transport and commerce) accounts for
about 40 percent of GDP (1980), and employs almost 40 percent of the labor
force.  The port of Cotonou has traditionally provided access to the sea for
landlocked Niger and the western part of Nigeria. The Niger traffic through
Cotonou Port rose from 180,000 tons in 1973 to 529,000 tons in 1977, and
total transit traffic including Nigerian traffic rose to a peak level of
900,000 tons in 1979, and then declined slightly during 1980.
10.       As a result of a prudent budgetary policy, Benin has been run-
ning current surpluses averaging about 4-5 billion CFA during the last five



years. The Government followed a conscious policy of controlling current
expenditures (which showed no increase in real terms during 1972-79) through
limits on salaries of civil servants, and holding down maintenance expendi-
tures. It also derived increased revenues from the rise in cross-border trade
with Nigeria, and from increased small-scale industrial activities (textiles,
beverages). However, the overall budgetary position has been in deficit
because of substantial expenditures on investments and Government lending in
support of unprofitable state enterprises. In 1979, the overall deficit of
the central Government budget rose to 16 billion CFA, nearly three times the
average level of the previous four years. This substantial shortfall was the
result of the Government's efforts to mobilize resources for an accelerated
implementation of the Three-Year Development Plan (see para. 15). The defi-
cits have been financed mainly from external sources and domestic borrow-
ing.  For 1980, a 50 percent rise in the deficit was estimated, concurrently
with a quadrupling of domestic borrowing.
11.       Prices have been kept under control, and the overall rate of infla-
tion was limited to 9-10 percent in 1978-80. The increased economic activity
induced by the start-up of major industrial projects is likely to exert
continuous pressure on prices in the next few years, with an inflation rate
of 11-12 percent projected for 1981-82.
12.       The Government is committed to broad-based socio-economic policies,
but a key concern hitherto has been to keep wages and salaries low because
of limited public revenues. In real terms, both public and private sector
salaries have declined.  Cash incomes of the farmers may have increased
slightly, the losses resulting from the drop in cotton production probably
having been maie up by increased exports of maize to Nigeria. Thus, Benin
is one of the few countries in Africa where the urban-rural income gap has
not widened in recent years. Education is one of the Government's top
priorities. The Government is in the process of implementing reforms aimed at
both adjusting the education system to the needs of the country, and reducing
the high cost of formal education which absorbs 33 percent of the Government's
recurrent budget. Health facilities are still poor, and the social indica-
tors for Benin (literacy, life expectancy, etc.) remain well below the
average for low-income developing countries. The Government's objectives are
to expand health facilities in the provinces and to integrate modern and
traditional medicines, but few resources have been made available to accom-
plish these goals.
13.       One of the most serious threats to health is the lack of access to
clean and potable water both in urban and rural areas. The Government, with
the assistance of IDA, the African Development Bank, UNICEF and bilateral aid
is undertaking a program to develop public utilities in secondary centers and
wells in rural areas. But these investments remain negligible in relation to
existing needs.
The 1978-80 Development Plan
14.       A Three-year Plan (1978-80) was issued in October 1977, setting
out the Government's economic goals. Its stated objectives are to raise
the general standard of living, to strengthen national economic policies,



- 4 -
and to promote broad participation in the conception and implementation of
economic and social changes. Investment allocation in the Plan favors large-
scale projects. The major items are: the Cotonou Port extension (US$50
million) financed by IDA and seven other agencies; a 40,000-ton sugar project
at Save (US$210 million); a 500,000-ton cement plant at Onigbolo (US$159
million); and the Seme offshore oil production project (US$120 million),
estimated to yield a total of about 11 to 20 million barrels.  These projects
together account for some 50 percent of Plan investment.  Work on the Cotonou
Port is far advanced.  The sugar and cement projects are joint ventures with
the Nigerian Government, with Nigerian marketing and financing guarantees.
The production of sugar, cement and oil should commence around 1982.
15.       In fact, the rate of implementation of the Three-Year Plan has been
less than 50 percent of Plan objectives. Major difficulties include inade-
quate project preparation and coordination, delays in obtaining foreign finan-
cial commitments, and insufficient control over project execution. Recently,
however, the Government has succeeded in accelerating commitments from foreign
aid donors, and total public investment is likely to be some US$750 million in
the five-year period 1978-82. This represents an increase in the public
investment rate from 10 percent during 1972-77 to 19 percent in 1978-82.
Prospects
16.       The medium-term outlook for economic growth in Benin is moderately
optimistic. Real GDP growth during 1981-85 is expected to average 5-6 percent
per annum. The risks to Benin's economy are a slackening of export demand
and the negative impact of problems which may arise in implementing the large
projects. The benefits from these projects are, in turn, dependent upon price
agreements (with Nigeria in the case of cement and sugar). Benin's agricul-
tural growth prospects will, moreover, depend on effective pricing and market-
ing policies in the rural sector. In the long term, Benin's growth potential
will be limited by a poor resource base to perhaps 4 percent per year, and
even the achievement of this rate will depend on the ability of Government to
channel resources and orient programs (in social and economic infrastructure,
training, marketing, etc.) towards the development of food and cash crops.
17.       Benin's public finance and balance of payments situation may fluc-
tuate more over the next five years than has been the case in the preceding
half-decade. In the mid-1970's conservative public policies led to budget
surpluses and a stable trend in foreign reserves.  This partly reflected,
however, the lack of sizable new initiatives in public investment.  The
situation is now changing with the increase in public investtent which places
heavy demands on the Treasury for counterpart funding, and steps up the
pace of capital and intermediate goods imports matched by foreign financial
inflows. The balance of payments will undergo fluctuations between now and
1985 under the impact of the major projects.  Since the large projects under-
way will heavily influence the trade balance and public finances, their
successful implementation is essential for Benin's medium-term outlook.



18.       Benin's total external debt (including undisbursed), which until
the end of 1980 had remained relatively low (amounting to US$425 million with
a debt service equivalent to 4.5 percent of the country-s exports), is expected
to rise substantially as investments increase and borrowing conditions harden.
The debt service ratio is projected to exceed 20 percent of exports in the
mid-1980s. This ratio is high, but up to 80 percent of the debt service is
accounted for by the large projects, two of which are guaranteed by Nigeria.
19.       In view of the country s low per capita income, the growing need for
external funding of priority projects in an expanding economy, and Benin-s
*           narrow export base, it will be necessary to increase the volume of foreign
financing on concessionary terms. Benin is expected to be able to finance no
more than 10-15 percent of its overall public investment program, thus foreign
*            donors should continue to provide a large share of total project costs,
including some financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
20.       To date, the Bank Group has extended twelve credits to Benin, in-
cluding two supplementary credits, totalling US$104.8 million. Four of the
credits were for agriculture (32 percent of total lending), five for highway
construction and maintenance (45 percent), and one each for port expansion,
education and small-scale enterprises development. Annex II contains a sum-
mary statement of Bank Group operations in Benin, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
21.       IDA's first operation in Benin was the HINVI Agricultural Devel-
opment Project (FY69) which provided for oil palm plantings and foodcrop
development. The project was completed in 1974. As stated in the Project
Performance Audit Report (M78-451 of May 19, 1978), poor rainfall delayed
palm tree development, while foodcrop production remained below appraisal
estimates mostly because of labor constraints. To overcome this difficulty,
an accelerated program of ox-drawn cultivation was initiated. Animal trac-
tion expanded rapidly, resulting in substantial increases in maize yields.
The project was successful in assisting SONADER, the executing agency, to
continue its good performance and supporting cooperative developments. The
second agricultural credit, the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (FY72) has also been
completed (Project Performance Audit Report M78-353, April 20, 1978). This
operation aimed at expanding cotton and foodcrop production in the Zou-Borgou
provinces. Due to frequent changes in Government policy, and reorganization
of institutions within the sector, the project failed to achieve its objective
of increasing cotton production. Foodcrop production, on the other hand, was
expanded mainly due to growing demand from neighboring Nigeria. While the OED
Report did not conclude that a larger maize component in the project would
have made it successful, experience suggests that agricultural packages should
be more diversified by combining export cash crops and staple food crops, with
the latter included to satisfy farmers subsistence needs and to supply domes-
tic markets and those of neighboring countries. It was clear that careful
project monitoring was also necessary to provide a measure of flexibility to



- 6 -
the implementing agency. The third project in the agricultural sector was the
Technical Assistance Project (FY77) designed to strengthen the country's agri-
cultural institutions, carry out pilot projects, conduct foodcrop research,
and re-train extension services. Although the project did not fully meet all
the set objectives, it did result in satisfactory preparation of two follow-
up operations to the Zou-Borgou project (including appropriate measures to
improve the managerial and technical performance of the various executing
agencies). The first of these two projects focusing on the Borgou Province
was approved by the Executive Directors in April 1981.
22.        The Bank Group's involvement in the transport sector in Benin began
in 1969, when the Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UNDP "Land Transport
Study."  This study led to the financing of a four-year Highway Maintenance                    9
Project in FY69. The Project Performance Audit for this project (Report No.
M77-758) of October 25, 1977 indicated that significant strengthening of the
Government department then responsible for maintenance operations occurred
under the project. The Second Highway Project (FY73), co-financed by USAID,
comprised the reconstruction of 320 km (Parakou-Malanville) and short sections
(between Godomey and Bohicon) of Benin's north-south trunk road, continuation
of the road maintenance program initiated under the first project, and train-
ing. The project was satisfactorily completed. The rate of return of the
Parakou-Malanville road is estimated at 16 percent versus 13 percent at
appraisal, and 30 percent versus 19 percent at appraisal when including
benefits to Niger from its transit traffic. The Third Highway Project (FY78)
provided for further rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the Godomey-Bohicon
road and expansion of the maintenance program, including elimination of the
backlog in resurfacing bituminous laterite roads. A Fourth Highway Project
aimed at improving the efficiency of routine and periodic maintenance, and
continuing the elimination of the backlog maintenance of laterite roads was
approved by the Board earlier this fiscal year. The project provides for the
rehabilitation of about 500 km of gravel roads and the reconstruction or
resealing of about 84 km of paved roads. The paved road sections were origin-
ally to be resurfaced under the Third Highway Project, but have now deterior-
ated to the point where full reconstruction is required. A feeder road develop-
ment program was initiated under the First Feeder Road Project in FY77. This
project has been completed, and a second one to continue the program was also
approved earlier this fiscal year. The major objective of a Port Project
approved in 1978, is to raise the cargo-handling capacity of the port by
providing additional berth (660 m), storage capacity, and technical assistance
to improve port operations. Implementation of the project has encountered
technical problems resulting in cost overruns, and Government is seeking
supplementary financing from the co-lenders.
23.        The First Education Project (FY74) emphasized the non-formal
sector. Its aim was to train rural youth and upgrade the country's voca-
tional training capacity.  The rural youth training component is now being
evaluated to determine whether a follow-up project would be justified.
A Second Education Project (scheduled for FY83) would consist of training
for primary, secondary, and technical school teachers, and production of
didactic materials.



- 7 -
24.       In FY80, IDA granted a Credit to the Banque Beninoise pour le
Developpement (BBD), the national development bank providing medium- and
long-term loans to both the public and private sectors. The project is aimed
at providing BBD with resources needed to finance small- and medium-scale
enterprises up to 1982, and strengthening BBD's management and capacity to
promote small- and medium-size investments.
25.       The remainder of the planned program until 1985 is devoted to
continuing work in sectors with existing IDA involvement, such as highways,
education, and possibly small-scale industry, and initiating Bank Group support
in oil exploration and in the urban sector. The proposed project would help
define and implement long-range objectives and strategies for water/sanitation
and urban development, and assist in the preparation of follow-up projects.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
26.       Water resources in Benin come from rivers, lakes and groundwater.
There are several rivers: the Oueme (with its tributaries, the Zou and the
So), the Mono, the Couffo and the Niger. They have a variable flow, and often
carry no water during the dry season. Several lakes are located in the south
of the country. Groundwater, which is available throughout the country, is
the principal source of drinking water. About 25 percent of existing wells
have a depth in the 80-meter range; the remainder are shallow ones, with
an average depth of about 20 meters.
Water Supply
27.       Surveys of the water supply/sanitation sector were carried out in
1978 and 1980 under the World Health Organization/Bank Cooperative Program.
Information collected under the survey revealed that only 50 percent of the
urban population have access to safe water, of which slightly less than half
are served by house connections, with an average consumption of about 50
liters per capita per day (lpcd). The remainder are served by standpipes,
with an estimated average consumption of about 10 lpcd, or use private wells.
There are seven piped urban systems in the country. Six of them (Cotonou,
Porto Novo, Abomey, Bohicon, Ouidah and Lokossa) use groundwater, while
Parakou uses water from a surface source. In the rural areas of Benin, only
about 20 percent of the population have access to safe water. There are about
470 pumped wells, but only about three-quarters of them are in operation
because the corrosiveness of the water has damaged the well casings. Most of
the unserved population uses rain water stored in private cisterns.
28.       Cotonou is located on a sand reef on the average 2-3 meters above
sea level and separated from the mainland by a lake (Nokoue) which varies in
salinity according to the season. The city is divided by a dredged channel
which connects the lake to the sea. The city-s potable water system is sup-
plied by seven wells, operated by Societe Beninoise d Electricite et d'Eau
(SBEE), with a total capacity of 15,000 m3 per day. According to ongoing



preliminary hydrogeologic studies, the total aquifer safe yield is estimated
at 20,000 m3/day. While the estimated yield of this aquifer would be
sufficient to meet Cotonou's demand at least over the next five years, addi-
tional water sources to meet the long-term needs have to be identified. The
water supply master plan to be financed under the proposed project would
consider all potential water resources for the Cotonou region.
29.       Current water production meets less than half of Cotonou's normal
demand. The production problems are aggravated by the fact that the water is
very corrosive, and some of the wells installed have had short lives. The
water is treated in a modern and well-maintained plant, and distributed
through a system which supplies about 6,500 house connections and 70 public
standpipes.  Only about 40 percent of Cotonou's population is served by the
water distribution system, which has yet to be extended to those new areas
occupied by recent migrants to the city. That part of the population not
served by the system either buys its drinking water from water vendors or from
people connected to the distribution system (at very high rates, almost 15
times the normal tariff), or they take it from rainwater stored in private
cisterns or from shallow wells, which are very often polluted, and particularly
during the rainy season.
30.       The water distribution system comprises about 21 km of transmis-
sion main and about 250 km of distribution network. There are three elevated
reservoirs which have a total volume of 2,000 m3 (13 percent of daily consump-
tion).  Although the transmission system of the water distribution network has
sufficient capacity to carry the projected demand during at least the next
five years, the distribution network is inadequate and requires urgent improve-
ments and extension in order to serve a larger segment of the population. The
proposed project would provide for the construction of additional wells and
the rehabilitation and extension of the water distribution system. The new
wells would be equipped with corrosion-resistant casings. Since at present
most of the 70 existing standpipes are not connected or closed because daily
water consumption has reached production capacity, SBEE would undertake to
open the standpipes as soon as additional production capacity becomes available
from the new wells included in the priority works component of the proposed
project (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.03).
Sewerage and Solid Waste Collection
31.       There is no water-borne sewerage system in Benin.  About 20 percent
of the urban population has access to excreta disposal service. Only two main
cities, Cotonou and Porto Novo, have a municipal service for emptying septic
and holding tanks. In the rural areas, only an estimated 5 percent of the
population have latrines. Organized waste collection and disposal exists only
in Cotonou and Porto Novo, and present service level is grossly inadequate.
32.       Sanitation in Cotonou is even less developed than water supply.  As
noted earlier, there is no water-borne sewerage. About 35 percent of the
population have septic and holding tanks, and less than 5 percent still use
the pan system for which municipal collection service has practically ceased.
Due to the high groundwater level, there are relatively few latrines and most



- 9 -
of them in the outlying areas. The remaining 60 percent of the population of
Cotonou lack sanitary facilities, thus posing a severe pollution risk. The
Municipal Roads Department which is responsible for emptying of septic and
holding tanks, has recently purchased a fleet of five suction trucks, but is
not able to satisfy present needs. The proposed project would provide financ-
ing for two additional suction trucks to alleviate this problem. The sludge
is disposed of in an abandoned rainwater-filled quarry which is considered a
temporary measure because of its potential danger for groundwater pollution.
33.       Refuse collection is inadequate.  Uncontrolled dumping is wide-
spread.  People spread uncovered refuse over nearby low-lying areas including
roads. The few surface drains that exist are frequently blocked by solid
waste. The Municipal Roads Department has only four garbage collection trucks
and is unable to meet existing needs.  About 20 percent of the city's total
population is not being served at all; in the remaining areas, the frequency
of collection varies from about once a week to once a month. The existing
procedures are inadequate and represent a danger to public health. The
proposed project includes a study that will suggest an improved organization
for solid waste collection and disposal.
Storm Drainage
34.       Three cities in Benin have a storm drainage system:  Cotonou,
Porto Novo and Parakou. The storm drainage system in Cotonou which totals
about 23 km was constructed during the mid-1960s and serves a portion of the
western part of Cotonou, while the recently settled left bank section of the
city has no drainage. The three major open channels of the west bank have a
total length of about 5 km. The remainder of the system consists mostly of
underground drains which feed into these channels. These in turn discharge
into the dredged channel which connects the inland lake Nokoue with the
sea and divides the city into its eastern and western areas. The flow in the
existing drainage system is impeded by solid waste, sand, as well as abundant
growth of vegetation in the open channels. Moreover, the existing concrete
channel lining is severely damaged. The drainage problem in Cotonou is very
difficult because the city is only two to three meters above sea level with
many low-lying areas. Sometimes, flooding in the western section is severe,
and in the eastern section, i.e. the left bank, highly polluted storm water
levels can rise up to half a meter above the ground. The proposed project
includes a drainage study to assess alternative solutions and to develop an
investment program with due consideration to public health, engineering,
operational and economic aspects.
Urban Planning
35.       The difficulties in providing adequate infrastructure in Cotonou
are compounded by the fact that no urban development plan exists for the
development of this city which, by choice of both Government and the private
sector, is destined to continue growing at a rate which is above average for
cities even in countries having similar rural/urban ratios. Lack of a coher-
ent planning framework and comprehensive technical studies, compounded by
inadequate mapping documents and insufficient staffing of planning agencies,



- 10 -
has allowed ad-hoc extension of urban development to areas sometimes subject
to flooding, resulting in costly development. It is evident that an urban
plan is necessary, not only to provide for economic development of infrastruc-
ture, but indeed to avoid occupation of areas which it may never be economical
to equip with adequate infrastructure. The proposed project would provide for
preparation of an urban structure plan to serve as a guide to urban development
in Cotonou over the next ten years. It would include the formulation of a
coherent public investment program on the basis of the urban development plan
and the drainage and water supply waster plans. Detailed maps for the Cotonou
region would be drawn up to allow effective preparation of the proposed plans.
Studies of urban management would also be carried out focusing on both techni-
cal and planning agencies for efficient delivery of services, and for better
physical planning and monitoring of urban development.
Public Health
36.       The incidence of intestinal and parasitic diseases is high through-
out the country. However, no reliable statistics on specific water-borne and
sanitation-related diseases exist. The most frequently observed water-related
diseases are: amoebiasis, malaria, various diarrheas, dysenteries and parasitic
infections directly attributable to environmental deficiencies. Cholera is
endemic principally in the south of the country; riverblindness is concentrated
in the northern state of Mono. The proposed project includes financing for
the preparation of a pilot health education program for Cotonou which should
provide guidance to its population for efficient use of water and sanitation
facilities.
Sector Institutions
37.       Four ministries (Planning; Industry, Mining and Energy - MIME;
Public Works, Construction and Housing - MPWCH; and Public Health - MPH) are
involved in the planning, development and provision of water supply/sanitation
and health services. Several other agencies are also active in the sector:
the Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE), for power and urban water
supply; the Hydraulics Department of MPWCH, for development of water resources;
the Municipal Road Departments (MRD), for urban sanitation and urban road
construction and maintenance; and the Societe Nationale de Gestion Immobiliere
(SONAGIM), under MPWCH, for urban planning and housing development. The two
principal project executing agencies, SBEE and MRD are discussed below (para.
38 to 43). A review of the sector and of these agencies indicate that the
principal constraints which hinder development are: (i) lack of long-term or
even medium-term planning and lack of data to support such planning; (ii) the
need to review sector organization, especially arrangements for carrying out
rural water supply programs; (iii) inadequate budget provisions, especially
for recurrent costs (only for MRD); (iv) shortage of qualified personnel and
absence of training programs; and (v) the need for a hygiene education program
to optimize impact of investments on health, and encourage public participation
in the construction and maintenance of village water supply facilities.
38.       Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE) was legally estab-
lished in 1973 as a national enterprise which plans, constructs, operates and
maintains power and urban water supply facilities throughout the country. It



- 11 -
has a Board of Directors and seven functional departments (operations, elec-
tricity, water, administration, commercial, accounting and budgets, and civil
engineering services). SBEE is a fairly well organized public utility, con-
scious of giving good services to its consumers, and with competent key person-
nel in both water and power functions; however, at middle and lower levels,
there are many vacancies. The German aid agency (GTZ) is currently providing
a training program for SBEE's technicians and semi-professional staff. The
proposed project provides for scholarships and additional training for SBEE's
professional staff.
s            39.        The Municipal Roads Department of Cotonou, which is primarily
responsible for road construction and maintenance, is also in charge of
maintaining the storm drainage system, garbage collection, emptying of septic
tanks, and operation and maintenance of the water standpipes.  About 70
percent of its 400 employees work in the above mentioned areas. As the
Municipal Roads Department has been carrying out its various responsibilities
to a limited extent only, the drainage study financed under the proposed
project would analyze its performance in detail and suggest appropriate
institutional alternatives for Cotonou's drainage and sanitation operations.
Financial Performance of Sector Institutions
40.       For FY79/80, SBEE's revenues from electricity sales were CFAF 2.0
billion (US$8.5 million), and from water sales CFAF 0.7 billion (US$3.0
million), according to preliminary figures. SBEE billed 8.3 million cubic
meters of water; the number of water customers was about 10,400 at the end of
June 1980, including 6,500 in Cotonou. Total revenues exceeded cash operating
expenses plus debt service. The operating ratio for FY79/80 was 63 percent.
Long-term debt was only CFAF 1.4 billion (US$6.0 million) at the end of
FY78/79, and the relation of debt to equity was 24:76. Debt service amounted
to CFAF 155 million (US$0.7 million). The debt service coverage ratio was
about 6.
41.       SBEE's cash position has been weakened by slow collection of custo-
mer arrears, especially from the Government. The total of water and power
customer accounts amounted to CFAF 1.4 billion (US$6.0 million) for the
Government and CFAF 1.38 billion (US$5.9 million) for private customers at
the end of June 1980, equalling about 18 and 7 months of billing respectively.
Government has agreed under the proposed project to pay arrears owed to SBEE
for water and electricity consumption by Government departments services, and
agencies, in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). The proposed plan would be
submitted to the Association for review no later than March 31, 1982 following
completion of the planned financial studies (para. 42). The Government has
also agreed that in future, its entities would pay to SBEE, within not
more than four months after billing, all charges for water and electricity
consumption, and would present to Government their proposals for budgetary
appropriations to cover such charges on the basis of consumption levels during
the current fiscal year and estimates of consumption increases (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Sections 4.02 (a) and (b)).



- 12 -
42.       SBEE's annual financial statements are reviewed by Government audi-
tors; however, these reviews have been limited in scope and depth. Therefore,
the proposed project includes financial studies, including an audit of SBEE's
FY80/81 accounts and a review of accounting procedures and financial controls.
Thereafter, annual audits of SBEE-s accounts would continue to be carried out
by independent accountants acceptable to the Association (draft Project
Agreement, Section 4.03).
43.       The operating expenses of Cotonou's Municipal Roads Department are
paid through the budgets of the six districts of the city; all employees of the
Municipal Roads Department are carried on the payrolls of the districts. The
Municipal Roads Department does not have an autonomous budget, except for minor
revenues from the emptying of septic tanks, which are used for the purchase of
spare parts and other supplies. Expansion of the Department's operations to
match growth of the city has been hampered by lack of funds. The proposed
project would provide for studies to improve institutional and financial
arrangements for services currently performed by the Municipal Roads Department.
Tariffs
44.       The water tariff was increased to CFAF 80 (USd34) per m3, effective
July 1, 1979, and is applied countrywide. 1/ The charge to homeowners for the
emptying of septic tanks is around CFAF 5000 (US$21) per truckload in Cotonou.
There is no tariff policy yet regarding drainage and solid waste collection.
A water and sanitation tariff study would be financed under the proposed Credit.
Government and SBEE have provided assurances that, depending on recommendations
of the proposed tariff study, water tariffs would be revised as necessary in
consultation with IDA; until implementation of such a tariff revision, SBEE and
Government would take all necessary measures (including if necessary increases
of the water tariffs) to ensure covering of cash operating expenses of the
water supply operation and meeting debt service requirements (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.03, and draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02 (c)).
Bank Group Role and Strategy
45.       The proposed Engineering Credit would be the Association's first ope-
ration in the water supply and sanitation sector in Benin. The Bank Group
objectives, other than addressing urgent basic needs, are to contribute to the
Government's efforts to define coordinated and coherent policies and strategies,
and to help build viable sector institutions. At present, there are no long-
range strategies for these sectors. The overwhelming concern of the Government
is the precarious water and sanitation situation in Cotonou, and particularly
the drainage problem. The continuing unplanned growth of the city compounds
the problem. While the priority works component to be financed under the pro-
posed project will address immediate needs, the studies, as well as preparation
of follow-up projects, would help define and implement long-range sector objec-
tives and strategies. The proposed studies will suggest viable institutional
set-ups for the sewerage and drainage subsectors; the water subsector will be
strengthened through implementation of a training program for SBEE's staff, and
through recommendations arising from the financial and tariff studies.
1/   Average water tariffs in other West African countries are (US4 per m3
equivalents): Cameroon: 50, Senegal: 48, Guinea: 38.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Cotonou - The Project Area
46.       Cotonou, with 350,000 inhabitants (1979 estimate) is the largest
city in Benin. Because of its rapid growth in importance as the center of
economic life in the country, the Government over the past few years has moved
many of the ministries to Cotonou from the official capital city of Porto
Novo. Most international organizations represented in Benin, embassies, and
*           the head offices of the largest companies are located in Cotonou.  The recent
opening of a new bridge providing access to Cotonou from Lagos and of a major
market-place near the bridge, as well as expansion of the deep-water port in
Cotonou (partly financed by the Association under Credit 826-BEN), will help
develop and consolidate Cotonou's role as a major regional center of commerce
and transit.
47.       In October 1979, the Government requested the Association to finance
a large urban infrastructure project for Cotonou covering the water/sanita-
tion, power and urban sectors. However, the absence of project preparation
and urban planning made it impossible for the Association to consider such a
project immediately; it was agreed that the Association would first proceed
with this priority works and engineering project.
48.       A Bank Group mission visited Cotonou in April 1980 to identify the
possible scope and components of the proposed project. The water and sanita-
tion components, including the priority works, were further analyzed in detail
during a WHO mission in June 1980 under the Bank/WHO Cooperative Program.
Also in June 1980, a Bank urban specialist visited Cotonou to assist in
preparation of draft terms of reference for the urban studies. The project
was appraised in November 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in April
1981 with a Beninese delegation led by the General Manager of Societe Beninoise
d'Eau et d'Electricite. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report. Annex
III contains supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be:  (i) to
provide relief to the most urgent water and sanitation needs in Cotonou; and
(ii) to finance studies which would examine long-term solutions (using low-cost
technology) to Cotonou's water, sanitation and urban problems; prepare specific
projects for possible financing by the Bank Group and other lenders; suggest
4f          appropriate institutional arrangements; and determine alternative sources of
revenue for the water/sanitation sector. The project also provides for
formulation of a health education program aimed at encouraging better use of
water/sanitation facilities, and for design and implementation of a training
program for professional staff of SBEE.



- 14 -
50.       The project would include:
(a) Priority Works
(i)  construction of 4 water wells, including provision of pumps
and related equipment;
(ii)  rehabilitation and extension of the distribution system into
the poorer areas of Cotonou, including 82 km of pipeline,
30 standpipes and 17 fire hydrants;
(iii)  cleaning of existing drains and construction of 14 culverts;
(iv)  purchase of 2 dumptrucks, 1 mechanical shovel, 2 suction
trucks and 1 solid waste collection truck.
(b) Studies
(i)  updating of the water supply master plan, and preparation
of feasibility studies, detailed engineering and bidding
documents for a first stage water supply construction program;
(ii)  preparation of a drainage master plan, and feasibility studies,
detailed engineering and bidding documents for a first stage
construction program;
(iii)  preparation of a sanitation (sewerage and solid waste) master
plan, together with engineering studies and bidding documents
for a first-stage construction program;
(iv)  aerial photographs and preparation of detailed maps for the
Cotonou region;
(v)  urban development plan, including formulation of an urban
investment program;
(vi)  water/sanitation tariff study, including assessment of alterna-
tive modes for financing of house and yard connections;
(vii)  financial studies concerning SBEE, including review of SBEE's
accounting systems and procedures and its internal controls;
audit of its 1980/81 financial statements; review of cost
accounting with emphasis on separation of accounts for water
and power operations; review of the financial planning and
budgetary control systems; assistance in implementation of
the proposed improvements; and evaluation of training needs of
the financial and accounting staff;
(viii) pilot plan for health education; and
(xi) training program for SBEE-s professional staff.
Project implementation is expected to commence in the second half of 1981 and
to be completed by the end of 1984.



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project (net of taxes and duties from which
the project would be exempt) is estimated at US$6.3 million equivalent, of
which US$5.0 million in foreign exchange (about 80 percent) to be financed by
the proposed Credit. Cost estimates are based on March 1981 prices, taking
into account similar operations recently implemented by SBEE and the Munici-
pality, and consultancy contracts awarded in Western African countries over
the past year. Costs for consulting services (about 190 man-months in total)
average US$10,000 monthly, including reimbursable costs such as travel and
subsistence. Physical contingencies ranging from 10 to 15 percent have been
included for all items. Average price contingencies of about 10 percent per
year have also been applied throughout the project implementation period based
on expected annual increases in international prices for foreign cost items,
and on country-specific inflation estimates for local cost items.
Onlending Arangements
52.       The Government would onlend US$2.8 million equivalent of the Credit
proceeds to SBEE for 20 years including a five-year grace period,
at 9.6 percent per annum to finance the foreign exchange cost of the project
items to be executed by the SBEE (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03 (a)). The local cost component of this portion of the project
(US$950,000 equivalent) would be financed by SBEE. The Government would
provide a contribution of US$350,000 equivalent to cover the local cost of the
other components of the project which would be executed by several public
agencies (para. 54). The Government would also bear the foreign exchange risk
of the Credit. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and SBEE, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 6.01 (b)).
Retroactive Financing
53.       Retroactive financing of up to US$50,000 equivalent is recommended
to cover the aerial photographic survey of the Cotonou region which needs to
be done during the current dry season and before preparation of master plan
studies (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1).
Project Execution
54.       SBEE would be responsible for construction of the water wells and
for improvements to the water distribution system. Engineering plans and
bidding documents for these components have been prepared by SBEE and reviewed
by IDA. The Cotonou Municipal Roads Department would, under the supervision
of SBEE, rehabilitate the existing storm drainage system, construct culverts,
and purchase vehicles for construction and solid waste and sludge collection.
The water, sanitation and urban studies, as well as aerial photography and
mapping work would be implemented by consulting firms under the supervision of
SBEE and the Ministry of Public Works. Terms of reference and shortlist of
consultants have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable, and most contracts



- 16 -
are expected to be awarded between October 1981 and March 1982. The pilot
plan for health education would be monitored by the Ministry of Health. The
water/sanitation and urban studies are expected to be carried out by a single
consulting firm, or a joint venture of two firms, in order to insure optimal
coordination. Staff of SONAGIM, a recently created Government agency in the
urban sector, would participate in carrying out the urban development study,
which would give it the opportunity to upgrade its competence in urban
planning.
Procurement                                                                                 4
55.       Supplies for the four wells and the 82 km of water distribution
system would be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Civil works estimated at about US$570,000
equivalent--being part of the local contribution--would essentially be carried
out by SBEE, with a minor part done by the Cotonou Municipal Roads Department.
Consultants for the studies component would be selected in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. The six vehicles for the Municipal Roads Department
estimated at about US$625,000 would be of the same make as the already existing
fleet of about twenty vehicles, in order to keep spare parts standardized and
to facilitate maintenance. Vehicles would be purchased on the basis of formal
quotations from at least three local and/or foreign suppliers (Schedule 3 of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
56.       Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of
the cost of consultant services, and in the case of equipment, materials and
vehicles, against 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs or, if purchased
locally, 90 percent of local exenditures, representing the estimated foreign
exchange component. Proceeds would be allocated as follows: (i) consultant
services for the water, sanitation and urban studies, aerial photographic
survey and mapping work, health education plan, and training (US$3,000,000);
(ii) equipment and supplies for the water and sanitation priority works and
purchase of service vehicles (US$1,600,000); and (iii) unallocated (US$400,000).
Disbursements would be fully documented.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The priority works component of the proposed project would bring
relief to the most urgent problems of water distribution and sanitation in
Cotonou.  Water production capacity would be increased to a level sufficient
for the next three to four years. Water distribution would be improved
and extended to low-income areas of Cotonou not yet served. Drainage would be
improved in urban areas which at present are frequently flooded by polluted
storm water. Collection of solid waste and emptying of septic tank sludge--
services which at present are below minimum needs--would be strengthened and
extended.
58.       The studies component would include preparation of a first stage
construction project in the water/sanitation sector for possible Bank Group



- 17 -
financing. The studies would become the basis for rational urban development
of Cotonou; they would chart the necessary extensions of the water distribu-
tion and drainage systems, and the first stage of a sewerage system. They
would also make proposals for appropriate institutional and financial arrange-
ments in the water/sanitation and urban sectors.
59.       The project faces no significant risks.  Detailed terms of reference
for studies have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. The Government is
keenly interested in the project, and has given high priority to its prompt
implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between SBEE and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of Credit effectiveness would be the execu-
tion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and SBEE with terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 52).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1981



18 _                                     Annex 1
pop. I
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV4ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - HOST RECENT ESTIHATE)-
TOTAL            112.6
AGRICULTURAL      33. 0                               MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE IC0IME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE fb  AFRICA SOUTH oF SAHAPA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GHP PER CAPITA (US$)                  90.0       120.0     250.0                260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     39.0        42.0       56.0                 80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
OPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      2. 1         2.6       3.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.5         12.6      14.0                 17.3                    29.q
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        15.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                       19.0        23.0      29.0                 27.4                    61.7 7
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND     62.0        77.0      97.0                 82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.2        44.9      46.0                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                        53.2        52.6      51.3                 52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.6         2.5       2.7                  2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.6       2.8                  2.7                    2. 7
URBAN                              6.0         5.5       4.2                  6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0        49.0       49.0                 47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0         22.0      19.0                 19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.3          3.3       3.3                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         95.0       101.0      92.0                 91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  93.0         96. 0     98. 0                90. 2                  92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.0        53.0       51.0                 53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       14.0        15.0      13.0                 18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        32.0       27.0                27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        42.0      46.0                 45.3                    50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         206.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       20.0                 23.2                    31.0
URBAN                              ..          ..       42.0                 58.0                    66.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       16.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         14.0       ..                 28.9
URBAN                              ..        83.0        ..                 67.0
RURAL                              ..          1.50
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        47000.0    28920.0  26908.0                30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      2910.0   3007.0                 5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            748.0      847.0      736.0              1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                              ..          ..      209.0                  ..                      ..
RURAL                              ..          ..    3876.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                     30.2      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SUZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



-19  -                                                Annex 1
Page 2
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS LATA SHEET
BENIN                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVE9ACFO
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
HOST RECENT             LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOT1H OF SAPARA  AFPICA 50UTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT fATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  26.0          40.0       58.0                   5 7. 7                     61.7
MALE                   38.0         56.0        80.0                   74.2                       69.2
FEMALE                 15.0         25.0        37.0                   54. 1                      51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    2.0           5.0       11.0                   10.0                       20.6
MALE                    2.0          8.0        16.0                   13.7                       29.2
ENMALE                  1.0          3.0         6.0                    7.1                       14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  13.0              4. 1       2. 1                    6.0                       7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              41.0          44.0       48.0                   45.2                       36.6
SECONDARY                            23.0          26.0       31.0                   25.2                       24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            8.I           ..        ..                    25. 5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0           4. 0       5.4                    3.6                       38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           12.0          32. 0      48.0                   31. 5                      83. 5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..            ..        0. 1                   1. 
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      2.0          1.0        0. 3                   4. 6                      24. 2
CINEISA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2             0.4         ..                     ..                        0 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        1048.9        1285.7    1530.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     45. 1        44.9        44.9                   33. 5                      38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                54.0          49.7       47.0                   80.7                       54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    8.9          11. 0     46.0                     8.1                       17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   51.2         49.0       46.4                   42.2                       38.8
MALE                                    57.1         54.9       51.0                   55. 1                      40.4
FEMALE                                 45.5          43.3       42.1                   29.5                       29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9          1. 0       1. 2                    1. 2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCEtSE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31. 4/c
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51. 7/c
LCWESI 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 5/c
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.8/c
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..            ..         ..                  138. 2
RURAL                                                         8 * * 4.0              86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                  107.0
RURAL                                  *             *        82.0                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  *             ..       55. 0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
s                                                                      N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countrEes
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Population.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 19800



- 2P -                                                        ~~~ANNE  I
Page 3
DIPIITtflWS OP SOC0KI IND5ICATORS
1400..:  Although thu detu.r  frees         ..o. ecorose gnruly judged the men .uthtet.tioo  sod oliablo, it ehuld also b. toted tou  they my not be  teno-
catio..ully cos...ebie h....   f the luck of steodsrditsd dotnttor ...o.d Ico...pte ued by differeot rCuotrIes totoiot    the date. The date  c, o.
th.1e...s., ucful to deecrih  old"r  of epitude. iodicete creds, and oh-reteotee certain oJor dlffer.....  bato.... couc.Ier..
The,rfernc  troupe at  (I) the  t.  cutry groP of the subject tocotry ud (2) s  outo  group cith scoerht higloor -verus  ino-  thur thu cotoo  trout
oft sujctcutry (ecet,fo  'Capital fuoplus00 Oil               o       It.r . gop obor  "Middle leco_  Noth Africa end Middle tut"ichose  he_uos  of stoL- t
ect-ctrlsfiitte.   in thx reforen   gino  duca tho s-ro         . Ppuano, oigho-d  rnhtteaoOoach  odio-tor end eho- only e. at
lsuetWolf  f the ..ou. ttoi   ins trc hu  duta for  htha  tidionro.  fI.os thu  ooog  of  -cnoteis aes the indi--or  dryods Io the rliaiihlity of
data uc  jonotun.ifo.-. reuion bust be sosroiod inosltiop urou    f on  todi..oo  to  ntnr   Th..                      ...     ccly  . ocful io -op-ro  nth  -01c
of cc. todic_to  at notie earg the routry cod re sco-   fOu
Lois kP.  (chouceod eq b-.)                                                             foruiton coo rhoscocec - fpulutton  outut  by tostoo  00 practitan psy-
T-no  - tota1 lsuface ure   -,roi.tng  Wd u-oeaad tolatad vut.os.                        eltiee qoliflod Iron eedioul school at unineceity I- o
uAticolt-Io  - te-t.nt  of agrulncoel Los  uos -d st-poc*rll  or- OsOiy                Polto P.r Mitosins P'4o-    Fplto   ided b~.y xh o  pratttioa.
too c-p. P.  ous,  sur -.sa sod kscchoo eodo         to ha Cello,; 1yydsu              al   sd0enl   reun f I _    rese  Pru .iJu  ote,ed esioat  netee..
GfF PIR CAPITA lUit) - GOP p.  caPote osni-oss                          .... ube   ots   .. cx-  urbse.n. rrl d ivided by n,'bns    -.pet to   e   f hepoa  bod
-uleosdby sen  con-oio  -shod es Wo itluok  ni   (1977-79 baste); i900,                 ere1ibla to pobltr ad priocto  asru1 sod eportlisod Ox-Pitalsd 
19'S. sd 1979dnte.                                                                      habilitanioc osonoos.  Rooinsle arc eablishusts pseucesotly stffd
INJeCY c0ysUnoPTo  FtP CAPITA - A-ooul ...neuaPtion of cosuriu1l...ogy (coo                byIsn louse on  pbyeicien.  Btstbtl.hesoo   P poi4ieg Prinnipally tctodai
c-    _ r  too itoclded.  ural. hospinst   hoou *-.   t-olds helnb sad .sdicel
edligrits. ctoen   uue  eec ud hydoo..-.. uo-e  end sothor.l elec-                    cetr   x   onasoysa edb     bscao(u  ya.dts   esnn
toiictoy) in kWlogra  of coolI oquirelet per ..pita; 196h, 1970,  n  197                arsadi  .eo)eiho  oicpteteosdto   o   rvd
dana.                                                             lisi~~~~1.tod ..eogs of ecdioal fecpitloe.   Fo   ttsla   orosuhshot
Total P-PHIMI-B-                                                  h.1.~~~~~~~~~~~al  seclde WNeV potac otal geso bt a     pofcte-lloshaspitaI, ad  corel
PopULatLion `Es yyT'. STAT-ISTI-C Bheiu.  oa   rrrlheiossdmdolsdetoiyo-te
Totl Pouotio. Wri-oo (sil11ioxe..    Aof July 1; 19sf, 1970. ued i975              dtsue00Oeia  a      oe   osco   dlsost   rdahre
Orben Pooul..xio . Irooso  of!total)  R- uic of u-bso no total populanion;b,  f   d
df sra   detlniti    Id of -ubecrse   esy fsIlent  o...rbilt', of dat-pg
eat  cootorce; 1960, 1970. end 1970 den.tAoaote   fMusbl  oouopr  oehl)-ttl.chx   n   ot
total PoPulation by .go ood se  endhbir e-rosioy u-d furoility ....e.          .      dtufntall  fo   s       bunto dcu  proe. d.           .    ii84 t.
tug life oopecxu..y at birth iuo.aoaio  rOth coutry's- parcp`iet iO-                br  fPros  0  o,Iaaluhc,s    uu  ncpo    netoa
lstel  end telI     ieepouc   tabillitna at 77.5 7oare.  Tie Falb-                  dela,r.pcvsy                  ellos  ..lde I I c-picou4n  eatoocxoo  s
oeer  frI erni.ty roe  lo  ov   bra  ssl  ustne  dtlo  i                        uootpi   uos
ftotilityo..c..d;eg no in-  levelw an _et faty   lci- efosnc.                      u          dot  P---.t  leon   idolinl-  co.ub. o   oe 
ah tou Ytry Is - -bonsegad oneof  bsa  nle  -oabieation  of mooa.lint            Cnecou   olsesoe   loott  i                     .t liio  -uarn. -  pretg
ordta fertlty         I  tredsfo  trojoot`n pxrpoe is  oh.i      ot   1.             f sot1, urba, aod  -1ro  dwlliogeoeepactively.
the btttb oats Is q,-J to tho daatb out, abd ala  thu ass  -n-o-tUoA re-
_L..  _oteaet.  Thie ie  ohisoed oely  ft.er flrtilityrao  declet                Adustoosutats
ufoxs  osPi.o  itet  ucnly.  ibs snuefuoury poptaletion etes yo.rlLao  of_ale                                tthu pof=er  levl es parceetoe of ooPattie
osiinted on hu  eet  of thu Poojeoted tbar iotuietso  of thu popolanion14
hr teYear 2000, and th. rts of detilts  of fertility rats to r-plu_-                 poiser   eosolepopxlaion; erlly toluda chIdre  ags  6-1l
I_aj                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yeeoe bux edjusond fordffuen   soths of promary edccuton  for
Year ottiooaoo poneultion is -sabed - The your rhe  etotsonar  ppraLeico                 so-tet. O   th pup iseshbno  ebore =1   s oionlel    .4 etho    ego.  ,
steo hue been oxoohed.                                         Pocon-darn etbuol - not  . enla aed  lat      Cenpucd -  above; sa-odar
FonxlucbonPhnsixyP-                                                                 educa-..  10  bI..)  f  tion reqot-utan`leat four Feoe of  ppoored oruay   erotin
tonal ar.uxlyo                                                                                   Yi-oi   aso age;  oovepnentcar    aemoal
FoPe.  he.  on 1iou ..uruL.is   - Coopend ba.  b     o e ritutot  elland                 aldod.f
Outtlaron use  nouctos (ournt) - CIldren  0-la pare), ahIeg-oo  (15-     soludonechetol, indsorisi,or otbrtprofo   eblpbopaS,tsindeia
Oh yo-s)  end retire  (65 yer   doeo   sprate   fod-.oP                                  dently or ax depons cf e-onA." itst.totn-
lat In; 1960, 1970, -od 1978 dana.                                                     Iuc-uce  Iutiu-o,:         r.adseMdr  -Ttletdeesooldi
Porolocon lrenr baeIllol-ccl- snu   vec   ee  o   os  06                               ou     aId eeoonday level  divtded by osbers of tubr  in nhc
puopp "ets   c  19104, 140-70.1 so  1970-PS.                                   corospandio  lvis..
Povoaltion Cot-r  Wae  aroenl-t db -_r~ - Ades1u pooch reto  of uohu  p0p0-              Adult litur-y rate loerce..c) - Li tarat  edults lble no rea  an  nine)
lotin  for -1150-60. 1960-7d~I1978 7,                                                    - a par-etafe of total adult poplulaico aed 15 years anWvr
Clode ttrtb ea.e (our choee - Adeul ltvo booths per theeo a..           sudof
Poptlstien; 1940. 1970, ..d 1978 dto. .floff'nis
Crxde oath Sane (toe tbnaaad) - uAoux  danhe per ohttau.d of nid-os ...uesescoa Car . cs.   thousd co-l.tco  -                                .uago loo  nPa:Laau moor
pnptlniso;1940   190an  1979 dta.cac  esxnt                                                   le  than etht PareTo  ouc1udes sbulbo1o, h--oe  an
he-a-I  orooioperiod if obb aputisnoa  presast uoo-s.e.t. to fsr                    ellixery veofhicle.
tIlltycexte;usxuly lie-yea   voee  abdo9s l  1960, 1970. -    l,                        ...ado  ...etvote (g.0I  pbIuocdy-oltho - 0.11.  plti-e  o  rnovsr  foroud
F-ill !l   %El, A-I   th.--")t- AaE-rI  oen  t gourl  oblc  artbosutdif-oplofco -Pt.d..olO
ftIbd_al          iIotr.Mu   oosoe       utu   trn   cetr                             c..-a  r          ieroec rounte  ood In year  eb  "oit-atoo  of redi  soa
orbobonrldviaudoaeie  of  ni-P                 1      ETalyoce   PoI- o.    .       ea   teffect; date for ou-t y0s0* esy ac  be coeperblu sis-  men
fasul rlaslaa- bae icocu   of a        h serin  sn b- "-Prctag   xlsrie            oaora  aohe   ienta
Frs  of  bs-beuola  ag  (1145        er)  h   s   oohcnctfoiec                        F, .teciter  (co  ibteud=     tlpoton  - TV roicore foo                IIocat
allario   sa    .ts-  use groop.                                                       senuvl public nor theusoo  Populectun;  -acidetunienn  TV o-tI-e
rOot) ANt OUTITI0Ie                                                                        ic  oo _tre ..  A.d in pY-r  rhcroi trto   of yr  sn  rs to olbtn.
produticoof al foo  cdiies.Frodotionsorldee sen p od lendt  - 1           to,oIIIiygnrl ceennecppr,defnda. periodic  albos-
to ancaena  yea  hsbie.  C.-ditlee  core  potaury soode (u.5. tt.-Ot                   to hr 'doily" if It eppeare  on  .est ifour tou  asset
I.e... o1f~ suul)tich  re edible and  -onIt  cotrietne (e.g.acOT    e                 itauna   cauc   0   eoofrte-uo    nten oo
eaoxl S.ea   ptoAduoe  inc  otebt; 1961.65, .17h.Y- 1u978 dun..I    bl-i.
xurgy eqivalent of  to foodsppieaaabto  oetry pr  sPLtta                        1      FOC
Per day. Av-il.ble supplioso.     rs  d     tinei  prd.ao= , loporte I.e.          otlLbor Poc  too-          d(-Oootclyatv  poreoca. iaudiag
euprre  en  cho0e   -ostck   ret ouela  aldn aulfed-             ad,            td  forseen  uapoy`    utooLAoe  bce t,vo    tndn.,co
quttiteeuad it-fod proo....Ioa, an  I.se.e is dietoibuti-n  bequtr-              D.f  ition. ovuc  c-ocosaenc               -oprble; 19b0, 1970 end
ast  wr  oosted by PAD band on physio1ojital ends for aoIlI=       s          1970 dat..
ecudu  d-inobotioc of  ppeeto.  ndelosia Ii Percat fo tot    ec.                   Aeicluo  (bcot)-L               forc  Is f-rongfoetylste en
hu..eehold leve; 1961-65, 1970, end 1977 dan.tfsia.opretg  o   ca.eo   oc;190   90ed17   aa
Per cnto  ucolyof oote   (are  cooduo) - LPoti oontat of Pa. cepita     Oxduety (ourcat) - isbor force Ixsua.cstcio. sioooiatotcur_f-          Io
cot rppip  f fod perday,ten sopl fofoud Ie doflnud us shun.  R-          end                --ticr.oue   n   ue   sooa oo  tona  Iob tr 0004iO,
quir-t-ec  for.11 co-ties entbliebnd by iSDA provide f0 or  1n-                      1970 and 1070 der.I.b    f                                             1 .
albonsuc  of AU-o  of toctal prototn per day and20pEa-  of eolaa  .-A             rerticloraionbe (reocc-c) - cocel. sal., ud ft-el  - FertictoiatinO
Pc  lsepotoico.of hbich 10 Eloo  shouldbo ecla  prtin. 2Tbeea  tnnd-                 ecioyrteoccpue  esttl   l,adfeaelbrtre
soeo   oe   b  those of 75 gras o  totalooni so   3 gra  of d               PI            f..f i    PIt-o
an-a  pro     b-M    .t.Thl-tei  seenavroe  fcc the  rIld, Poop ..nd by  ooto M hid 19rcoooe  of70  toal ale sad- fele p .p -ieticoo  ltesg   raetiey
Orold Fo  toooey   161-g 1970 au  1977 daca.190  1970, -od lof dc. PPIi..    -  ibse   r   icsprIobodeiu  rata  el
P.c ccoic. roccoic boply f! -s olal oo  puls  - Pctetoi eupply of food do-             tg-s   tncoeo   h.opat.ndlnit tsed   A Ion set-
crd9Irnotueedoleei   r    e   a;101-65, 1970  -c  1977 dec.. Ioui Psoodec  Rtio -   tIc  fppltc   oeri                                           5udo
Child (anne 1-u) Otortolity Rate (cur tbctaeandl - uanaal datbe per thoosee  ix  tc the total taboo forte.
age".. orrup  -u  o , to children Is thie oge urop; f. orme  dorelopio  ou--
itise datado-i-d fro  lit. r   blee; 1960. 1970 cad 1977 data..                          UDSTI~TO
uouiscPcaeso  PtseOco  (botPh i  cat sod kid) - Raotd by richeec
Life fococtacyU atOto  (eas    A- Avsoa   xt0- of peac  of lifo osoioix                  I  ern.orot fpren   oret2   aco,ed poo... dO parent
ec birth; 0060  1971 an(Y7dao                                                          of ho-eholte.
Ixfatoo tslt oate hrs  thoon) - unexal ducts of tefate ud.r Po oa               OVERTY yARGET GtOUPS
of opt I0 oh.uoo  1ourshithsOtisted Absolnt. P-crc IT                                                               c  La-     (01Sprt"io-uhe    dcrl-
canhr ofprope Ctnai.ochn, sd coal)  lob  aaruhlearc-s toeafo          notonionllycdoqnto  iet  lo  eeantal  00-fodf         rqed itAbi to
oeoso suPPly ("I'lle  creatd surf-ac  ontere or c txtd hut  --tnnl-tnd                 sfroodblc.
race  eahasthatIloo  proterted hbohole.:  apoing. end  -nit.ry ve1s) as              tetiJsansl  lon   oecylo   oa (Dip -oo. c-neit               aeasd )
P_orc.otoge  if their repococco populations  . O  en ure  ala a pobliu                 suu!oln tepeoc  ccI-  Levl,                n-br   feoaspocpt
fooao  reedpcet Il...oed xot moo rhao 200 ester  fren a h-.ue oa   o            poenl n         of ch.    acp   Otanlee  i           1-otn  f. co  teoxa
Access to Oucocca hisoostl lonocoot cI ucculatior - cotel urben ad~~~~~~~~~~~I   I.;l   ,hdi.
000.1 - fliahur o  tot  . urhac, and rural). servedI by dancreon4
diePoe... I ccrcP oo-onee of checrepecoepopoloxiooo.  t-cotc  die-                                                   Oco-ol  en -oi.1 Dsta Dto-loto
pir pricier erd sinc1-  Oo-11lltocoe.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                            Page 4
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                                                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (CURRENT PRICES, IN 7)
US$ Million      / of CDP                                                             1975-80
GNP at Market Prices                             1,145.7            103.0                                                                16.2
ODP at Market Pricea                             1,112.4            100.0                                                                16.1
Gross Domestic Investmeat                          271.4             24.4                                                               24.0
Gross Domestic Saving                               50.9              4.6
Current Account Balance                           -124.8            -11.2
Exports (0 + NFS)                                  306.1             27.5                                                                16.2
Imports (C + NFS)                                  526.7            47.3                                                                14.8
OUTPUT' LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980                                      Value Added                              Labor Force                         Value Added per Worker
TJS$Million             _             Thousand                        I          US$
Agriculture                                        430.4                43.1              906                         55.7          475.0                        77.2
Industry, Construction and
Public Works                                    118.6                11.8               52                          3.2        2,280.7                      370.7
Government                                         119.0                11.8                72                         4.4        1,652.8                      268.6
Conmerce and Transport                             298.0                29.8              597                         36.7          499.2                       81.1
Other Services                                      34.8                 3. 5
GDP at Factor Cost                        1,000.8               100.0             1,627                       100.0          615.2                       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(CFAF Billion)                              X of GDP
1980                    1975-78
Current Receipts                                       34.5                       14.8                      16.3
Current Expenditures                                   35.3                       15.1                      14.0
Current Surplus                                         0.8                        0.0                       2.3
Capital Expenditures                                   30.2                       13.0                      10.9
External Debt Disbursements (gross)                    21.4                        9.2                       5.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973          1974           1975          1976           1977          1978         1979          1980  I/
(Billion CFAF Outstanding End Period)
Mosey and Quasi Money                              14.79         18.45           31.86         30.63         34.91         39.01         45.67          41.25
Rank Credit to Public Sector                       -1.16         -2.42           -2.95         -2.30         -6.13         -4.92         -7.30        -10.97
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      12.73         16.45           32.60         32.10         37.60         45.10         59.40         73.45
Percentage or Indes Number)
Money and Quasi Money as 7 of GDP                   ..           17.1            28.2          23.5          23.5          22.8          22.7           17.6
General Price Index (1974 . 100)                   89.6         100.0           114.7         124.1         136.3         145.6         160.4          177.9
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                               1.4          11.6           14.7           8.1            9.8           6.8          10.2          10.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  -127.5         -108.6          -21.9         -89.0         -66.5           24.6         -48.4          50.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    22.3          29.2           9F.2           -1.5          12.1          19.9          31.7          23.6
1/ As of end June 1980
Note.    All conversions to dollars in. this table are at the exchange rates noted on the following page.
.. not available.
March 26, 1981



-    -                                         ~~~~~~~~~MINE  I
- 22 -                                                          Page 5
TRAD. PAYH SE AND W2IAL P1.WS
BALAICE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                               MERCHIANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-1978. RECORDED)
1976          1977          1978            1979          1960 2/                                                       U5$ Million      %
(US0 Million)
Etport. (C + NFS)                                       133.0          177.6         191.1           254.8         306.2          Cotton                                           7.2          25.9
Iporte (G + NFS)                                       276.9          306.5         360.6          448.6          526.7          Coc. BRen                                        3.2          11.5
Re.ourne Gap (deficit . -)                             -143.9         -128.9        -169.5          -193.8        -220 5          P.1. Prod..t.                                    5.0          18.0
All Other Co_Cditlis                            12.3         44.6
TOTAL                                     27.7        100 0
Internet Paynent. (net)                                  36.4           37.0          31.8            33.3          38.6
W.rk.r.1' Reittance.                                      15.9          17.0          26.5            23.3          28.6
Other Factor (net)                                        0.0            0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
Net Tran.fer-                                            26.3           28.4          22.1            26.2          286.
Bal-nce on Current A-co.nta                             -65.3          -46.3         -88.9         -110.9         -124.8
Direct Foreign Inveet-ent                                 6.3            6.7           4.4             7.4           6.4          EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31  1980
Net YLT Rorronlng                                        31.8           36.2          61.9            71.4          96.7
Capital Grant.                                           26.3           28.9          25.2            23.8          37.1                                                           USS Yillion
Other Capital (net)                                      -9.6          -14.6           5.3            10.5                                                                         L
Other Ite.- v.0.1.                                        5.8            9.3          14.1            10.9         -28.0          Public Debt .  Diebnr.ed)                         269.1
lce of Renorvee (increasec. - )                          -5.4            0.4          21.7            12.8          12.8             Incloding Gnaranteed
Net Recer,en (end year) I/                               27.6           25.6           0.9           -27.6           -            Total Outrtending and Diebur.td
Petroleum  eIporto an a of Total Inporta                   4.4           3.8           3.5             3.4           3.2
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 3/
Public Debt (Disbur,ed)                              4.0
Including Guarnteed
XCHIIANGE RATES (CFAF PER US$)                                                                                                    Totel Out:tending  nd Diebureed
YEAR         Period    eroge    End of Period
1973               223               230                                                                                           1BRD/IDA L1NDIN5 AS OF 14R  31. 1981
1974               241               222
1975               214               224                                                                                                                                         IBRD    IDA
1976               239               248                                                                                                                                        (IUS    ID)
1977               246               235
1978               226               209                                                                                          Outetanding  nd Disbursed
1979               212               201                                                                                          0 tndigbur.ed                                           56.8
1980               210               226                                                                                          outdsbndi-g In5I8din R Udiebu d                        4457
1981               250                                                                                                                                                                   68.57
l   Net foreign asnets of Central bRnk
2/  Estimttes
3/  Preleinary esti"ate of ratio of debt aervice to enporta of good. and NFS
Not available
Apr-1 21, 1981



- 23 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
A.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS 5/
(as of March 31, 1981)
Credit
Number          Year   Borrower   Purpose                Amount 1/  UJndisbursed
(US$ million)
Three Credits fully disbursed                            14.80
415-BEN         1973   Benin       Roads                 20.80 2/        3.30
583-BEN         1975   Benin       Rural Education        4.00           1.77
and Training
716-BEN         1977   Benin       Technical Assis-       1.70           0.36
tance
717-BEN         1977   Benin       Feeder Roads           5.50           0.47
746-BEN         1977   Benin       Third Highway         10.00           2.44
826-BEN         1978   Benin       Cotonou Port          19.30 3/        3.36
997-BEN 4/      1980   Benin       Industrial Develop- 10.00            10.00
ment
TOTAL                                    86.10          21.70
of which has been repaid                  8.40
TOTAL now outstanding                    77.70
TOTAL now held by IDA                    77.70
TOTAL undisbursed                        21.70
Amount     Undisbursed
(SDR million)
1090-BEN 4/    1981   Benin Feeder Roads                  5.5            5.5
1127-BEN 4/    1981   Benin Borgou Province Rural
Development                    15.7           15.7
Total                                    21.2           21.2
of which has been repaid                0.0
Total now outstanding                    21.2
Total now held by IDA                    21.2
Total undisbursed                        21.2
1/   Prior to Exchange Adjustment.
2/   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$9 million.
3/   Including US$8.3 million participation of the Government of Norway (fully
disbursed) and repaid.
4/   Not effective yet.  Credit No. 1090 was signed on January 14, 1981 and
Credit No. 1127 on April 9, 1981. A Credit of DTS 9.3 million for a
Fourth Highway Project was approved on May 14. This Credit has not
yet been signed.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 415: Second Highway Project; US$11.8 million credit
of July 3, 1973; Closing Date: October 31, 1981. Due to inflation and
currency realignments, project cost estimates increased to US$23.3 million or
77 percent above the original cost estimates. The Association provided a
supplementary credit of US$9.0 million on March 10, 1976. Physical execution
of the project has been completed.  The closing date was postponed to October
31, 1981 to allow for disbursement of about $600,000 to cover costs of tech-
nical assistance under the Feeder Road Project (Credit 717-BEN).
Credit No. 583: Rural Education and Training Project; US$4.0
million credit of September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981. This
credit provides for (i) construction and supply of training materials for a
Skills Upgrading Center in Cotonou; (ii) construction, equipment and technical
assistance to improve the ongoing rural youth training program; and (iii)
preparation of a second education project. The construction of the National
Support Center (CNAC), and of the Regional Support Centers for the rural
training component of the project and of the Skills Upgrading Center (CPPE)
have been completed. Personnel have been appointed to the CNAC. Equipment
has been selected and issued to the youth clubs. Training for extension staff
and group leaders has begun. Implementation of the rural water supply com-
ponent jointly financed with UNICEF, commenced in July 1980 is expected to
take two years to complete.
Credit No. 716; Technical Assistance Project; US$1.7 million
credit of May 30, 1977; Closing Date:  July 31, 1981.  This project is
designed to prepare the way for a rural development project. The project
which was to be carried out over a two-year period is nearing completion. It
provided for technical assistance to SONAGRI, the project-executing agency, in
financial management, project preparation and evaluation, procurement of
trucks and staff vehicles, consultant services for the preparation of invest-
ment proposals and for cotton and foodcrops adaptive research. Preparation of
the Zou project is nearing completion. The technical assistance program has
been extended to July 1981.
Credit No. 717: Feeder Roads Project; US$5.5 million credit
of May 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1981. This project consists of
a three-year program for the improvement of about 845 km of feeder roads and
subsequent maintenance of about 1,270 km, the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment and spare parts, and technical assistance to the Ministry of Equip-
ment. This project is about completed. The program of feeder road develop-
ment would be continued under a recently approved Second Feeder Road project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -                               ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 746: Third Highway Project US$10 million credit
of November 18, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This project is
designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou by providing for the
rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country's main north-south highway;
it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance program begun under the two
previous highway projects; including the elimination of some of the backlog of
bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. Project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily although delays in starting the bitumen roads resealing program
have resulted in further deterioration of about 54 km of roads which now
require full reconstruction. This coupled with an erosion of the dollar of
about 17 percent since appraisal has caused project costs to increase by an
(         additional $5.5 million.  Reconstruction of the bitumen roads is provided for
under the proposed Fourth Highway project.
Credit No. 826: Cotonou Port Project; US$11.0 million credit
of October 6, 1978, Closing Date: March 31, 1982. This project provides
for the extension of the existing general cargo port facilities involving
dredging of a new basin, construction of 610 m berths with transit sheds,
hardstandings, roadway, and railway services; the construction of a new
cut-off breakwater and entrance channel dredging; technical assistance
for all port operations including railway and a study of coastal erosion
problems. Eight co-financiers including IDA had originally agreed to par-
ticipate in the project and to provide about US$44.0 million of external
financing. A US$3.0 million EEC Special Action Credit was approved on
November 9, 1979 to close the financing gap created by the withdrawal of one
of the co-financiers. Civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
costs have increased by about $7.5 million, primarily because of a design
change necessitated by an apparent shortfall in the volumes and sizes of rocks
expected to be obtained from an old breakwater to be demolished for the
construction of a new one. The Government is seeking additional financing
from the cofinanciers.
Credit No. 997-BEN: Industrial Development Project; US$10
million credit of April 16, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985. This project
provides needed term resources to the Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement
(BBD) for financing small- and medium-scale investments in the industrial
sector and technical assistance to help build up BBD-s capacity to identify,
promote and assist industrial projects. This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1090-BEN: Second Feeder Roads Project; US$7 million
credit of January 14, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.  This project
provides for the construction of about 700 km and maintenance of 1,200 km of
feeder roads. This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1127-BEN: Borgou Province Rural Development Project;
US$20 million credit of April 9, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985. This
project provides for expanding agricultural production (foodcrops and cotton)
in the Borgou Province through the strengthening and support of institutions
and of technical infrastructure, integrated with improved extension, coopera-
tives, training and social services. This Credit is not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
COTONOU WATER/SANITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first presented to IDA                    April 1980
(b)  Agency which prepared the project                 SBEE
(c)  Time taken by SBEE to prepare the project         seven months
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission                 : November 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations                        April 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                     December 1981
Section II      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III    Special Conditions
A.   The Government will:
(i) pay arrears owed to SBEE by its departments, services, and agencies
according to a schedule acceptable to IDA (para. 41);
(ii) ensure that in future its departments, services and agencies pay
SBEE all amounts due for water and electricity consumption within
four months after billing (para. 41).
B.   SBEE will:
(i) put existing standpipes into operation as soon as water production
has been increased following construction of project wells
(para. 30);
(ii) adjust its water supply tariffs, as and when necessary, so as to
cover its cash operating expenses plus debt service (para. 44).
C.   Condition of Effectiveness
Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement betweem Government and
SBEE with terms and conditions acceptable to the Association
(para. 52).



BIRD 13797
. I'2. !                                          N        [I          3'-G      E      R.\         MAI 1978
-12'                                                                                          42'
E4ndA                             b b
^   >  ((                  t ~~~~~~AB UAG V.:L   Gor
'GTG1  kO ./i
V-  K  d,P./                                              KD I
!  xD   /    E   a AKdrou       \           p Gogounou                       (a 
)             TANGLIETA                        j                 |
__-    TouloDntourof    r]2   i   >                     .i
'       NATIT.TINGGOUAD                                                                   I       /A/
'NBaaaaa          Ka5apa,,ao           PA'ac  \       Baa,bA,daa/         
3'<        /                F-BorK-a'  |i     --
|.aa K.,        ,d-lougD            ._    Ba a 
Voro          BodaIt , aU GIOUGGo                                                    4
GaampogoM           >      / >                                                              t
a                      b                 A610p.ns 6 .~pitEP dBL ICU 3
90   |PBO55;10 9   t  <}  t                                                                 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
iL\?                             u               POUl            D
t   Xs-Zooet)    )/ I                 TRANSPORTS ET
j  <               ;---a  ~ADMINISTRATION
.~~~~~~~ KAa , , --fr                          Faaaaian,S pro a,aloa1e
_ 7 . < < N I N~ ~ ~ ~ ao X .  -'1   "N                g  aba'  ji,    t'   A erBpo n a  capoa,ia  da  DIC.3  
8   2     1t    \ IHtD5   ;;o-a5,'o,OO                 -*  -  Fraati~aaa in5ataaaiaolaae      N
aoaa-a,a                       aaa cdi,,n ,                 0l 19 0, 20 ,40  50
%     i        m~~~~~~~~~PRT  O0



