r-~
OFFIC1L
DOCUMENTS    CREDIT NUMBER 1171 BEN
Proect Agreement
(Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE BENINOISE D'ELECTRICITE ET D'EAU
Dated     Cg ,ýr                    1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1171 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      )     A                , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SOCIETE BENINOISE D'ELECTRICITE ET D'EAU (here-
inafter called SBEE).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million one hundred thousand Special
A           Drawing Rights (SDR 4,100,000), on the terms and cond-.tions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that SBEE agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SBEE, the Borrower will make available to
SBEE an amount equivalent to $2,800,000 out of the proceeds of the
.       credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SBEE, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
.        agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SBEE shall carry out Part A (1) and Parts B
(1) through B (4) of the Project and shall supervise the carrying
out of Parts A (2) and A (3) and Part B (6) of the Project with
due diligence: and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-2-
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section and without limitation or restric-
tion upon such obligations, SBEE shall provide, promptly as
needed, out of its own financial resources, the funds required for
carrying out Part A (1) and Parts B (1) through B (4) of the
Project; such funds shall be additional to the funds relent to it
by the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SBEE in carrying out
Parts B (1) through B (4) of the Project, SBEE shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) With respect to the evaluation and implementation of the
recommendations and other conclusions contained in the studies and
other documents prepared for Parts B (1) through B .(4) of the
Project by the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, SBEE shall:
(i) during the carrying out of said Parts of the
Project, from time to time exchange views with
the Borrower and the Association on said recom-
mendations and conclusions; and
(ii) upon completion of said Parts of the Project,
review with the Borrower and the Association
the recommendations and conclusions relating
thereto with a view to their implementation.
Section 2.03. Upon completion of Part A (1)     the Project
SBEE shall connect all existing standpipes in Ciu.nou to the
water supply system and thereafter maintain in operation or ensure
the continued operation of said standpipes.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) SBEE undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for. the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against


﻿-3-
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such in-
surance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by SBEE to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SBEE
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
Part A (1) and Parts B (1) through B (4) of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) SBEE shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for Part A
(1) and Parts B (1) through B (4) of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) SBEE: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part A (1) and Parts B
(1) through B (4) of the Project (including their &pst and the
benefits to be derived from them), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in said Parts of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
.reasonably request concerning said Parts of the Project, their
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
them, the expenditure of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) SBEE shall prepare the report referred to in Section
3.06 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement with respect to Part
A, Parts B (1) through B (4) and Part B (6) of the Project and
shall furnish to the Borrower any information required for pur-
poses of such report regarding said Parts of the Project.
(d) SBEE shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SBEE and any relevant records and
documents.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. SBEE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SBEE shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) SBEE shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A, Parts B (1) through B (4) and Part B (6) of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SBEE shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part A, Parts B (1) through B (4) and Part B (6) of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or
the performance by SBEE of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subslidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SBEE
Section 3.01. (a) SBEE shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, commercial, financial, engineering and public
utility practices under the supervision of experienced and 'com-
petent management assisted by experienced and competent staff
,in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SBEE shall take all such action, including the
provision of funds and resources, as shall be necessary to ensure
that its facilities, equipment and property are adequately
operated, maintained, renewed and repaired.
Section 3.02. (a) SBEE shall take all steps necessary to
maintain its legal existence and right to carry on its operations
and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew
such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights as may be
necessary or useful for its operations.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SBEE
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
conduct of its daily operations.
Section 3.03. SBEE shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SBEE shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) Until completion of the study on water
tariffs provided for under Part B (3) of the Project SBEE shall
take all measures necessary (including but not limited to pro-
posals to the Borrower for adjustments in its water supply
tariffs) to enable SBEE to earn sufficient revenues to cover: (i)
the cash operating expenses of its water supply operations; and
(ii) its debt service requirements.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "cash operating expenses" means all costs
of operation by SBEE of its water supply facili-
ties, including adequate maintenance expenses,
taxes or payments to the Borrower in lieu of taxes,
if any, but excluding provision for depreciation
of fixed assets and amortization of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(ii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
or purchase fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(c) Upon completion of the study referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, SBEE shall review with the Association the
recommendations and conclusions resulting from said study and
shall take all measures necessary in the light of said review to


﻿adjust its water supply tariffs; such measures shall include but
not be limited to proposals to the Borrower for adjustment in said
tariffs.
Section 4.03. SBEE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of SBEE and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SBEE thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SBEE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SBEE:
Socift& Bfninoise
d'Electriciti et d'Eau
P.O. Box 123
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                      Telex:
BENINELEC                           5223 or
Cotonou                             5225
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SBEE may be taken or executed by
the Director General of SBEE or such other person or persons as


﻿SBEE shall designate in writing, and SBEE shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE BENINOISE D'ELECTRICITE ET D'EAU
ByA                       r    Rpenai
Authorized Representative


﻿I
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   0         day of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


