Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17461
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2567-BD)
March 10, 1998
Finance & PSD Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
January 1994 (credit approval):
US$1.00 = Tk. 39.85
October 1997 (currently):
US$1.00 = Tk. 44.55
(1 crore Taka  10 million Taka
I lakh Taka  100,000 Taka)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BJMC             Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BJC              Bangladesh Jute Corporation
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GOB              Government of Bangladesh
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
JSAC             Jute Sector Adjustment Credit
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:                          Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director for Bangladesh:         Mr. Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager:                          Ms. Marilou Uy
Task Leader:                             Mr. Alfredo Dammert



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2567-BD)
CONTENTS
Pate No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................                                          i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background ...............................................                                             1
B. JSAC Objectives and Design ...............................................2
C.  Achievement of Objectives ..............................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Programn ..............................................                    4
E. IDA's Performance ..............................................8
F. Borrower's Performance ..............................................                                 10
G. Assessment of Outcome and Program Sustainability ..............................................      11
H. Key Lessons Learned ..............................................                                    11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.  Summary of Assessments ..............................................                               13
2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits .............................................. 15
3.  Project Timetable                           .............................................. 15
4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............................................. 16
5.  Dates of Tranche Release                        .............................................. 16
6.  Program Financing .............................................. 16
7.  Status of Legal Covenants and Conditionality ..................................                      17
8.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................. 27
9.  Bank Resources: Missions .................................. 27
APPENDIX
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire .................................. 28
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR ..................................                                     36
MAP OF BANGLADESH
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2567-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Jute Sector Adjustment Credit
(JSAC) to Bangladesh (Credit 2567-BD) in the amount of SDR175 million equivalent, which was
approved by the IDA Board on February 17, 1994 and made effective on April 5, 1994.
The JSAC was closed on June 30, 1997, compared with the original Closing Date of
December 31, 1996. The first tranche in an amount of SDR35 million, released upon
effectiveness, was fully disbursed by March 2, 1995. The other three tranches originally scheduled
for disbursement -- the second, third and floating tranches -- were not released by IDA due to lack
of compliance with agreed actions prior to disbursement. In addition, the Association approved the
equivalent of SDR9.1 million in IDA reflows for the financing of JSAC, of which only SDR2.41
million were actually disbursed, as the remaining funds were contingent on the release of the three
undisbursed tranches. All told, the Association provided SDR37.41 million in credits for the
financing of the Project. There was no cofinancing for the Program from outside sources.
This ICR was prepared by the Finance and Private Sector Development Unit, South Asia
Region, and reviewed by Ms. Marilou Uy, Sector Manager, and Mr. Alfredo Dammert, Task Team
Leader for JSAC.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during an IDA mission that took place in June/July
1997. Also, it is based on material in the project files and on perspectives gained by the Region
during its continued involvement in structural reform and associated technical assistance operations
in Bangladesh. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the
draft ICR and by preparing its own evaluation of the Program's execution, which has been
reproduced (unedited) in the Appendix.



-_-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2567-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    The fast disbursing SDR175 million Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (JSAC) provided
financing for the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)'s structural adjustment program of the jute
mill industry (the Program). Its ultimate objective was to create a viable, essentially privately
owned jute industry operating on normal commercial basis in a reformed policy enviromnent. In
the three-year period 1994-96, the GOB intended to increase efficiency in the jute mill industry, by
transferring most of the operating capacity to the private sector and by giving it a new ability to
adjust to a weak world demand and the technological changes affecting cargo handling and
transportation worldwide. The aim was to make this Bangladeshi industry a more dynamic force in
world markets, where it traditionally has been the dominant player.
ii.    The Program conditionality included in the Matrix of Policy Actions required: (a) the
elimination of excess capacity by closing and selling the assets of 9 out of 29 public mills and
downsizing one large public mill; (b) the retrenchment of about 20,000 public mills employees; (c)
the restructuring of some US$900 million of jute sector debt -- including debt-forgiveness,
rescheduling and temporary operating subsidies; (d) the privatization of 19 of the remaining 20
operating public mills; (f) the implementation of a training program for workers and managers
employed by jute mills; and (e) the closing and liquidation of the assets of the Bangladesh Jute
Corporation (BJC), the state trading company. In addition, the GOB made a commitment to
maintain a macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the Program, including wage policies
in the jute sector aimed at restoring and then maintaining profitability in the industry. Also, the
GOB agreed to promote legislation that introduced a mandatory retirement age for public sector
workers, establish prudential guidelines to govern lending by banks to mills on purely commercial
basis, compensate banks for some of the losses incurred in the debt workouts that benefited jute
mills, and implement a program to retrain mill employees laid off as a result of the retrenchment in
the industry.
iii.    Achievement of objectives. At the time of its closing, the ultimate objective of the JSAC
Program had not been achieved. The industry's viability had not improved and during the three
and a half years of actual program execution, the public sector operating mill capacity registered a
significant increase in its share. However, the policy environment for the jute industry improved:
subsidies to the industry were eliminated, direct controls on operations were removed, export
quotas were lifted, and wages in the private sector were delinked from those of public mills. As to
compliance with specific tranche conditionality, most progress came as a result of actions taken
prior to JSAC's Board presentation. Achievements during that period justified the release of the
first tranche following effectiveness. In this pre-Board stage, 4 public mills were closed and 1
downsized. In addition, 12,000 workers at public mills were retrenched. Most importantly, BJC,
the largest money loser, was closed. No other tranche releases took place during implementation.
Although, the GOB carried out the debt restructuring and additional labor retrenchment required
under the subsequent tranches, it did not implement the privatization/closure program, which were



main conditions under such tranches.
iv.    Major factors affecting the Program. As identified in the President's Report, the political
difficulty of sustaining the momentum for reform in the jute rmill industry was potentially the main
obstacle to the successful implementation of the Program. Despite the GOB's initial success, soon
after JSAC became effective the GOB political will to carry out the Program started to rapidly
disappear. The political problems faced by the Program were compounded by a general climate of
civil unrest and disturbance in the country that started to materialize late in 1994 and that did not
subside until 1996. This state of affairs was particularly damaging to the critical components of
privatization and mill closing, two of the pillars on which the Program rested.
v.     Although the design of the Program addressed all major relevant issues, it could have
imnproved in some areas. Better understanding could have been reached between IDA and the GOB
as to the potential outcome of the privatization component. IDA's position was that the result of
the privatization program should be determined by the market, and that the ultimate size of the jute
industry should depend on this. While this is an adequate position from the point of view of
desirable economic policy, the GOB agreed to the Program based on the expectation that the
industry would remain operating at about the same levels, and were reluctant to take any actions
that could result in an overall smaller industry. Also, more attention could have been paid to the
design of the privatization strategy and to ensure an adequate privatization infrastructure. The
strategy should have analyzed the viability of privatizing the mills, and estimated from the
beginning the volume of financial resources necessary to conduct proper mill workouts, including
labor retrenchment and further debt restructuring, necessary to make such mills attractive to
private investors. Instead, the strategy relied on the possibility to revise the tender process based
on the results of a pilot privatization under the floating tranche. A related technical assistance
operation provided sufficient resources to properly support the staffing and operation of the
Privatization Board (PB), but in retrospect this was not enough. During most of the
implementation period there was little political and technical leadership at the PB level, while the
consulting work hired to assist with the privatization process was unsatisfactory. Another factor
that slowed down the privatization efforts was the fact that at the time of Program design it was not
yet possible for IDA to finance directly labor retrenchment. The lack of such mechanism made it
difficult for the Ministry of Jute to obtain timely funding for the retrenchment of jute mill workers.
Also, although the rationale for providing higher loss financing support to public mills than to
private mills was to support the orderly contraction of capacity under public ownership and avoid
the deterioration of public mills prior to privatization, such arrangement created a non-level
playing field unfavorable to private mills.
vi.    IDA performance. The process of Program identification made by IDA covered well the
main factors that caused the deterioration of the jute industry: impact of declining world demand
for jute; dominance of the public sector; government controls on exports, wages and level of
operations; distressed financial situation of public and private mills; and mandatory credit system
that isolated the mills from mounting financial pressures. This diagnostic was translated into a
comprehensive program design that formed part of JSAC conditionality (para. ii), including:
closure of the public trading corporation, capacity rationalization of public mills, privatization of
most public mills, elimination of government controls, cost reduction measures through debt
restructuring and employment rationalization, improved financial discipline, and wage reforms. In
retrospect, a more detailed plan for mill privatization, i.e. concerning labor reduction and debt
restructuring, could have been undertaken during project preparation that would have improved
design of the Program, and IDA could have ensured that the GOB understood that implementation



- iii -
of the Program could result in a lower overall output for the jute industry. (para. v). IDA could
also have established a more selective mechanism for subsidies to the public mills in order to avoid
encouraging the worse performing mills to continue operations (para. v). Concerning IDA's
decision to go ahead with the program, it was based on its strong commitment to support the
GOB's agenda of structural reforms and was designed as part of a series of adjustment operations.
IDA recognized the risk that JSAC may fail due to the considerable political difficulties that the
GOB would face in sustaining its initial reform efforts, but considered that the benefits associated
with a successful outcome justified its strong support. To reduce such risk, IDA frontloaded the
conditionality prior to Board presentation. Furthermore, to provide an adequate incentive to
continue reform, disbursements under the floating, second, and third tranches were to be made
subject to concrete results, which included the privatization/ closure of the public mills as main
conditions.
vii.   As to IDA's performance during implementation, the agreed Program design and the
political environment in Bangladesh largely determined this. Perhaps a more decisive stand could
have been taken by IDA on an early cancellation of the Program once it became clear by mid-1 995
that the political climate and lack of will by the GOB made the implementation of the Program
unlikely. However, IDA agreed to the GOB request to maintain the Program based on the
expectation that the political situation would improve and the Program could be continued. After
the arrival of the current Administration an agreement with the GOB was reached in September
1996 in the context of the Program's Mid-term review. The relatively large amount of staff/weeks
dedicated to supervision during this period illustrates the significant efforts made to rescue the
Program. The agreement was reached on a revised implementation schedule with emphasis on
decisive up-front actions covering closure and privatization of mills, as well the disposal of
redundant assets and the strengthening of the privatization program. Even though there was little
action progress prior to the original Closing Date, there were indications of willingness on the part
of the new Administration to go ahead with implementation --mainly reflected in renewed
privatization efforts, including awarding one public mill to a private bidder. Thus, IDA accepted a
six-month extension, to give the GOB more time to act on the agreed up-front actions. However,
when no substantive progress was achieved again during such period, IDA decided to close JSAC
on the revised date of June 30, 1997. On balance, implementation by IDA was carried out
satisfactorily, given the constraints faced during this stage.
viii.   Borrower performance. Initially, the Borrower took decisive and important actions that led
to approval of JSAC by IDA, but was not able to maintain the momentum of reform. Both
Administrations that participated in the execution of the Program found it difficult to gather
support for its implementation, fearing that this had the potential to cause large-scale
unemployment, loss of traditional export markets and a negative impact on the country's
agricultural sector. Given these perceived uncertainties and the high political risks involved, the
tendency in both of these Administrations was to muddle through the best they could. They were
quite conscious of the need to reform the sector and reduce its losses, but quite unable to come up
with altemative plans to reconcile the conflicting interests of financial viability with the
maintenance of traditional levels of employment and production in the sector. It is not surprising
then, that the resulting implementation performance of the GOB was highly unsatisfactory.
Independently of some shortcomings in the Program design, it is felt that with adequate level of
political will and commitment on the part of the Borrower, considerably more progress could have
been achieved with JSAC in reforming the jute mill industry of Bangladesh.
ix.    Assessment of outcome and Program Sustainability. The outcome of the Program is highly



- iv -
unsatisfactory as it failed to achieve its major objectives and is not expected to yield worthwhile
developmental results. Also, little sustainability can be expected to be derived from the Program
since the industry remains mainly under public ownership, subject to government intervention and
political patronage.
x.     The above notwithstanding, there were some accomplishments under the Program, as
illustrated by the meeting of the pre-Board conditionality and, during implementation, the bank
debt restructuring, the training of over 16,000 mill workers, and the introduction of a mandatory
retirement age of 65 years for all public employees. Also, there was a moderate improvement in
the financial discipline of the sector. Some of the gains are irreversible, e.g. closure of BJMC and
four public mills, delinking of wages in private mills from those of public mills, but other
improvements have the potential of reversal as they depend on the political will of the
Administration. There has been a recent surge in temporary and permanent new positions in public
mills in clear conflict with a spirit of reform in these state enterprises.
xi.    Key lessons learned. Lessons worth keeping in mind for future IDA operations are:
*  The Program confirmed the experience elsewhere that broad internalization of the reform
program by the borrower and its executing agencies, accompanied by solid political
commitment and consensus at the highest levels of decision making are essential
ingredients for any successful IDA structural reform operation.
*  It is important that IDA and the Borrower reach a common understanding as to the
possible outcome of a Program. In the case of JSAC, IDA's perception that the jute
industrial output could decrease substantially was different from that of the GOB's that
total output would remain constant.
-  Since a successful privatization program for public jute mills was central to JSAC, this
issue should have been addressed in considerably more detail and approached from a
broader perspective than that in the original Program design. To be successful in the
privatization of technically non-attractive, money-losing state enterprises, such as jute
mills in Bangladesh, the privatization effort should have been approached more
innovatively than the standard open tendering system. This would have required an
assessment of the privatization possibilities of the mills, and a detailed privatization
strategy based on such assessment. It would have defined what could be expected under
the program and also attracted a broader spectrum of private bidders.
*  If temporary grant financing of loss making enterprises is considered as part of a reform
program, these subsidies should be timebound and provided with ironclad commitments by
entities willing and able to tum themselves around and become financially viable. Blanket
subsidies applied without a clear focus on promoting economic efficiency tend to slow the
adjustment process and increase supply-side distortions.
*  In cases of significant downsizing of installed industrial capacity it is important to provide
a social safety net for the benefit of displaced workers as was recognized under the
Program. However, it is also important to consider ways to mitigate the adverse effects of
the industrial restructuring on livelihood in the associated sectors -- e.g. farmers in the case
of jute mill restructuring.



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2567-BD)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The JSAC or Credit 2567-BD to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR175
million, was designed as a relatively fast disbursing balance of payment support operation, with the
specific aim of providing financing for the GOB's structural adjustment program of the jute
manufacturing industry (the Program). This Program is described in the Sector Policy Letter of
the GOB dated December 23, 1993. The ultimate objective of the Programn was to create a viable,
essentially privately owned jute industry operating on normal commercial basis in a reformed
policy environment. The GOB intended to complete the reform process by the end of 1996.
2.    When the Program started, jute was the main cash crop and the basis for the largest
industry in Bangladesh, providing employment opportunities for some 10% of the work force and
accounting for 12% of GDP. Including processed jute products, the sector represented about 20%
of Bangladesh export earnings. Jute from Bangladesh was also preponderant in the world market,
where it represented three-quarters of total supplies of raw jute and one-half of manufactured jute
goods. Furthermore, jute has a unique social and political weight in the Bangladeshi society, as it
affects, directly or indirectly, the livelihood of some 25 million people through its impact in jute-
related activities in agriculture, marketing, manufacturing and trade.
3.    Since the early 1970s the demand for jute had been in a long-term decline in world
markets, as the bulk handling of commodities evolved and synthetic substitutes for jute gained
acceptance. This plus strong competition from India resulted in weak prices in the early nineties.
Expectations then were for a further retrenchment and loss in the competitive position of the
traditional products (sacking, hessian and carpet backing cloth) supplied by the Bangladeshi jute
industry in world markets. The problems being faced by Bangladesh were compounded and to
some extent caused by the dominant role played by the public sector in jute manufacturing. The
Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC) operated 29 mills, accounting for about 64% of total
jute manufacturing capacity. In addition, at the time the Program was designed the Government
held a minority position of some 43% in the equity of the 35 operating private mills.
4.    Under this rather complex scenario, the GOB embarked on a fast paced and ambitious
program of reform. It tried to improve the efficiency of the jute mill industry and give it a
competitive edge and a new ability to adjust to outside changes, so as to make of the Bangladeshi
jute industry a dynamic force in world markets for years to come.



B. JSAC Objectives and Design
5.     For Bangladesh, poverty alleviation is the overriding objective of development. Since
about half of the population of the country is considered absolutely poor, rapid and labor-intensive
growth is the sine qua non for reducing poverty. In this context, given the limited size of the
Bangladeshi domestic market, a logical choice on which to base rapid industrial growth was to try
to develop export-oriented sectors such as jute, one of the two leading agro-based activities. The
Government at the time of Program design rightly endorsed economic liberalization in trade and
investment, as a way of developing a vibrant and dynamic industrial sector led by the private
sector. Besides, given the fiscal budget constraint, accelerated private investment in the industrial
sector -- from both domestic and foreign sources -- was considered essential to create the needed
jobs for the two million new entrants to the labor force faced each year.
6.     Although a traditional product of Bangladesh, the decline shown by jute products in world
markets, the pervasive presence of the public sector, as well as the excess capacity and low labor
productivity that characterized the jute mill sector, prevented it from playing a leading role in the
country's industrial revival envisaged for the nineties. In addition, years of government
intervention and market distortions had resulted in a weakened group of private jute mills, which
were far from ready and could not be expected to lead in any significant way the recovery of the
sector. All this clearly limited the options of the GOB and favored the adoption of a strategy for
the sector that initially had to rely heavily on structural adjustment. Confronted with heavy losses
by public enterprises, and in particular its jute mills, the Government at the time saw retrenchment
and privatization as the primary means for improving the fiscal accounts, so as to liberalize
resources for the pressing social agenda. The other key ingredient for structural reform was the
urgent need to take actions geared to clear the untenable debt overhang of the sector, so as to
restore financial viability to both private and public jute mills alike. This was essential to give a
fair chance to the privatization program to succeed.
7.     Thus, at the time of appraisal, it was decided that JSAC would support the following
program of specific reforms in the jute mill industry: (a) the elimination of excess capacity by
closing and selling the assets of 9 out of 29 public mills and downsizing one large public mill; (b)
the retrenchment of about 20,000 public mills employees; (c) the restructuring of some US$900
million of jute sector debt -- including debt-forgiveness, rescheduling and temporary operating
subsidies; (d) the privatization of 19 of the remaining 20 operating public mills; (e) the
implementation of a training program for workers and managers employed by jute mills; and (f) the
closing and liquidation of the assets of the Bangladesh Jute Corporation (BJC), the state trading
company. In addition, the GOB made a commitment to maintain a macroeconomic policy
framework consistent with the Program, including wage policies in the jute sector aimed at
restoring and then maintaining profitability in the industry. Also, the GOB agreed to promote
legislation that introduced a mandatory retirement age for public sector workers.
8.     To give the adjustment process a more comprehensive reach, the Program included other
components that addressed a variety of related topics. Among them were the establishment of
prudential guidelines to govern lending by banks to mills on purely commercial basis, the
introduction of a package to compensate banks for some of the losses incurred in the debt workouts
that benefited jute mills, and the implementation of a program to retrain mill employees laid off as
a result of the retrenchment in the industry. All the reforms and actions under the Program were
expected to take less than three years for their full implementation.



- 3 -
9.     This was a complex Program of reform and quite demanding on the abilities of the
Borrower. Further, the President's Report highlighted its politically very sensitive nature.
However, given the importance of the jute industry, its state of deterioration and the urgency to
remedy the situation, it was unrealistic to undertake a process of reform that did not address the
issues being faced by the sector in a comprehensive and ambitious way. There were few options
but to intent serious structural reform, so in this respect the objectives of the Program were
realistic.
C. Achievement of Objectives
10.    At the time of its closing, the ultimate objective of the JSAC Program had not been
achieved. The industry's viability had not improved and during the three and a half years of actual
program execution, public sector operating mills capacity registered a significant increase in its
share. However, the policy environment for the jute industry improved: subsidies were eliminated,
direct controls on operations were lifted, export quotas were eliminated, and wages in the private
sector mills were delinked from those of public mills.
11.    Concerning the specific actions associated with tranche conditionality, the GOB took
initial important steps required under the first tranche, but did not comply with key necessary
actions mainly related to privatization/closure of public mills required under the subsequent
tranches. Substantial progress under the Program came as a result of the actions taken prior to
JSAC's Board presentation, which justified the release of the first tranche following effectiveness.
In this pre-Board stage, 4 public mills were closed and 1 downsized. In addition, 12,000 workers
at public mills were retrenched. Most importantly, BJC, the largest money loser was closed under
the Programn, which was an achievement in itself. However, no other releases took place during
implementation, as the GOB did not meet most of the conditionality associated with the other three
tranches scheduled under the Program. The restructuring of debts was carried out for private and
public mills during the implementation stage. Also, another 8,000 permanent workers in the public
mills were retrenched. However, the GOB showed no results in the privatization front and little
progress in the downsizing of the public presence in the industry. Indeed, the crucial test for the
so-called "floating" tranche was to bring to the point of sale one public mill. This could have been
achieved as early as the first quarter of 1995 had the GOB decided not to suspend the transfer of
the Hafiz Textile Mills to the winning private bidder. For a variety of reasons, several other
attempts by the Privatization Board to privatize mills failed, either because they did not generate
active responses from private investors or there was unwillingness on the part of the GOB to
accept any of the few offers made. As to the second tranche, the GOB was even further away from
meeting the key actions required for its release. Prior to it the GOB was expected to carry out the
closure of five more public mills, a substantial downsizing of the largest and inefficient Adamjee
Jute Mills and the divestiture of at least nine additional public mills. The key action of the third
tranche -- divestiture of nine more mills -- did not even have a chance to be discussed, given the
lack of progress in meeting the conditionality for the prior two tranches. The key action under this
last tranche, originally expected no later than mid-1996, would have reduced the mills operated by
the public sector to only one, with at most 4,000 looms in capacity. Far from it, today BJMC is
actively operating 26 mills with a total capacity of some 12,000 looms.
12.    The Program brought about considerably more changes in the ways and culture of the
privately operated mills. Today, much more financial discipline is observed in this private segment
of the jute industry, which employs some 20,000 less workers than at the beginning of the
Program. Although the private mills received proportionally less government grants and for a



- 4 -
shorter period of time to finance losses under the Program, it appears that there is now at least a
small number of financially viable private mill operations.' Furthermore, in part because of the
higher degree of financial discipline imposed by the Program on private mills, wages were
successfully de-linked from those prevailing in BJMC mills. Currently. they are as much as 40
percent below those paid in the public mills. This is an achievement of the Program worth
highlighting. Nonetheless, it is a matter of concern that today the production of private jute mills
and their operating capacity has been reduced to only one fourth the total for the industry in
Bangladesh. This constitutes a significant reversal from the levels observed at the initiation of the
JSAC Program, when there was some 35 percent private participation, and is due primarily to the
lack of decisive action on the privatization and capacity retrenchment fronts by the GOB. It should
be pointed out that a retrenchment among traditional private mills was expected under the
Program, given that most of them had been artificially sustained in the past by the "open tap"
financial policy followed by the GOB. In fact, the gain in market share by the private sector under
the Program was anticipated to result from the successful privatization of the best public mills.
13.    Even as the agreed actions on debt forgiveness and rescheduling were met, it should be
pointed out that today with a few exceptions, mills are not servicing regularly their reduced bank
debt servicing burdens - which are roughly equivalent to some 33 percent of the debt servicing load
prior to the mills' debt workouts. Although there are several factors behind the substandard
quality of the jute mill debts with local banks, the fact remains that practically all public mills and
most of those privately run still face financial non-viability today . This becomes even more
evident once the high labor severance liabilities --which are contingent liabilities-- and the direct
debts with the GOB, are taken into account. Furthermore, the economic viability of a large portion
of the jute mill industry -- some 60 operating mills in total -- is an open question, as years of
neglect have deteriorated the production process in the mills, while world demand for its traditional
products stagnates. Thus, currently only a minority of the jute mills in Bangladesh has a positive
operational cash flow. All this delineates a picture for the sector today that is far from that of "a
viable and essentially privately-owned jute mill industry", which was originally envisioned to
prevail at the time of the closing of JSAC. In addition, banks that participated in the debt
restructuring have suffered by the insufficient Government compliance with the implementation of
its financial commitments under the Program. At the end, these banks had to assume a larger
financial burden as compensating bonds received from the Borrower were not issued timely and
their interest rate was not set at the levels originally agreed.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program
14.    When assessing the risks likely to jeopardize a successful implementation of this sectoral
adjustment program, the President's Report clearly identified as a potentially main obstacle the
X However, a note of caution is in order since private mills owe the GOB huge amounts of direct debt, which up to
now has been treated as subordinated obligations. If the GOB insists on collecting due service payments associated
with these old credits, then the financial viability of the best private mills also will become questionable.
2 In the comprehensive jute manufacturing study (JUMS) carried out by the GOB to set the foundations for its
proposed reform of the jute mill industry, only 3% to 4% of the outstanding debt of the mills was found to be
sustainable under the "Optimal Performance Improvement" scenario. The actual scope of the debt restructuring
under the Program was more modest, as it was based on more optimistic demand projections and as the GOB had to
face the realities of the fiscal budget constraint. Also central to the future viability of the jute mill industry according
to JUMS was the implementation of a balancing, modernization and rehabilitation (BRM) program in FY 1994-95, to
rehabilitate the badly run-down equipment in the mills to be retained and transferred to the private sector. This BRM
program estimated to cost in the range of US$100 million was not part of JSAC.



- 5 -
political difficulty of sustaining the momentum for reform in the jute mill industry. Several
safeguards were put in place, including a long list of 17 pre-conditions for Board presentation,
such as the closure of four unprofitable mills and the reduction of at least 12,000 excess mill
workers. All this constituted a strong argument to the IDA staff of the GOB's ability to move
forward with the proposed wide-ranging reform. Unfortunately, following effectiveness of JSAC,
the GOB's political will and commitment to carry out the implementation of the Program started to
rapidly disappear. The political problems faced by the Program were compounded by the general
climate of civil unrest and disturbance in the country that started to materialize late in 1994 and
that did not subside until 1996. When the political opposition took over the Government in mid
1996, following the long period of political turmoil, they were not able either to master the
necessary political will or reach the broad political consensus to carry the Program forward. This
was the case despite a broadly based understanding with IDA on a new timetable for
implementation, which was reached during the Mid-term review of July 1996.
15.    But the lack of decisive implementation drive was not limited to the politically difficult
tasks. Indeed, many of the easier actions included in the Program were not addressed either. Thus,
in hindsight, it can be argued that central to the failure of the reform process was the poor
internalization of the Program at the highest levels of decision making in Bangladesh. Although the
GOB duly negotiated the DCA and agreed on each of the specific actions to be taken under the
Program, the perception is that at the moment of implementation the Administration felt that these
actions, some of them politically difficult, were not on its priority list. This was particularly
evident when the moment came to divest mills or close the most inefficient ones or those that did
not find private sector takers. This lack of political will could have been damaging to any IDA
program, but it was particularly harmful to the reform of the jute sector. This reform had far
reaching social, political and economic implications, thus requiring the full and permanent attention
at the highest levels of decision making in the GOB. The Program supported by JSAC was and
still is the largest single IDA operation ever approved for Bangladesh.
16.    Although the design of the JSAC Program addressed all major relevant issues, it could
have been improved in some areas. What is not entirely clear is whether this could necessarily
have increased the chances of an improved implementation. Indeed, in the absence of decisive
political will and commitment on the part of the GOB to carry out the reforms, this could have
easily resulted in a disappointing implementation independently of the quality of the final Program
design. Yet, had IDA insisted in keeping some of the original, pre-negotiation conditionality and
design -- in particular concerning the less generous loss financing subsidies for public mills which
initially were equal to those for private mills --, the GOB would have had to face more clearly its
own commitment to the jute sector reform, including the option to go ahead without the support
provided by JSAC. At least under this scenario IDA would have been able to avoid being
perceived by the private mill owners as endorsing a Program detrimental to their own survival.3
3 In August 1996, Bangladesh's private jute mill owners filed a request with the Inspection Panel asking it to report
and recommend on their claim that the jute private sector had been harmed rather than helped through some flows in
the design of the Program and its 3-year delayed implementation. As a result the Requesters felt that the private jute
sector was now worse off than before the JSAC. The Panel concluded that the Requesters appeared to have suffered
material adverse effects during the Program's execution. Also, the Panel was not satisfied that IDA's Management
complied with all policies during the design and implementation of the JSAC. However, it was not in favor of
recommending that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation into violations of IDA policies and procedures.
Basically, the Panel thought that the closing of the operation without a new approach in place would presumably meet
none of the Requesters' expectations from the reform process. Similarly, it felt that an extension of JSAC's Closing
Date without revisiting basic design concepts with the GOB and the Requesters might not be an adequate course
either. Continued close supervision -including any extension period of the Program- with regard to financial



- 6 -
17.    Prior to and during Program preparation, a significant amount of time and resources were
spent assessing the state of the jute mill industry and the requirements for its rehabilitation to
productive and financial health4. From this analysis it became clear that the JSAC operation was
highly risky even on technical and financial grounds5. Although the projections showed that the
jute mill industry in Bangladesh was potentially viable, the margin of viability was narrow. This
was so even if a comprehensive program of reform was carried out and flexibility in the exchange
rate and prudence in the wage policy was maintained. It was foreseen that restoration of
profitability to the jute mills required a new inflow of private entrepreneurship, able to restore
commercial discipline in a sector that had been accustomed to political patronage rather than
competitive pressures. Furthermore, measures to substantially improve labor productivity and
bring about cost reductions were perceived as likely to result in a strong opposition from
traditionally strong labor unions, which also were heavily entangled with the day-to-day political
process -an involvement strong up to this day. In addition, profitability of individual mills
depended on the success of the Program to significantly reduce excess loom capacity. Otherwise,
given weak world demand for manufactured jute products, average capacity utilization in the
industry would have remained too low and there would have not been scope for fresh capital
investments in the sector in Bangladesh. This would have made it extremely difficult for even the
most efficient mills to become profitable. IDA's position was that the privatization program
should be subject to the market test, and that given the above factors a possible outcome could be
substantial capacity retrenchment. On the other hand, the GOB agreed to go ahead with the
privatization program based on the expectation that there would be substantial interest by investors
and the new owners would continue to operate the mills as such. The initial results of the tenders
and the discussions between the bidders and the GOB showed that only a few investors were
interested in bidding and that their intention was to use the properties for other uses. These results
discouraged further the GOB about going ahead with the Program.
18.    The Program should have concentrated more effort on making an assessment of the
potential for privatizing the public jute mills and designing the privatization strategy accordingly.
It should also have concentrated in making sure that the GOB had in place an adequate
privatization infrastructure and the jute mill privatization program in place prior to attempting the
massive privatization of the mills. A related technical assistance operation provided sufficient
resources to properly support the staffing and operation of the Privatization Board, but in
retrospect this clearly was not enough. During most of the implementation period there was little
political and technical leadership at the Board level, while the consulting work hired to assist with
the privatization process was unsatisfactory. Another factor that slowed down the privatization
efforts was the fact that at the time of Program design it was not yet possible for IDA to finance
discipline was thought by the Panel as having at least the virtue of meeting some of the Requesters' concerns. In this
context, the Panel thought that an investigation would have served no useful purpose.
4 JUMS was initiated by the Ministry of Jute under EEC funding to prepare a comprehensive action plan to
restructure the jute industry in Bangladesh. IDA assisted the Ministry if Jute in an advisory capacity in designing and
monitoring the study. In addition, IDA carried out its own research to enrich the knowledge about the sector on those
areas where JUMS was weak (e.g., export marketing, retrenchment of excess workers, financial restructuring, and
restructuring of BJC).
s The IDA staff recognized from the outset that the jute industry might not be viable. However, it thought that JSAC
would still be justified, if under JSAC losses of the industry were substantially reduced, subsidies were made
explicit, damage of the industry on the financial sector was eliminated, and the industry was downsized in an orderly
way. In retrospect, little of this was accomplished under the Program and the viability of the industry remains to be
established.



- 7 -
directly labor retrenchment. The lack of such mechanism made it difficult for the Ministry of Jute
to obtain timely funding for the retrenchment of jute mill workers. In addition, the Program
underestimated the magnitude of labor-related problems and the volume of financial resources
demanded to conduct proper mill workouts. Perhaps the Program design could have made sure of
including specific wording in the DCA on the need to maintain a satisfactorily financed and
adequately staffed Privatization Board at all times. In addition, the Program could have benefited
from a special purpose fund available for carrying out the expensive and complex workouts
required prior to attempting viable privatization efforts of public mills (e.g., for severance
payments, recapitalization of state credits, etc.). All this is likely to have required the adoption of a
more detailed blueprint for mill privatization in the design of the Program.
19.    Another component of the Program that should have been improved when negotiating the
Program was the one dealing with debt restructuring and grant financing of the mills' temporary
losses. First, the efforts in this area made possible by the GOB support of domestic banks appear
to have been insufficient to restore financial viability to the mills. Second, the financial incentives
provided by the Government to temporarily grant finance operational losses gave in practice the
wrong set of signals. The interim loss financing arrangements for public mills were substantially
higher than for private mills, because the purpose was different. The objective of the loss financing
for public mills was to support the orderly contraction of capacity under public ownership and
avoid their further deterioration prior to privatization. In the case of private mills the objective was
to assist in their rehabilitation as a joint responsibility between the GOB and the mill owners.
However, such arrangement created a non-level playing field unfavorable to private mills. Also,
from today's perspective, the interim financing for public mills could have included a more
discriminating mechanism to select those mills that were most likely to succeed and forced a more
severe adjustment among the most inefficient and biggest money losers. Instead, it adopted a
formula to allocate grants that clearly favored those public mills that had the largest relative losses
to start with creating a disincentive for their closure.
20.    The Program rightly identified the need to include a social safety net for the benefit of
displaced workers that included a severance package and retraining courses to facilitate
reemployment. However, in retrospect, the Program could have included a more comprehensive
analysis of the potential social costs of the adjustment in the jute industry and probably more
importantly for farmers in the countryside. For example, the impact on the farmers of the
transformations in the jute industry was largely ignored by the Program, an issue that was raised
constantly by the GOB as a major impediment to carry out implementation according to the
scheduled timetable. Also, the experience with the Hafiz Textile Mills, targeted.for privatization in
connection with the floating tranche, shows that a "golden handshake", more generous than the
legal two months of basic wages for every year in service, covering all workers and not only those
to be retrenched, was necessary to make a divestiture of this mill acceptable to its employees. In
practice, the task of retrenching workers in public mills was much more difficult to accomplish and
its budgetary impact much steeper than originally projected.
21.    The retraining of separated workers was another issue that perhaps could have been
addressed in the more general context of a program covering all state enterprises. In the case of the
Program, the two-week retraining course received by each of those retrenched had a cost equivalent
to some seven months worth of wages, which in retrospect was excessive for the benefits received
by the retrained workers. This retraining program was to some extent of a pilot nature and covered
about 8,000 workers or about half of the initially targeted number. Given the permanent need of
retraining in a country like Bangladesh, which urgently requires to develop a more skilled and



-8 -
diversified labor force, the retraining of public sector employees appears to be better addressed in
the context of a permanent and cost-effective program designed to this effect.
E. IDA's Performance
22.    From the narrower perspective of IDA performance, the identification made by the staff
was good since it covered all factors responsible for deterioration of the jute industry in
Bangladesh, as identified under an IDA study on Jute Sector Reform (para. 17). These were the:
(a) negative impact on jute mills of declining world demand and weak prices; (b) dominant role of
the public sector in jute manufacturing, marketing and trading; (c) negative effect of government
intervention on public and private mills through export rationing, wage increases, export and
interest subsidies and bans on private mill closures; (d) distressed financial situation of public and
private mills resulting from the combination of the above factors; and (e) system of mandatory
credit that affected adversely the commercial banks and insulated the mills from the mounting
financial pressures (MOP, paras. 55-58).
23.    Concerning project design, the diagnostic made by IDA was translated into a
comprehensive package of specific reforms that formed part of JSAC conditionality. These
reforms, which addressed in detail the issues raised during the diagnostic work, included (para. 7):
(a) raw jute trade liberalization through the closure of BJC; (b) capacity rationalization through
jute mill closures; (c) improved governance by increasing private participation in the sector under
the privatization program and elimination of government intervention; (d) cost reduction by
restructuring the debt of private and public mills and reducing the labor force in public mills; (e)
improved financial discipline by establishing a system of declining subsidies and eliminating
mandatory credit; and (f) alignment of factor and product markets by delinking wages in the
private mills from those of public mills and freezing wages in public mills. In spite of the in-depth
coverage under the JSAC, improvements could have been made in two of these areas. The first one
concerns the privatization program. IDA could have made a more thorough analysis of the
privatization potential of the public mills pernitting the design of a more realistic program (para.
18). It should be mentioned that the program design provided the flexibility to adjust the program
during implementation. It was for this purpose that a floating tranche under the program had the
objective of testing whether the tender conditions were appropriate, so that these could be modified
for the remaining tenders. However, some limitations would have occurred under this mechanism,
since modifying the tenders may have required to obtain additional funds as in the case of requiring
further labor retrenchment or additional debt restructuring. Another issue, was the difference in
perception between IDA and the GOB concerning the size of the industry that may have resulted
after completion of the Program (para. 17). IDA correctly considered that the ultimate size of the
industry should be determined by the market and that a reduction in total output was a possible
outcome. The GOB agreed to the Programn with the more optimistic perception that the total
output of the jute industry would at least remain constant. They were not ready to accept the
closure of most public mills or their use for other purposes, as would have been the case if they
would have gone ahead with the privatization process (the few private investors that participated in
the tenders were mainly interested in the land properties and not in the jute mills which would have
been closed in their majority). The second area concerns the loss financing component. Although
higher subsidies provided to public mills than private mills were intended to bring the former in
working conditions to the point of privatization, their unintended effect was to create an uneven
playing field between public and private mills, which resulted in a reduction of the share of the
private sector in the jute industry (para. 12). In addition a more selective mechanism could have
been established for subsidies to the public mills in order to avoid encouraging the worse



-9 -
performing mills to continue operations (para. 19).
24.    As to IDA's decision to go ahead with the program, this was based in its strong
commitment to support the GOB's agenda of structural reforms with the objective of ensuring
macroeconomic stability and shifting toward a market-determined externally oriented economy.
The JSAC formed part of a number of adjustment operations covering: fiscal reform (PRMAC),
financial sector reform (FSAC), trade liberalization (ISAC II), and reduction of the Government
role in industry (JSAC) (MOP, paras.52-54). IDA recognized the risk that JSAC may fail due to
the considerable political difficulties that the GOB would face in sustaining its initial reform efforts
(MOP, para. 110), but considered that the benefits associated with a successful outcome justified
its strong support (MOP, para. 112). To reduce this risk IDA frontloaded the loan conditionality
prior to Board presentation. It also included a floating tranche designed to encourage and test the
commitment of the authorities to implement the privatization program and test their willingness to
adapt the conditions of sale of the jute mills to make these attractive to the private sector.
Furthermore, disbursements under the second and third tranches were to be made subject to
concrete results, which included the privatization/closure of the public mills as main conditions.
25.    As to IDA's performance during implementation, the agreed program design and the
political environment in Bangladesh largely determined this. Perhaps a more decisive stand should
have been taken by IDA on an early cancellation of the Program once it became clear by mid- 1995
that the political climate and lack of will by the GOB made the implementation of the Program
unlikely. After the political climate deteriorated further in early 1995, supervision missions from
headquarters were halted, but discussions between the Finance Minister and IDA management
continued to take place, concluding with the desirability of maintaining the Program with the
expectation that implementation would continue once the situation improved. Also, close contacts
and dialog with Government officials were maintained through the Resident Mission, which spent a
significant amount of time doing a continuous follow up of this important program of reform.
26.   Then, after the arrival of the current Administration in mid-1996, supervision missions
were immediately reactivated and efforts were made to reach a revised implementation schedule
with the GOB in the context of the Program's Mid-term Review. The relatively large amount of
staff/weeks dedicated to supervision during this period illustrates the significant efforts made to
rescue the Program. IDA saw the Mid-term Review as a test of the.political will and commitment
to the reform of the sector by the incoming Administration. By September 1996 an action plan was
in place that, given the poor implementation record up to then, emphasized decisive up-front
actions by the GOB on the privatization and mill closing fronts. Thus, an agreement was reached
on a revised implementation schedule with emphasis on decisive up-front actions in these two areas
as well as on the disposal of redundant assets and the strengthening of the privatization program.
These actions were pre-conditions to recommend to IDA management the extension of JSAC
beyond December 1996 -and which the GOB requested to be for two additional years. The actions
taken by the new Administration prior to the original Closing Date felt short of what was required
but indicated willingness to move ahead with the Program -mainly through renewed, but failed,
efforts to sell mills to the private sector. Thus, IDA accepted a six-month extension to give more
time to the new Administration to act on the agreed up-front actions. However, when no
substantive progress was achieved again during the six-month extension period, IDA decided to
close JSAC on the revised scheduled date of June 30, 1997.
27.   In retrospect, the point to be raised is whether IDA should have extended the Program or
should have acted to cancel JSAC much earlier. Similarly, it could be argued that perhaps at the



- 10 -
time of the Mid-term Review an in-depth review of the Matrix of Policy Actions should also have
been attempted with a view of changing the Program's conditions and design. After all, there were
practically no chances of meeting the list of actions required for the second and third tranches and
it was apparent at that time that a major revision of the developmental strategy for the sector was
required. JSAC's cancellation would have been quite drastic in particular in view that the new
Administration had indicated its willingness to go ahead with the Program.. On balance and with
today's hindsight, it appears that the decision by IDA management of not canceling JSAC, but
insisting on up-front conditions in the Mid-term Review was correct. From IDA's viewpoint there
was also little advantage in arriving at an elaborate new Program design, unless the GOB would be
able to gather the necessary political momentum to take the initial steps on the long road towards
meaningful sector reform. Thus, on balance, implementation by IDA was carried out
satisfactorily, given the constraints faced during this stage.
F. Borrower's Performance
28.    From the perspective of the Ministry of Jute, IDA's government counterpart and the
Program's executing agency, JSAC was a difficult and complex operation. It must be
acknowledged that the Borrower implemented difficult measures at the beginning of the Program,
but had difficulties in maintaining momentum of the reform. It indicated its difficulties to gather
support for a Program that had the potential to cause large-scale unemployiment and to unbalance
the economy, not only in the jute industry but also in the socially crucial agricultural sector.
Confronted with the options of a rapid privatization of public mills or close them down, it felt that
the Program really implied to do away with jute and the jute industry. This feeling was enhanced
by the perception that the private sector was not in a financial position to take over the jute mills
that BJMC was supposed to divest. At the end, the choice of the GOB was always in favor of
maintaining the production capacity of the jute industry, even at the cost of new subsidies. It was
accepted that from the beginning of the industry in the early fifties this was dependent on artificial
measures and subsidies from the GOB. In summary, the prevailing view among those in the GOB
most closely involved with Program implementation was that the jute industry was to continue
operating at the same levels for both political and social reasons. Given the uncertainty associated
with the outcome of the Program and the high political risks involved, the tendency in both
Administrations that participated in the implementation of JSAC, was to muddle through the best
they could. They were quite conscious of the desirability to reform the sector and reduce its losses,
but quite unable to come up with alternative plans to reconcile the conflicting interests of financial
viability with the maintenance of traditional levels of employment and production in the sector.
29.    From the point of the Borrower, the outcome of these dilemmas clearly translated into
political paralysis and lack of political will to move forward with the actions agreed in the context
of the DCA. With today's hindsight, it is not surprising then that the GOB implementation
performance was highly unsatisfactory. Table 7, which gives a detailed list of those actions that
were expected to be taken under the Program, shows the high degree of non-compliance with it.
Also discouraging was the GOB unwillingness or inability to even carr; out some actions that did
not involve a great deal of political courage, such as the privatization of one mill required as part
of the floating tranche conditionality or the divestiture of assets and liquidation of BJC. The poor
implementation record under JSAC also contrasts greatly with the genuine efforts made by the
GOB to gather information and prepare the program of reformn for the jute industry, and which
culminated with the decisive actions taken prior to Board presentation. All this points in the
direction that the problems encountered during implementation went beyond an absence of political
will, involving also institutional and technical deficiencies in the irnplementation effort. This



- I1 -
favors the view that with a stronger commitment by the Borrower much more progress could have
been achieved under JSAC towards the recovery of the jute mill industry in Bangladesh.
G. Assessment of Outcome and Program Sustainability
30.    Tahe outcome of the Program is highly unsatisfactory as this failed to achieve any of its
major objectives and it is not expected to yield worthwhile developmental results. However, there
were some accomplishments under the Program, as illustrated by the meeting of the pre-Board
conditionality and, during implementation, the bank debt restructuring, the training of over 16,000
mill workers, and the introduction of a mandatory retirement age of 65 years for all public
employees. Also, there was a moderate improvement in the financial discipline of the sector, as
state banks started to provide financing to private and public mills on the basis of bank to client
relationship and at market rates. Some of these gains, however, are far from being irreversible and
still depend on the political will of the Administration. This is illustrated by the recent surge in
temporary and permanent new positions in public mills, and which are in clear conflict with a spirit
of reform in these state enterprises. Also, there is a well-founded concern that the lack of progress
in reducing losses in the jute sector will continue to expose the GOB to heavy political and social
pressures to resume subsidization of public and private mills through the commercial banking
system. This would reverse one of the few accomplishments of the Program, such as the
introduction of market practices and a higher degree of financial discipline in the relationship
between jute mills and their bankers.6
31.    Given the lack of progress in advancing on the agreed actions during the implementation
stage, little sustainability can be expected to be derived from the Program. Since the major
objectives were not attained, there are just but a few achievements to be maintained. Rather, the
future of the jute mill industry remains plagued with uncertainties about its viability; and this is
likely to stay operating in the short and medium-run solely by extracting additional government
support and the application of arbitrary policy measures. Without this it is likely to enter into a
financial crisis that could have important social and political repercussions, not to mention the
negative impact on the public banking system, a major creditor of the industry and which today
presents clear signs of financial distress. It remains crucial and urgent that the GOB persists in
defining and executing a comprehensive program for a sustainable rehabilitation of the jute
industry based on market policies and focused on a dominant participation by the private sector.
However, at this stage of deterioration in the jute mill industry, it is essential to start by re-
assessing carefully the real potential and viability of existing capacity and of the industry in
general. This could end up being a sobering exercise for the GOB, but it is likely to provide solid
underpinnings and realistic basis to any new rehabilitation attempt of the industry.7
H. Key Lessons Learned
32.    Several lessons can be derived from the JSAC Program. Some of them already have been
suggested in the course of earlier text. The purpose of this section is to highlight some of the key
lessons that can be helpful in future IDA operations in Bangladesh or, more generally, in future
work in the area of industrial policy reform and privatization.
6 In fact, the GOB recently provided one billion taka to BJMC to buy raw jute, a financial support that can be
justified on purely social and political basis, since this company currently is not creditworthy.
7 Although IDA is not currently considering further financial support to reform the jute industry, it is prepared, at the
GOB' s request, to continue providing policy advice in this area..



- 12 -
33.    Political commitment by the borrower and its internalization of the program of reform.
This is clearly the necessary condition for successful credits or any other tvpe of IDA operations.
The lesson here is that no matter how consistent and rational a program of reform is, its final
outcome requires the total commitment of the borrower and, in particular, of the involved
government agencies. In this respect, perhaps more progress could have been made with a more
careful selection of the executing agencies (e.g., Ministry of Finance instead of Ministry of Jute).
Also, a proper institutional setup for Program implementation should be in place prior to its
effectiveness (this would have been desirable in the case of the Privatization Board).
34.   IDA and the Borrower should Reach a Common Understanding about the Possible
Program Outcome. A common ground as to the possible outcome of a Program is important to
diminish the possibility that implementation would be stopped. In the case of JSAC, the GOB's
political difficulties in implementing the Program became compounded with its apprehension that
the size of the industry may shrink, which it had not contemplated initially when agreeing to the
Program.
35.    The privatization of public enterprises requires the design of an elaborate plan. Since a
successful privatization program for public jute mills was central to JSAC, this issue should have
been addressed in considerably more detail and approached from a broader perspective than that in
the original Program design. To be successful in the privatization of technically non-attractive,
money-losing state enterprises, such as jute mills in Bangladesh, the privatization effort should
have been approached more innovatively than the standard open tendering system. This would
have required an assessment of the privatization possibilities of the mills, and a detailed
privatization strategy based on such assessment. It would have defined what could be expected
under the Program and also attract a broader spectrum of bidders, since these were largely absent
in the innumerable bidding attempts of public mills by the GOB.
36.    Transitional financing of loss making enterprises requires careful targeting. The
experience of the Program on the temporary grant financing ofjute mill losses illustrates the need
to provide resources to those entities that show willingness and ability to tum themselves around
and become financially viable. In the Program, although the rationale for the subsidies to public
mills was to keep these in operation until their time of privatization or closure, the levels provided
also created a disincentive for these mills to increase efficiency and reduced the pressure on the
Government to go ahead with their privatization or closure. The GOB incurred heavy losses under
the Program that will not be recovered and that could have been better used in supporting other
needs related to the industry's recovery, such as the provision of financial support to cover large
labor severance payments associated with privatization. The lesson here is that subsidy schemes
applied without a clear focus on promoting economic efficiency tend to slow the adjustment
process and increase supply-side distortions.
37.    The social safety net program for retrenched public workers should have an economy wide
coverage. In cases of significant downsizing of installed industrial capacity, it is important to
provide a social safety net for the benefit of displaced workers as was recognized under the
Program. However, it is also important to consider ways to mitigate the adverse effects of the
industrial restructuring on the livelihood in the associated sectors, e.g. farners in the case of jute
mill restructuring.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2567-BD)
Part II.: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                       a                               Ed
Sector Policies                      a              E                                   a
Financial Objectives                E               E                                   Ea
Institutional Development           E                                 E a       
Physical Objectives                 E                                 El a
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                 E                I?
Gender Issues                       I]              [                E]
Other Social Objectives              Q                               El                 El
Environmental Objectives             Q              f                 E                 0
Public Sector Management            El               ElEl
Private Sector Development          E               E                                   El
Other (specify)                     Cl                l                  
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
El                       0                          El



- 14 -
(Continued)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                       satisfactory            Satisfactorv                Deficient
(V/)                      (V)                         (V)
Identification                         a                                                     Lii
Preparation Assistance                El                                                     []
Appraisal                             C                                                     []i
Supervision                                                     bCl
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                         satisfactory     Satisfactorv      Deficient
Preparation                                     [                                 EC
Implementation                                  E                 al
Covenant Cornpliance                             5                a]
Operation (if applicable)                        C               []               E
Highly                                                Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome                 satisfactory    Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv     unsatisfactor
El               El                E
8Appraisal is considered marginally satisfactory due to: (a) the failure in reaching a clear understanding with the
Govenmnent about the possible outcomes of the program concerning the final size of the industry; (b) the lack of
a strategy to address the reform's potential negative effect on farmers.



- 15 -
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/credit title              Purpose               Year of           Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Jute Industry         To increase efficiency and      May 1980           Closed
Rehabilitation (Cr. 1032-    organizational structure of the jute         June 1986
BD)                       industry.
2. Industrial Sector      Policy and institutional changes to   June 1987  Closed in
Adjustment Credit         boost exports, improve SOEs and                  May 1989
(Cr. 1816-BD)             begin financial sector reform.
3. Sixth Technical        Strengthening capacity in various    July 1992   On-going
Assistance Credit (Cr. 2393   areas of governance.
BD)
4. Second Industrial Sector   Further trade policy reform,  October         Closed
Adjustment Credit         export promotion, and             1992        December 1994
(Cr. 2427.-BD)            deregulation to promote private
sector development.
Following operations
None
Table 3: JSAC Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Actual Date
Tdentification (Executive Project Srimmnry)      Mar/Apr 1991
Preparation                                     Mav 91 - Oct. 92
Appraisal                                     Nov/Dec. 1992 (first)
Feb/Mar. 1993 (second)
Negotiations ( in two stages)               July 1993. Nov/Dec. 1993
Letter of Development Policy                      Dec. 23. 1993
Board Presentation                                Feb. 17 1994
Signing                                           Feb. 25. 1994
Effectiveness                                     Apr. 5. 1994
First Tranche Release                            Sept. 14. 1994
Midterm review                                    Jul/Aug 1996
Second Tranche Release                              Canceled
Third Tranche Release                               Canceled
Proiect Completion                                Jun. 30 1997
Credit Closing                                    Jun. 30. 1997



- 16 -
Table 4: JSAC Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
FY94          FY95        FY96        FY97
Appraisal Estimate                35.00          125.00     125.00       175.00
Actual                             0.00           37.41      37.41        37.41
Actual as % of Estimate            0              30%        30%          21%
Date of Final Disbursement        March 2, 1995
Table 5: Dates of Tranche Disbursement
Tranche                                Date
First                            March 2, 1995
Floating                           not released
Second                             not released
Third                             not released
Table 6: Program Financing
Source            Appraisal         Actual/Latest
Estimate (US$M)    Estimate(US$M)
IBRD/lDA                    247.0               49.4
IDA Reflows                  0.0                3.3
Domestic Contribution       n.a.                n.a.
TOTAL *                   247.0               52.7
n.a.= not available
* = excluding domestic contribution



- 17 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants and Conditionality
Section      Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment Present                  Description of                                  Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected         date       status                covenant
type          date
1.01 (b)   General condition   Not later                ?    Not later than 6 months after the Closing  The actual Closing Date of JSAC was June 30, 1997.
than                           Date, the Borrower shall prepare and  Initially, JSAC was scheduled to close at year-end 1996. The
6/30/97                          furnish IDA an evaluation report on the   report furnished by the GOB has been included in the
execution of the Program.            Appendix of this ICR as the contribution of the Borrower.
3.01 (a)   Project                                      C     The Borrower shall furnish IDA a report  Several of these reports prepared by the GOB are in the
implementation                                      on the progress achieved in carrying out  IDA's files at Headquarters.
the Program prior to each exchange of
views carried out from time to time.
3.03 (b)   Accounts/audits                             CD    The Borrower shall furnish IDA, not later Copies of these audited reports are in the IDA files at
than 9 months after the end of each fiscal  Headquarters. The last one, for FY 1996, was supplied in
year, certified copies of audited reports in  June 1997. There is still one report pending on the Program,
accordance with appropriate auditing  for FY 1997, which is due by March 31, 1998.
principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
FLOATING TRANCHE
Schedule 1.4 Macroeconomic     3/31/95                          Macroeconomic policy framework of the   There was no formal evaluation of this since the Borrower
(B) (i)   policy                                              Borrower is consistent with the Program.  did not take sector specific actions required prior to the
conditionality                                                                           release of this tranche.
Schedule 1.4 Sectoral policy   3/31/95                   NC    Satisfactory progress in carrying out the   The floating tranche was never disbursed, in part because
(B) (ii)   conditionalty                                      Program.                              IDA considered that progress in carrying out the Program was
not satisfactory.
Schedule 5.1 Sector policy     12/31/94                   CP    The Borrower has offer for sale to the  In February 1995, the GOB tendered four jute mills for sale.
(a)     conditionality                                      private sector a public jute mill under    It received an offer for Hafiz Textile Mills which met all
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA   conditions, but it decided to suspend the transfer. Until the
and taken all such measures as may be    Closing Date, the GOB was still negotiating with the winning
necessary for purposes of implementing   bidder the terms and conditions for the completion of the
such sale transaction.               sale. One problem was erroneous information in bidding
documents.



- 18 -
Section      Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment  Present                   Description of                                  Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected          date       status                 covenant
type          date
Schedule 5.1 Sector policy      3/30/95                   CP    The Borrower, where no tenders are     There were several additional attempts by the Privatization
(b)     conditionality                                       received or those received are not    Board to privatize mills, which in most cases generated
responsive, has revised the terms and  scarce response from private parties. Moreover, the GOB
conditions of such offer; and taken   decided not to accept any of the offers made.
adequate steps to make such mill
attractive for privatization.
Schedule 5.2 Sector policy     12/31/94     8/31/96        C     The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  Debt restructuring was implemented for all public mnills.
conditionality                                       concluded satisfactory arrangements, for
restructuring the debt owed to them by the
public jute mnill referred to in Schedule 5. I
(a). 
Schedule 5.3 Sector policy      3/31/95                   CP    The Borrower has compensated PBs, in    Condition met for private banks, but not for public banks,
conditionality                                       accordance with satisfactory criteria for   which still are to be compensated adequately, according to
the restructuring of the debt of public jute  the GOB's own guidelines, for the debt write-offs they
mill, pursuant to Schedule 5.2, through    undertook.
the issuancc of bonds.
Schedule 5.4 Sector policy      3/31/95                    C     The Borrower has ensured that working   All mills, public and private, received interim grant
(a)     conditionality                                       capital requiremcnts and operational  financing, which allowed them to continue to operate despite
losses of the public jute mill referred to in heavy losses. In the specific case of Hafiz Tcxtile Mills, the
Schedule 5.1 are not financed by PBs  formal test of whether the GOB adhered to the methodology
except according to agreed timetable and  agreed with IDA was supposed to be conducted prior to the
amounts.                             floating tranche release, which never took place. However,
by and large, the agreed actions were met.
Schedule 5.4 Sector policy      3/31/95                    C     The Borrower has ensured that except as  By and large, this action was satisfactorily met, although a
(b)     conditionality                                       provided in Schedule 5.4 (a), no      formal review was scheduled to take place prior to the tinme
additional financial support is made  of tranche release, which never came.
available to cover operational losses of the
public jute mill referred to in Schedule
5.1.
Schedule 5.4 Sector policy      3/31/95                   CP    The Borrower has fully reimbursed the    The GOB implemenited this action to a large extent, although
(c)     conditionality                                       PBs for their interim financing of the  there are still some bonds that have not been issued by the
operational losses of the public jute mill   GOB in connection. with the agreed compensation schcme for
referred in Schedule 5.1, in accordanice   the interim financing provided by l'Bs.
,________-  _ _        ____         with Schedule 5.4 (a).



- 19 -
Section      Covenant/    Original Fulfillment Present                 Description of                                 Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected        date       status               covenant
type          date
Schedule 5.5 Sector policy    3/31/95                   NC    The Borrower has maintained a        The public mills wage policies of the GOB continued to be
conditionality                                    macroeconomic framework including    dictated by the general wage policy for public employees,
wage policies in the jute sector    which was considerably more generous than the agreed policy
satisfactory to IDA with the objective of   of refraining from nominal wage increases in the jute industry
restoring and maintaining profitability in  until the viability of the mills was restored.
this industry.                       ___
SECOND TRANCHE
Schedule 1.4 Macroeconomic    3/31/95                         Macroeconomic policy framework of the   There was no formal evaluation of this since the Borrower
(A) (i)   policy                                            Borrower is consistent with the Program   did not take other actions required prior to the release of this
conditionality                                                                         tranche.
Schedule 1.4 Sectoral policy  3/31/95                   NC    Satisfactory progress in carrying out the   The second tranche was never released as many of the actions
(A) (ii)   action                                           Program.                             required for this were not completed by the GOB.
Nonetheless, IDA considered that overall progress in carrying
out the program was unsatisfactory.
Schedule 3.1 Sectoral policy  6/30/94                   CP    The Borrower has disposed of the     There was some progress in selling closed mill assets.
(a)     action                                             equipment of public mills closed and/or   Purbachal Jute Mills was sold to a foreign investor, which
downsized under the program.        bought the facilities to produce yam with newly imported
equipment. The other three public jute mills closed under
the Program still have not been sold, in part due to pending
litigation.
Schedule 3.1 Sectoral policy  6/30/94                   NC    The Borrower has reduced loom capacity  BJMC did not close any mills in addition to the four mills
(b)     action                                            in public jute mills by at least 2,700 looms closed prior to the Board presentation of JSAC. Moreover,
through the closure or tendering (followed there was no substantial downsizing of other public mills.
by closure if unsuccessful) of at least 5    Most of the reduction in public sector loomage capacity, from
mills and substantially downsizing at least the initial 16,000 looms to 12,000 looms at the closing of the
one mill.                           Program, was achieved with the initial closure of the four
mills.
Schedule 3.2 Sectoral policy  6/30/94                   CP    The Borrower has reduced the number of  Although the number of permanent workers at the public jute
(a)     action                                             permanent employees in the public jute   mills was initially reduced by some 20,000 following Board
mills by about 8,000.               approval, in FY1996-97 permanent workers increased
significantly once again. BJMC also hired a substantial
number of temporary workers to replace those permanent
workers that left. By the closing date, the total labor force of
BJMC remained unchanged at the level of some 86,500
workers it had in FY1993-94, although some 8,300 workers
at BJMC held temporary positions.



- 20 -
Section      Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment Present                  Description of                                  Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected         date       status                 covenant
type          date
Schedule 3.2 Sectoral policy   3/31/95       1995         C     The Borrower has introduced mandatory   A new mandatory retirement age of 60 years was approved by
(b)     action                                              retirement age for workers in the public  the Parliament.
sector.
Schedule 3.3 Sectoral policy   3/31/95       1994         C     The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  PBs wrote off 30% of the due amount in 1994. Private banks
(a)     action                                              forgiven and written off 30% of the debt  were compensated with bonds by the GOB.
owed to them by BJC.
Schedule 3.3 Sectoral policy   6/30/94       1994         C     The Borrower has fully discharged, on    The GOB issued 25-year bonds to compensate banks for BJC
(b)     action                                              behalf of BJC, its remaining outstanding   debts.
debt obligations to PBs and other public
and private banks.
Schedule 3.4 Sectoral policy   6/30/94       1994         C     The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  PBs wrote off 30% of the due amount in 1994. Private banks
(a)     action                                              forgiven and written off 30% of the debt  were compensated with bonds by the GOB.
owed to them by the public jute mills
closed under the Program.
Schedule 3.4 Sectoral policy   6/30/94       1994         C     The Borrower has fully discharged, on  The GOB paid off 70% of the total outstanding debts of
(b)     action                                              behalf of the public jute mills closed  closed mills with NCBs and 100% of their debts with private
under the Program, their remaining   banks using Treasury Bonds of 25- year maturity.
outstanding debt obligations to PBs and
other public and private banks.
Schedule 3.5 Sectoral policy   7/31/94                   CP    The Borrower has offered for sale to the   Ninc mills were tendered for sale late 1996-early 1997,
(a)     action                                              private sector at least nine public jutc    including three mills originally slated for closure. Only two
mills.                               offers were received, but were considered too low by the
GOB and no awards were actually made.
Schedule 3.5 Sectoral policy   10/31/94                  NC    The Borrower has reduced its share in  Currently, BJMC has a capacity of some 12,000 looms.
(b)     action                                              total loom capacity in the jute industry to
not more than 7,000 looms.
Schedule 3.6 Sectoral policy   12/31/94                  CP    The Borrower has completed the         Only a fraction of the 221 properties of BJC were divested
action                                             liquidation of BJC.                   prior to the Closing Date. Moreover, there are still a
significant number of staff still employed by the shell
company managing the remaining assets.
Schedule 3.7 Sectoral policy   12/31/94      1994         C     The Borrowcr has ensured that PBs have  Although these five mill were not closed as anticipated in the
action                                              concluded arrangements for restructuring  context of the Program, their debts as those of other public
the debt owed to them by the public jute   mills wcre restructured according to the agreed guidelines.
mills referred to in Schedule 3.5 (a).



-21 -
Section      Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment Present                  Description of                                  Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected         date       status                covenant
type          date
Schedule 3.8 Sectoral policy   12/31/94      1994         C     The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  The debt write off and restructuring packages for private
(a)     action                                              concluded debt restructuring arrangements mills were the same as those offered to public mills. The
with those private jute mills that have  grants supplied to private mills under the interim financial
agreed to participate in the debt write off, arrangement, on the other hand, were less generous than
restructuring and interim financing  those provided to public mills.
arrangement under the Program.
Schedule 3.8 Sectoral policy   12/31/94      1994         C     The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  There was no need to start such proceedings since all private
(b)     action                                              instituted legal proceedings for debt  jute mills became beneficiaries of the financial package
recovery against those private jute mills   offered under the Program.
that have refused to participate in the
financing arrangement offered under the
Program.
Schedule 3.9 Sectoral policy   12/31/94                   CP    The Borrower has compensated PBs      The GOB compensated private banks fully with bonds, but
action                                              satisfactorily through issuance of bonds,   not the NCBs. It had been agreed that the NCBs were going
for the write off of the debt of BJC and of to be compensated according with their overall capitalization
the public mills closed under the Program, needs. Even though the capital base of NCBs was
and for the restructuring of the debt of    significantly weakened by the debt relief arranged for jute
private mills and those offered for  mills, the GOB decided not to compensate NCBs for the
privatization.                       losses arising from the debt write offs until a future NCB
restructuring program takes place.
Schedule  Sectoral policy    Ongoing                    NC    The Borrower has ensured that beginning  Because of the lack of progress in the privatization of public
3.10 (a)   action                                             July 1, 1993, working capital         mills, the amount of interim financing provided to public
requirements and operational losses of    mills was considerably more than originally visualized under
jute mills are not financed by PBs except  the Program. In addition, the subsidies provided by the GOB
for such acceptable periods and up to an  to public mills went beyond those allowed under the formula
estimated amount in accordance with a    agreed in the context of the DCA.
methodology satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule  Sectoral policy    Ongoing                    NC    The Borrower has ensured that except as  Because of the delays in program implementation and
3.10 (b)   action                                             provided in Schedule 3.10 (a), no     pressures from BJMA, the GOB decided to extend the loss
additional financial support is made  financing for private jute mills for six more months through
available to cover operational losses of the the end of June, 1995. This extension of the interim
public and private jute mills without the   financing to private mills was not agreed with IDA.
prior agreement of IDA.



- 22 -
Section      Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment  Present                   Description of                                  Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected          date       status                 covenant
type          datel
Schedule    Sectoral policy   Ongoing                           The Borrower has ensured that public jute This did not apply since no public mills were privatized
3.10 (c)   action                                              mills sold under the Program continue to  under the Program.
receive interim finanicing to cover
operational losses from PBs according to
the formula agreed for private mills.
Schedule  Sectoral policy     Ongoing                   NC    The Borrower has ensured that those     No public mill was declared ineligible for interim financing
3.10 (d)   action                                              public jute mills that have not been  despite the fact that no mills were privatized. Consequently,
offered for sale under the Program in  the amount of interim financing actually provided to public
accordance with the timetable provided to mills resulted in a considerably higher figure than originally
IDA have been declared ineligible by the  projected in the context of the Program.
PBs for receiving interim financing for
working capital and operational losses.
Schedule   Sectoral policy    Ongoing                   NC    The Borrower has ensured that those     The GOB did not close any mills despite the fact that
3.10 (e)   action                                              public jute mills that have not reduced    preliminary figures from BJMC show losses above the 85%
their operational losses during FY94-95 to ceiling for several of the public mills in FY94-95.
at least 85% of the level of such losses
during the previous liscal Year are
closed.
Schedule   Sectoral policy    Ongoing                   NC    The Borrower has ensured that beginning  See comment to Schedule 3.10 (b).
3.10 (D)   action                                              Dcc. 31, 1994, PBs have terminated all
interim financing of working capital and
operational losscs of the privatized jute
mills and other private jute mills undcr
the financing arrangemcnt of the Program.
Schedule   Sectoral policy    12/31/94                  CP    T'he Borrower has filly reimbursed PBs   Some of the NCBs still have not received a full
3.10 (g)   action                                              for their interim financing of'the    rcimbursement from the GOB for the interim financing they
operational losses of the private and  providcd to jute mills. This has reduced the availability of
public jute mills in accordance with the   working capital for some of the mills allowed under the
finanicinig arrangement of the Program.    current prudential guidelines of the BB.
Schedule   Sectoral policy   12/31/94       1994         C     'I'he Borrower has ensured that BB has    These prudcntial guidelines were timely issued. By and
3.11    action                                               issued new, satisfactory prudential   large, PBs adhered to them, although some of the NCBs
guidelines, to govcrn all lending by public surpasscd the exposure lending ceilings recommended by the
and private banks to jute mills with effect guidclines -in part duc to GOB delays in providing thcm
from January 1, 1995.                with adequate compensation in the form of Goverment's
bonds..



- 23 -
Section      Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment Present                Description of                                 Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected        date       status               covenant
type         date
Schedule  Sectoral policy   Ongoing                   NC    The Borrower has maintained a        The public mills wage policies of the GOB continued to be
3.12    action                                             macroeconomic framework including   dictated by the general wage policy for public employees,
wage policies in the jute sector    which was considerable more generous than the agreed policy
satisfactory to IDA with the objective of   of refraining from nominal wage increases in the jute industry
restoring and maintaining profitability in  until the viability of the mills was restored.
this industry.
THIRD TRANCHE
Schedule 1.4 Macroeconomic    9/30/96                          Macroeconomic policy framework of the   There was no formal evaluation of this since the Borrower
(A) (i)   policy                                            Borrower is consistent with the Program   did not take other actions required prior to the release of this
conditionality                                                                        third tranche.
Schedule 1.4 Sectoral policy  9/30/96                   NC    Satisfactory progress in carrying out the   The third tranche was never released as many of the actions
(A) (ii)   action                                           program.                             required for this as well as of previous tranches were not
completed by the GOB.
Schedule 4.1 Sectoral policy  6/30/96                   NC    The Borrower has offered for sale to the   Since October 1996 the Privatization Board has tendered
(a)     action                                            private sector at least nine public jute    several mills for sale, but no privatization transaction has
mills in addition to those offered for sale  been completed to date. Currently, the Privatization Board
pursuant to Schedule 3.5 (a).       has a portfolio of 17 jute mills which is expecting to tender in
the period 1997-98.
Schedule 4.1 Sectoral policy  6/30/96                   NC    The Borrower has reduced its share in    The loomage capacity controlled by BJMC is currently some
(b)     action                                            total loom capacity in the jute industry to  12,000 looms in 27 mills under its control.
not more than 4,000 looms.
Schedule 4.2 Sectoral policy  9/30/96                   C     The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  The GOB completed the restructuring of debts of all public
action                                            concluded satisfactory arrangements for  jute mills independently of whether they were listed for
restructuring the debt owed to them by    privatization or not.
public jute mills referred to in Schedule
4.1 (a).
Schedule 4.3 Sectoral policy  9/30/96                   C     The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  Only four mills were closed under the Program -those closed
(a)     action                                            forgiven and written off 30% of the debt  prior to Board presentation. Besides the five mills targeted
owed to them by the public jute mills    for closing under the second tranche, the GOB was supposed
closed under the Program.           to have closed all those mills tendered for sale but that was
unable to sell.



- 24 -
Section     Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment Present                 Description of                                 Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected        date       status               covenant
type          date
Schedule 4.3 Sectoral policy  9/30/96                   C      The Borrower has fully discharged, on    Since the GOB did not close any mills during the
(b)    action                                              behalf of the public jute mills closed  implementation of the Program, this condition ended up
under the Program, their remaining  being identical to that contained in Schedule 3.4 (b).
outstanding debt obligations to PBs and
other public and private banks under
terms satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule 4.4 Sectoral policy  Ongoing                   CP    The Borrower has ensured that PBs have  See comment to Schedule 3.10 (a)
(a)    action                                             continued to refrain from financing the
working capital requirements and
operational losses of public jute mills
except for such acceptable periods and up
to an estimated amount in accordance with
a methodology satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule 4.4 Sectoral policy  Ongoing                   NC    The Borrower has ensured that except as  See comment to Schedule 3.10 (b)
(b)     action                                            provided in Schedule 4.4 (a), no
additional financial support is made to
cover operational losses of the public jute
mills without the prior approval of IDA.
Schedule 4.4 Sectoral policy  Ongoing                  Not   The Borrower has ensured that public jute This did not apply since no public mills were privatized
(c)    action                                    applicab. mills sold under the Program do not  under the Program.
continue to receive interim financing from
PBs under the formula agreed for public
jute mills.
Schedule 4.4 Sectoral policy  Ongoing                  NC    The Borrower has ensured that those   See comment to Schedule 3.10 (d)
(d)    action                                             public jute mills that have not been
offered for sale under the Program in
accordance with the timetable provided to
IDA have been declared ineligible by PBs
for receiving interim financing for
working capital and operational losses.
Schedule 4.4 Sectoral policy  Ongoing                  NC    The Borrower has ensure that those public The GOB did not close any mills despite the fact that
(e)    action                                             jute mills that do not reduce their  preliminary figures from BJMC show losses above the 85%
operational losses during FY95-96 to at   ceiling for several of the public mills in FY95-96.
least 85% of the level of such losses
during the previous fiscal year are closed.



- 25 -
[Section        Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment  Present                 Description of                                  Comments
lof DCA    Conditionality  expected           date       status                covenant
type          date
Schedule 4.4 Sectoral policy   Ongoing                    C     The Borrower has ensured that, beginning The interim financing arrangement for public mills finished
(f)     action                                              June 30, 1996, PBs have terminated all   at the end of June, 1996 as scheduled. However, the amounts
interim financing of the working capital   spent in subsidies by the GOB were significantly larger than
requirements and operational losses of the oginally expected, mainly because the GOB did not carry
public jute mills under the financing  out the closure and divestiture of jute mills as planned.
arrangement of the Program.
Schedule 4.4 Sectoral policy   9/30/96                    CP    The Borrower has fully reimbursed the    See comments to Schedule 3.10 (g)
(g)     action                                              PBs for their interim financing of the
operational losses of the public jute mills
under the financing arrangement of the
Program.
Schedule 4.5 Sectoral policy   9/30/96                    CP    The Borrower has compensated PBs      See the comments to Schedule 3.9.
action                                              satisfactorily through issuance of bonds,
for the write off of the debt of public mills
closed under the Program, and for the
restructuring of the debt of the additional
nine public mills offered for sale and
referred to in Schedule 4.1 (a).
Schedule 4.6 Sectoral policy   Ongoing                   NC    The Borrower has disposed of the       The GOB never closed the five mills that were part of the
action                                              equipment of the public mills closed  policy actions included for the release of second tranche and
pursuant to Schedule 3.1 (b) and that of   referred to in this Schedule. Also, the GOB has not disposed
downsized mills which is not required any of the equipment that has become redundant as a result of the
longer for their operation.          reduction in operating capacity of BJMC mills.
Schedule 4.7 Sectoral policy   Ongoing                   NC    The Borrower has maintained a          See comment to Schedule 3.12.
action                                              macroeconomic framework including
wage policies in the jute sector
satisfactory to IDA with the objective of
restoring and maintaining profitability in
this industry.



- 26 -
Section      Covenant/    Original  Fulfillment Present                   Description of                                 Comments
of DCA    Conditionality  expected         date       status                 covenant
type          date
Schedule 4.8 Sectoral policy   6/30/96                   NC    The Borrower has formulated a          The rate of interest of thesc bonds was supposed to reflect
action                                              satisfactory methodology, and         market conditions starting from year four on. However, the
implemented where applicable, for    GOB told IDA that because of the high fiscal cost of applying
adjusting the rate of interest on bonds  market rates, there were no plans for the time being to apply
issued under the Program to be applicable a market-based formula to adjust interest rates paid on the
in the fourth and subsequent years from    bonds. According to the Program, this new formula was
date of issue.                       supposed to have been coamnunicated to bond holders not
later than June 30, 1996. However, this did not happen.
C    = covenant complied with
CD=  complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC=  not complied with



- 27 -
Table 8: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of          Actual Staff Weeks            Stage of           Actual Staff Weeks
Project Cycle                                   Project Cycle
Through Appraisal               222.6           Supervision Support to           12.0
Privatization Board
Appraisal-Board                  69.3           Response to Inspection           12.0
p panel
Board-Effectiveness              4.0            Technical Assistance on           8.0
Training/Retraining
Supervision                     107.7
Completion                       10.0           TOTAL                           445.6
Table 9: IDA Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of     Month/    No.    Days   Specialized        Implemen-       Develop
Project Cycle    Year       of      in    Staff Skills       tation        -ment             Types of
Persons   Field   Represented       Status      Objectives         Problems
Through          5/92       2        13    Economist &
Appraisal                                  Financial Sp.
7/92       5       29    Economist,
Financial Sp.,
PSD Sps. &
____________                  Industry  Sp.
Appraisal        2/93       5        21    Economist,
through Board                              Financial Sp.,
Approval                                   PSD Sps. &
.                    ~~~~~~~~Industry Sp.
Board
Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision      4/94       5        12    PSD Sp,.             1                     None
Financial Sp.,
& Economist
7/94       2       20    Program              S            HS       None
Officers
2/95       3       12    PSD Sp. &            U             S       Most second tranche
Program                                    conditions not met
Officer
7/96       6       25    PSD Sp,              U             U       Even under revised
Privatization,                             timetable most second
Financial &                                tranche conditions not
Trade Sps                                  met.
3/97       4       24    Privatization &     HU             U        Same as above
Finance Sps &
Program
Officer
Supervision/     6/97       3       20    PSD Sp, &            HU            HU       Program closed with little
Completion                                 Financial Sp.                              progress in
implementation beyond
first tranche.
HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory; U - unsatisfactory; HTJ - highly unsatisfactory



- 28 -
Appendix A
Bangladesh
Jute Sector Adjustment Credit
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission
June 24 to July 30, 1997
AIDE MIEMOIRE
I. Review of Implementation of the Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (JSAC)
1. This mission conducted the last supervision of the JSAC prior to the June 30, 1997
Closing Date. It also initiated preparation for the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) of the program under JSAC. The mission, comprised by Messrs. Alfredo Dammert
(Task Manager of the Program), Reazul Islam (Senior Project Economist, Resident
Mission) and Claudio Pardo (Consultant), met with officials of the Government, jute mill
sector representatives and officers of domestic banks (see Annex I for the list of
meetings). At a meeting chaired by Dr. A.K.M. Masihur Rahman (Secretary, Economic
Relations Division (ERD), Ministry of Finance) on June 28, 1997, it was agreed that the
extension conditions for JSAC would not be met and that the JSAC credit would
therefore close as scheduled on June 30, 1997. IDA sent a telex to ERD confirming the
closure of JSAC, followed by a letter, dated July 10 , 997 explaining the main reasons
for this action.
2. The JSAC, approved by the IDA Board in December 1993, was programmed to be
disbursed in four tranches, of which only the first one for SDR35 million was disbursed
following effectiveness. In addition, three separate IDA reflows totaling SDR6.71
million were approved, but only the first one for SDR2.41 million was disbursed. The
initial closing date for JSAC was agreed for December 31, 1996. It was later on extended
for an additional six months to June 30, 1997, when the Credit was closed. Although
JSAC is closed, the Govemment has indicated its continued commitment and is preparing
a program to strengthen the reform. IDA will submit a policy note to the Government
that may assist it in developing its program. Meanwhile IDA recommends that the
Govemment ensure that financial discipline be maintained in the jute sector.
IH Preliminary Findings of the ICR Mission
3. The objective of JSAC was to support the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in
carrying out its program of reform for the jute sector. The ultimate objective of the
Government's program was to create a viable, essentially privately-owned jute industry
operating on a commercial basis in a reformed policy environment. The GOB aimed at
completing the reform of the sector in three years, with the program being supported by
JSAC covering the following eight themes: (a) downsizing of the industry through
closures of Bangladesh Jute Corporation (BJC), the public marketing board and public
jute mills; (b) privatization of public jute mills (c) employment rationalization;



- 29 -
(d) restructuring the industry's past debt; (e) reforming wage policies of the industry;
(g) training of workers and managers in jute mills; (g) retraining of affected workers in
jute mills; and (h) elimination of the Government interventions in the jute sector.
Although some specific actions included in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) --
in particular those related to debt restructuring and labor retrenchment -- were
accomplished, key specific actions -- mainly privatization and further closure of public
jute mrrills -- necessary to meet the ultimate objective of the program were not
implemented. Therefore only the first tranche of the Credit was disbursed.
4. The implementation record of the jute sector adjustment program supported by
JSAC shows that little progress was achieved in the efforts to structurally reform the
sector. Furthermore, it could be argued that there has been a reversal, in the sense that the
presence of the public sector in the industry is eveQmore pronounced today than when
the strategy for the reform of the sector supported by JSAC was formulated late in 1993.
The statement of policies by the Government, that was to be the blueprint for the actions
needed to transform the sector, was contained in the letter sent by the GOB to IDA on
December 23, 1993. The original timetable for implementation considered a three-year
horizon for the implementation of the proposed reform and the closing date for JSAC was
agreed for December 31, 1996. Initially, there was a satisfactory degree of progress in
the reform process. Indeed, several important actions were taken by the GOB prior to
Board presentation of the JSAC operation in February 1994. Further progress was made
in the following months and the Credit became effective in April 1994, and soon
thereafter the first tranche was disbursed. However, the agreed actions in connection with
the other three scheduled tranches were taken partially at best. Consequently, JSAC was
closed on June 30, 1997, with the funds allocated to the floating and the second and third
tranches remaining undisbursed.
5. The mid-term review of July 1996, agreed on a revised, more flexible timetable for
the implementation of the actions under JSAC. As stated in the Aide Memoire of the
March/April 1997 supervision mission, the Government got substantially behind schedule
in the revised implementation timetable based on the six-month extension of JSAC's
Closing Date . Furthermore, none of the up-front actions that would have facilitated a
further extension of the closing date focusing mainly on privatization/closure of public
jute mills had been taken, situation that remained unchanged at the arrival of the current
mission. As a result, the JSAC was allowed to lapse without a further extension of the
Closing date of June 30, 1997.
6. Phasing out of BJC. The GOB was expected to complete the legal liquidation of
BJC as part of the second tranche conditionality. Progress in implementing this action is
as follows:
Although BJC is not under operation any longer, liquidation of assets is proceeding
slowly. IDA expected to see the divestiture of at least 100 of these properties during
the first half of 1997, out of a total of 221 initially in the hands of BJC. Little
progress has been achieved, particularly in the last year, as close to 90% of the asset
lots from the former BJC are still to be divested by the MOJ.



- 30 -
* Because of the lack of progress in liquidating the assets of BJC, there is still a
significant number of retained employees still working in the company under
liquidation. This represents a high cost to the Government.
7. Reduction in the Excess Capacity of the Jute Industry. Prior to Board
presentation, four public mills were closed and one downsized, for a total capacity
reduction of 2,000 mills. During JSAC implementation it was expected that besides
disposing of the equipment of the four closed mills, five additional ones were to be closed
and one other downsized, with an additional reduction in capacity of at least 2,700 mills.
Furthermore, the GOB was supposed to dispose of these mills and equipment -ideally
through sales to the private sector. Main results were:
* No further closures of public mills were implemented.
* The assets of only one of the previously closedpublic mills have been transferred and
those of another mill have been awarded.
The lack of further closures of public mills has been a major setback of the program
that expected to reduce drastically public sector loom capacity.
8. Privatization of Public Mills. The JSAC program envisioned a substantial
privatization effort of public mills by the Govermment. The agreement with IDA,
considered a reduction of the installed capacity in public hands to only one jute mill with
no more than 4,000 looms by the end of the three-year implementation of the JSAC
program. In addition to the closure of public mills (para. 6), this was to be accomplished
by the offer for sale to the private sector of at least 19 public jute mills. However, none
of the public mills have been privatized. The status of the privatization program is as
follows:
*  BJMC continues to operate 26 public jute mills. Moreover, while production of
private mills has decreased significantly, with less than 4,000 looms under operation,
public mills have increased their production since JSAC program started, as a result
of the high loss financing subsidies that these mills have received.
*  The GOB has not been able to complete the privatization of any operating jute mill so
far. The closer it has come to do so has been in the case of Hafiz Textile Mills, for
which the tender award was made, although the transfer has been delayed for a variety
of problems that have entangled the process.
*  There are still many causes affecting the privatization process: (i) the recurrent
problems experienced by the privatization process has raised a high degree of
uncertainty among potential bidders; (ii) tender procedures are based on inflexible
norms and rigid accounting standards; (iii) there have been too high minimum price
requirements based on book value of properties and assets; (iv) lack of active
marketing of properties and assets for sale; (v) lengthy and many-layered award
process; (vi) lack of physical access to properties and assets for sale; (vii) high labor
liabilities and wage bills associated with the mills offered for sale; and (viii)
difficulties in structuring the financial package needed for bidding for an operating
public enterprise due to weakness of the financial system in Bangladesh.



- 31 -
Only recently the Privatization Board has received a strongly political backing with
the appointment of a Chairman having the rank of State Minister. Today, the
Privatization Board has 14 jute mills in its list of public companies for privatization
during 1997-98. In spite of the apparently strong backing, the Government has not yet
approved any tender awards for jute mills (beyond the Hafiz Textile Mill awarded in
September 1996 and not yet transferred). Success requires of the widest political and
financial support possible, in conjunction with a better utilization of available technical
support and assistance.
9. Reduction of Excess Employment in BJMC. The initial goal for the JSAC
program was a reduction of at least 20,000 workers in BJMC's labor force. This
component has been accomplished with the following results:
* BJMC was able to successfully reduce its labor force by even a larger amount than
that targeted by the JSAC program. Total labor retrenchment by BJMC was in excess
of 23,000 under JSAC.
10. Restructuring of the Jute Sector Debt and Restoration of Market-Based Credit
Relationships between Mills and Banks. Together with the privatization of mills, this
was a central component of JSAC's matrix of policy actions. In essence, the success of
the JSAC program depended to a large degree on a well coordinated and finely tuned
execution of privatization of public mills supported by a realistic debt relief for the
industry, both private and public. This was necessary to create the basis for a well
balanced and equitable rehabilitation of the industry led by private initiative. It was
meant to return financial viability to the jute mill industry by bringing its debt servicing
in line with the ability of the sector to pay. The debt relief had three sub-components: (i)
a debt rescheduling of two-thirds of past obligations for private and soon-to-be privatized
mills as of June 30,1993 and the debt-forgiveness of the remaining outstanding principal;
(ii) the temporary loss (grant) financing via public subsidies channeled through banks of
losses to be incurred by private (18 months) and public (3 years) mills; and (iii) after the
interim period, the provision by banks of working capital to private and public mills
against the security of mills' projected export revenues and based strictly on market
terms. Against this background, some of the implementation results were:
*  Debt restructuring was completed by participating banks under the terms and
conditions agreed with IDA. For the two-thirds rescheduled debt, jute mills got a 15-
year term, with gradually rising installments, including 3 years of grace for principal
payments. The interest rate was 0% for the first three years and 3% per year
thereafter. Four public and two private banks participated in the debt restructuring
exercise.
*  It is estimated that, on a market basis, the rescheduled debt has a present value of
roughly 50% its face value. Participating banks are expected to absorve the implicit
loss over time. More damaging, however, to the solvency of participating banks is
that this so-called "segregated debt" has been generally non-performing, with only a
minority of the mills (private and public) that benefited from the debt relief servicing



- 32 -
their obligations timely. In the case of one private bank, some additional
rescheduling of private mills debt has taken place.
*  Today, slightly less than half of the private mill are normally on time in the servicing
of their debt obligations with participating banks. The number of public mills in a
similar financial position is much smaller, as most of them continue to show
significant losses.
*  The lack of divestiture of public mills, unanticipated increases in BJMC output and a
six-month extension in loss subsidization of private mills, put the estimates for
interim financing for the period FY1994-96 well above the projections at the
beginning of the JSAC program. There was budgetary support of some US$200
million for the period, versus a projected amount of US$43 million.
* Due to the continued financial deterioration of-the jute industry, banks now acting
under arms-length business practices, are extremely reluctant to replenish the
working capital that the industry badly needs, particularly now that a new, large crop
is coming into the marketplace.
11. This component of JSAC also included other debt related conditionality,
specifically on: (i) the terms and conditions for settlement of bank debts due by BJC and
the public mills that were closed or were projected to be closed; (ii) the compensation of
banks via government bonds for losses related to write-offs associated with the debt relief
given to the jute mill industry, including those related to BJC and closed mills; and (iii)
the issuance of new prudential guidelines to govern all lending by banks to jute mills.
With some exceptions, implementation went as expected:
*  Amounts written-off by participating banks were compensated by GOB with 25-year
bonds. Their interest rate, which initially was 5% p.a., was supposed to be adjusted to
reflect market conditions from the fourth year on. However, this is yet to happen.
Currently, market conditions indicate that the GOB would have to budget about twice
as much to service the interest on the bonds if a market-guided formula were applied
*  A significant amount of claims by participating banks in connection with the interim
financing provided to private jute mills has not been paid by the GOB. In this case,
although the GOB accepts the obligation, it has yet to deliver the three-year bonds
carrying a 7% interest rate. Banks have penalized the private mills by diminishing the
available amounts under the revolving credit lines allowed by BB prudential
guidelines.
*  Currently, banks financing the jute industry are by and large trying to adhere closely
to the maximum individual exposure limits being imposed bv the regulatory
authorities at the BB. However, some of the banks are having difficulties in staying
within the allowed margins due to rising arrears both from the mills and the GOB
(non-reimbursement of interim financing).
12. Maintenance of an Adequate Macroeconomic Framework including Wage
Policies. This was a policy objective that was to be maintained throughout the whole



- 33 -
implementation period of JSAC and tested prior to the release of the second and third
tranches. It was important for the GOB to maintain a macroeconomic environment that
preserved the overall competitiveness of the Bangladeshi economy, including that of the
jute industry. In this respect, it was of particular relevance for the GOB to maintain a
conservative wage policy and an exchange rate policy that preserved the competitiveness
of domestic producers. It was essential that the GOB refrained from awarding further
nominal wage increases until the viability of mills was restored. However, the gains in
labor productivity in publicly operated mills brought about by the reduction the total level
of employment has not been translated in lower production costs, since the gains in wage
and salary increases in BJMC have continued to be in line with general raises granted to
the public sector at large. Considerably more discipline has been observed in the
privately run mills, where wages and salaries have been delinked from the increases
experienced by BJMC. This has been one of the sccesses under JSAC. Today,
remunerations in private mills are as much as some 40% below those paid by BJMC.
13. Training Program for Jute Workers and Managers. This component financed
under IDA's Sixth Technical Assistance Credit (TAVI) is progressing satisfactorily. The
original target was for the training of 8,000 workers and managers. The main results to
date are:
*  Most recent figures indicate that some 15,000 operatives, supervisors and mid-level
managers have been trained so far. The revised goal is to train a total of 16,800 mill
employees by the end of the program in November 1997. Roughly 90% of the trained
workers are from BJMC. The program has had much less attraction among private
mills associated with the BJMA.
*  The impact of the training program on productivity and cost efficiency at BJMC mills
has been positive, although the coverage of the training program is rather limited,
given the size of the labor force (permanent and temporary staff) engaged by the jute
mill industry. Information available on a sample basis confirms significant gains
obtained from the training of mill workers.
*  Although the cost of training mill workers is less than half that of retraining
retrenched workers, the cost is still quite high and this is affordable for the mills only
because is given to them for free --it is being financed by the GOB with IDA funds
from TA VI. Even under these conditions, it has been difficult for private mills to
release their workers for training. Their cost is the wages and salaries --about one
month's worth- they pay while their workers are on training.
14. Retraining Program for Affected Jute Workers As apart of the social safety net
included under JSAC a retraining program was financed under TAVI. The result of the
program to date are as follows:
* The total number of retrained workers has been slightly less than 6,000 so far, of
which only 3,615 have been workers actually retrenched. The rest have been workers
still employed in the mills. The retaining program is scheduled to finish this
December, so the final numbers will be higher.



- 34 -
e  The shortage of candidates for retraining has been due to a combination of factors,
including the lack of progress in the privatization effort and a concentration of the
retrenchment coming from voluntary retirements.
* The retraining program has not been cost effective and its impact as a provider of a
social-safety net for retrenched workers has been weak. Contrary to the initial
expectation, users have not been willing to contribute to partially cover the cost of the
retraining they are receiving. The retraining of each worker takes about 2 weeks, but
its cost amounts to some 8 months of an average paycheck for an active jute mill
worker.
III. Contents and Timetable for the ICR
15 .As agreed in the context of the Development Credit Agreement, IDA expects
to receive from the GOB its own assessment report of JSAC . As discussed with GOB
officials in the course of the ICR mission, the contribution of the GOB should be
forwarded to IDA with a summary. The summary, or the full text of this report if it is ten
pages or less, will be attached unedited to the ICR. The IDA staff expects to have a draft
of its own contribution to the ICR within the next two months. This will be sent to the
GOB for its views and comments. As required by IDA policy, the ICR has to be
submitted to the IDA Board within six months of the closing of JSAC, that is December
31, 1997 at the latest. The mission, however, expressed its preference for being able to
submit it well in advance of this deadline.



- 35 -
Annex I
JSAC Supervision and ICR Mission June/July 1997
List of officials met
Mr. Kazi Zafarullah, Chairman (State Minister), Privatization Board
Mr. Nasimuddin Ahmed, Ex-Finance Secretary
Dr. A.K.M. Masihur Rahman, Secretary, ERD, Ministry of Finance
Dr. Akbar Ali Khan, Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Akhtar Ali, Secretary, Ministry of Industries
Mr. Md Abdul Hannan, Secretary, Ministry of Jute
Mr. Syed Amirul Mulk, Secretary, Banking Divisim, Ministry of Finance
Mr. S.M. Zakaria, Member, Privatization Board
Mr. A.K.M. Rezaur Rahman, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Jute
Mr. Mosharraf Hossin, Managing Director, Agrani Bank
Mr. Md. Qamnrul Huda, Managing Director, Pubali Bank
Mr. M. Aminuzzaman, Managing Director, Uttara Bank
Mr. A.K.M. Nozmul Haque, Managing Director, Rupali Bank
Mr. Muniruddin Ahmed, Chairman, BJMC
Mr. Momenur Rahman, Managing Director, Contessa Consultants
Mr. Kh. Raisuddin Ahmed, Managing Director, Mashriqui Jute Mills Ltd.
Mr. Golam Mostafa, Managing Director, Janata Bank
Mr. Chacklader M. Alain, Managing Director, IPDC Ltd
Mr. Md. Shah Jahan, ERD, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Zahiruddin Khan, Chairman, BJMA
Mr. Faisal Siddiqui, Managing Director, Private mill
Mr. Ghazi Mahbubur Rahman, Project Director, JSAC/TA
Mr. Syed Nasiruddin Aluned, General Manager, Latif Bawany Jute Mills Ltd. (Unit of
BJMC)
Mr. Jan Bove, Resident Representative, IMF
Mr. James N. Curry, Jute Sector Training Program






-37-
Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2567-BD)
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
This Appendix presents an unedited copy of the Government's evaluation of the Jute
Sector Adjustment Credit Program. This evaluation has two components, one prepared by the
Ministry of Jute --the executing agency for JSAC-- and the other by the Ministry of Finance, which
provided the financing for the Program and implemented the debt-restructuring of the jute mills and
BJC.



I



Ministry orlJut
Evalustion Renort on the Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (JSAC)
tntroduction:
The Jute Sector Adjustnent Credit (ISAC) extended to GOB by IDA to support
its Juta Sector Roforrm Proguamnc(JSV). effecdve from Febrwy,1994 was closed on
30 June,1997 with a six months extension. Its prmary objective was the creaion of a
viable, privately owned jute industry operating on a commercial basis within a reformed
policy environment However. this objective was not achieved within the agreed time.
frame. A meeting was convened on 05 August 1997 under the chairmanship of Secresy.
Ministry of lute to discuss the implicadonS of the cloa03 of JSAC and the fate of the
JSRP. The ineeLng was attended by representatives of. the public and private sector lute
industries. The meeting discussed the existing poblems of the jute sector and opined tha
the JSAC under JSRP could r.ot bring about desired adjustzent in the sector on account
of failure of the privaczation component of the programc. The mceeing agreed  uta
JSR. should continue with its objective intact and that a revised progarnme should be
formulated as soon as pcssible and fresh donor support sought.
lute in the Banfladesh Economv
The importance of jut= in the Bangladesh economy cannot be overstated . It is. a
major cash c.cp for about 4.5 million producsrs of raw jute while a fourth of the
populatxon is directly or indire_:ly involved in ,ute production, transportaion. processing
and marketing. The jut: sector provides about 10 per cent of total employment in the
economy, contributes 4 per c:nt to GDP and II per cent to total export eamings. In eal
terms net export earnings from jut. is about 20% as is evident from  ecen studies of
TJNCTAD which have confirmed that one dollar of jute exports is equivalent to four
dollars eamed from export ot ready-made pments.' Although the relative share ofjute
in total exports has declined over the yea  it is currently  the third largt foreign
exchange eamner. The overall developmcnt of the economy and in fact the mainenance of
present living standards of the rural population is, therfo, still substaltally dependent
on the jute sector.
UNCTA5 'OnQt Inram  Count ProMrG for Simiijniag Supply Czpu iy ta LIpou or
Goads uai Savsvs: Sanaak 1997-2CO2, August I9?.



2
Problems Facing' the Jute Manufacturinn Industrv
The pcrforrnance of the manufacturing industy has not been com,nensurate with
the important role of jute in the national economy. On the contrary by the end of the
1980s it was facing a financial crisis of formidable proportions. The roots of this crisis
lay in the huge losses incurred by both the public and pnvate sector manufacturing
industry. In FY 91 thc combined losses of the jute sector totalled Tk. 7 billion or almost
one percent of GDP.
The poor financial perfor-.ance of thc jute sector is attinbuble to low and faling
world prices, unequal and tough competition with synthetics, inappropriate policy
environment and inefficient indusar. The combined effects of these factors has been fbr
costs of production of jute to exceed *nit export prices by over 40 percent in 1991. The
correction of this imbalance between costs and retums to maintain financial viability is
the major challenge confronting the jute sector.
Given its inability to be self-sustaining, the jute industTy had to depend on
artificial support measures and financial subsidies from Government and advances from
nationalized commercial banks ( NCCBs) to cover ils tosses . In 1990 one-third of the
losses were financed by export and intercst subsidies from the national budget,and the
rest by the NCBs. With projected losses and indebtedness expected to tripIc by 1998, the
jute sector was imposing a severe burden cn the financial sector threatening the viability
of both public financ:s and the banking system.
It was in this background of dire financial straits that in the carly 1990s GOB
sought the assis=ace of the Wortd 3ank to support the manufacturing industry in- a wide-
ranging jute sector reorbm programme (JSR?).
Jutc Scctor Adiustment Credit (JSAC)
under .ISRP: Review of Performance.
Obiecti-ves of JSRP
JSRP aimed at remedying the long-standing problems of the jute sector. It came
into force in December 1993 and wwas to bc implemented over a period of three ycars.
The main objective of the programme was the creation of a viabic, essentially privuely
owned jute industry, operating on a c nmmercial basis within a reformed policy



3
environment. With this end in view ISRP proposed a range of policy reforms that would
trnsform the jute sector from a loss-making enterprise to a profitble one.
In support of JSRP was also a credit i.e. JSAC of SOR 175 million from iDA
which came into force in February 1994 and was implemented retrospectively from July
1993 untitl its closure on 30 June, 1997. It was to be disbursed in four tranches but in
practice only the irst tranche of SDR 35rn was disbursed.
Stmte-ies and Performance of JSRP
The policy reforms of JSRP aimed at structural change of Lhe jute industry. An
underlying theme was that the performance of the jute mills under a regime of public
ownership and management had proved to be inflexible and inefficient in adjusting to a
rapidly changing market situanon . The result was that the mills carried excess capacity.
producing in volume at low prices and high cost leading eventually to massive financial
losses. To remedy this situation ISRP proposed the rapid dismantling of the public jut
manufaactunng sector and its replacement with private ownership and management In the
interim period both public and private mills were to be supported by a programme of
debt restructuring and financial relief while the manufactunrng industry at the same time
divest:d itself of low productivity eccess labour. Underpinning these reforms was also to
ae put in plac_ an appropriate macro-economic framework to support a competitive jute
economy. The actual perform.ancc of JSRP from 1993-96 in respect of each of the main
mform measures is summarized below-
Excess Capacitv
7he public sector plays a dcminant role in jute manufacturing, markecting and
trding. Jute mills operated under the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC),
ni.mbering about 30, accounted for 60 percent of total manufacturing capacity. In the
fa;: of declining world demand for jute goods JSRP a reduction in the installed capacity
o,' the public sector mills to not more than 4,000 looms by the end of the ,three yea
L-nplementation period. This was to be achieved by the closure of nine mills, downsizing
of two mills and privatization of eighteen mills.
In regard to the 30 public ;nills even before JSRP came into force four were
closed and one downsized for a total capacity reduction of 2,000 looms. Dring
implementation it was expected that the equipment of the four closed mills would be



4
disposed of, five additional mills closed and one other downsized and eightegn mills
privatized.
In pracice these targets were :ot aceved. By mid 1997 loom capacty of the
public sector had dec-mased by only 4.000 looms, from 16,000 to 12.000 becae five jute
mills were not closed and priviti=ion of 18 did not tike place. Thus a major objective
of tie ISRJ to reduce the loom capacity of the public sector drastically wa nct
P?vadzation
JS.P/ JSAC envisaged a significat twsfer of public sector mills, st leat 18 in
number, to prvate ownership. But in practice none of the mills were pnvizedi   te
closest to prnatization was-,he Haf.z Texcile Mill for which the tender award was made
but the acua transfer not effeted. By mid 1997 BJMC continued to operate 26 public
mills. Ser-al reasons have been advanced for the failure of the privaization progamme
Among these are h.e following:
1.    uncerminty in the minds of potential bidders caused by past experience;
2.    defcient tend:r procedures including valuation based on too rigid
countng principies;
3.    hizh raninimurr. pricz requiremctts;
4.    l.ck of acsive markcting for sale of the mills;
5.    lengnhy tender award p.ocedures;
6.    lack of physical aczcss to the mills by potential bidders;
7.    h.h wages in public mills and associatd labour problems;
S.    ladc of intcerst among of private mill owners to participate in tenders for.
public mills; and
9.   :high operaing losses of public miIIs.
The privaization of mills rmains the ental objective of JSRP. Determined
effort should be mzde in the next thre  years to tansfer to privae owneship of all the
juse mills ba .remin in public hands. As par of this continuing exercise, the procedures
and strategies thar were followed in the %=der process could bc modifed, refnd or
dropped altogether. Among these ar the following: 1



a)    revise of the methods of valuation of assets;
b)    allow sufflcit:t nime for potenrial buyers to familiarize themselves with the  e
auctionad properties;
c)    reminch all employe:s of m.ills put up for tnder so ha the new owner be free to ';
hire labour as rc-uired and would also pin more confidence;
d)    the pe-.anent employees and worke%s  who are retmnched should be  Lven =
opticn tu either receive a golden handshake and leavc immedisly or they cza be
nsfed to other BJIMC mills if any Vacancies eisr;
e)    no resent pricz should be sc: for piviation;
f)    if a rcserne price is maintained, as far ss possiblc the surpius land should be sold
off sepamely from the mi.lls as this will reduce the reseve price for the cms
while also encouraging a distnction between those intested in the land Md
those in tlt jute mills; -
_)    the requinment for minimum number of tenders should bc removed; and
Ii)    comm=i: to divest must be msde known by setting a deadline for insfer 6o.
the chosen bidder in the adverrisement itself.
The ibove r-Sinements relate to only a single stategy of privtzation i.e. the se
of all of the asts of the milUs through ope  tender. It has beea found not successful but
can be imeroved uzan on the lines suggested. Tere is also the implicit danger in tl2.
method tha the privatzcd mills may not rc=ain as jute mills which would be contazy to.
the objeceves o. JSKR.
Thee are also ultar:ativc thz-uiques of privatizacin that can be adopted. Onc
such alernatve would Le co dissolve the eodsting public ccrporaion, that is the BJNMC,
and canve-t thc public ,ills unde: exis-drg laws into public limitad companies,
resuc-ze them. giving sires to creditors as well as'to workers aainst their gratuiies or
pensions, a-d sell shares tc the public and private investors through the stockl market.
Still another technice wculd be zo conveTt the BSIMC into a holding company
and the retained mils (atu closing down some of the wos performing mills) ino
subsidiancs of the convertedBJMC. Here tc after remcruring, shares can be offered to
woricers and creditors aind o tte public and privs investors in the open market
...



6
The goal of pnvanization, which is to develop a more efBcient form of
management, can also be achieved without transfemng ownership of the mills. A variant
of this is the 'managemct conract under which the owncrship of the means of
producticn remaias in public hands while its management alone is leased out to the
private sector on along term basis on agreed terms and conditions. This form of liized
privanation could also be artenpted at Ieast in the case of a few mills where outight
ansfer of assets is difficult.
If the above methods do not suc--ed in achieving the goal of privatiizon ther
would be only one option le iLe. liquidation of all of the failed mills. This would be the
final step but would, in any event, follow with the financial banrptcy of the industy.
To avoid this eventuality and in the interest of jute growws it is essential that at least
some of Lhe options outlined above are made to success.
L-i order to implement the privniztion programme envisaged under a revised
proramm  suitble instimtional machinery needs to be strengthened. This can be done
by strngthemnig the existing lute and Textile unit of the Privatizaon Board. Or a
se-arate poject may be taken within the Mnistry of Jute to deal with privadzation of
Jute :mills exclusive!y. Whatever the structure, it will need to be serviced by requisite
profesional skils. To develop the c3pabiflty of the unit necessary technical
assistance may be sought from the World Bank or other donor agencies.
Excess rabour
The jtre mills wex- kcown to employ an excess of labour resulting in low
producvity. 7o meet an annual de=and of 500,000 tons of jut goods at the lcvel of
produ.-tvity actieved in [r.di would r-uir: rct::chmet of the labour force bv as much
as 45 percent.
Thc inititl target of labour reduction under ISR? was a cut of at least 20,000
wcrkers in the BIMC labour force. In fact total labcur :retrenchment by BJMC was in
excess of 23,00C. Hence this component of JSRP was more than achieved.
Indebtedness
The poor financial pcrforma=c;  of the jute sctor resulted in massive
indebtedness, repoted ar about TI& 40 billion in 1993 or about 20 per cent of the total



7
portolio of the banldng sector. BJMC is the largest debtor, followed by BJC; pri*e ;
mills; aders,  exporters and spiners. In additon, annual interest payment on debts
amounted to 10 percert of the revenue of mills which limited thcir capacity to am
profit.
JSR? included a prog=-nme of debt relief in order to help restore financial
viability to the jut: mills by aligmg its debt servicing to the capacity to pay. The
program had thre components Le. (1) debt rscheduing of two-thrds of past obli.iyow
for compasitc mills and write-off of the remainn one-third of debt: (2) in the interim
period grant or 'osi flnancing via public subsidies channeled through bans of losses 1
be incm7ed by prvate mills (18 months la=e increased to 24 months) and public nuMs
(3d months) from 01 July 1993 and (3) a:&e the interim period provision by bsan  of
working capital t private and public nulls against the security of the projected export
revenues of mills ad based on miiarket t
The programe of debt relef was implemented substantially. Debts wee
rescheduled with mills given IS years for repayment of these. sums including 3 years of
gace fcr rincipali rayments and low intexst rates. The amounts written off by banks
W=e compensated ty Gcvem-.nant with 25 year boads at an interest rate of S peC"-t per
year. Losses i:ncurmd by milis wer: also em=bursed on a grant basis but with the tems
and coadiions of inan^cin  weighted in avour of public mills. In regprd to working
capital 9ing as well public mills had =or: ready acceSS to banks.
Tr-:-nin&of0 Jute Wcrkars ar.d ljvaraser
An irnpormt s   'c=ve of JSR? was to incre-3c the produc:ivity of labour by
training and re:aining at various leveis. Although not covered by JSAC directly, DA
support was providad under the SLxth Technical Assistance Credit.
The originai targt was t0 train 16,QCO workers and managers. By mid 1997about
lS.OCO operauves, sucervisors and middle level managers, mostly from BJMC,- weo
tained. The wveage of the prop-am  is limited given the size of the labour force.
Nonetheless L.e impact of the maining on producivimy and efficiency at the BJMC mills
is reported to be posiive. But private mills have found it difficult to releae their workes
for the ;progr.m because of the cost of paying wag during training.



La order to provide a social safety net for rtrenched workers a technic#-
assistance retraining program was implerrtented By mid 1997 about 6,000 had b=e
retained but only half of them were actually retenched workers.
Maintgnance of an Ap;royriate Macro-Economic Fraework
ISRP considered the mainteriance of a suppormve macro-economic environment
important, especily in regad to wages and exchange rate, to promote compertivcness '
of the national economy. However, although it was considered necessary to hold nomiW.
wages at their current levels until such time as fnacial viability was restored to the
mills, BJMC wage increases followed those granted to the rest of the public seC=r.
Hence the gains in labour productivity that may have rsulted from the rduction in the
labour force were not tanslated into lower production costs. In the privae sector mare
disciplize was observed and wages Ln pnvate Mirls are some 40 percent lower than in.the
public mills.
In regard to the exchange rate the World Bank view was that an annual downward
adjus=ent may be necessary to achieve profit targets. However, decisions in this reprd ,
would have to tak into account macro-economic considerations and competitivencss of f;
exports n international markets.
The oerformance of IS?," was a mixed one. While there were positive-
ac!:icevens in regard to debt restucturing and labour resrenchment, in the two kIy
areas of che further c!osure of pubiic miUls and ransfer of these to the private sector,
there was little or no progress. Of the four public mills that were closed only one of these
were sold. Hence the sruc-.ual reform. ofa tnsforming public ownership of jute mills to
private ownership and management operating on a commercial basis was not achieved. It
was ihe view ofth;k World Bank hat, on the cor.axy, there was a rerogresion from this
objective as public se--or mills were mai:ased close to full capacity with rising jute
production while that of the private sector decreased. This was compounded by the fic
that the public sector had more favourable loss financing and quicker acc-ss to wcrking
capital from banks. The need for equitable trcaent of public and private mills thus
remained ar the closure of JSAC as was te issue of devising measures for effecrvely
transferring public mills to private ownership and management
A



MLinistry of Finance's Contribution:
Jute Sec:tor Adjusment Credit Evaluation Repo*'
Backgound
To refar. r;.e jute sector in Bangladesh, GOB accepted the Jute Sector
Adjusrmenr Credit U S.A.C) procr=mme with the World Bank, ass s  ce. ISAC
rme int= a;eriaon cr. IS: Jvuly 1993 for a pethod of 3(*ree) ySs The
broad objectives of JSAC were as foUows:
i) Downsitng the public sector Jure MLs
ii) Closre of Bangladesh Jute Corporaon (BJC).          ;
di) L-n:t ovirg pA=rcdu%riviy =d decreasing the cost of producfioz.
iv ?tv m.-.ron o pubiic sec:or Jute Mls.
v) Restructurzig the lure sector's previou Bank debts.
vi) Rationalization of exce-ssve manpower.
vii) Rere= inin: t;.e ;ffe:ed  trrenched workers in Jute Mills.
vti) E=r.amon c. t.he GOB interventicn in the Jute se-tor, etc.
Evalzation of TSAC
In the follcwing, an evaluatio  of JSAC is provided an the b.is of
following se: of objecrives (whiich were relevant to Fuarce Divisin .under
the MLinistry cf Fiar.eM.
= Lcan Resrructr4ng S : Jure Mills
z Loss Ref-a-n-c.& cf lute 'Mills
Racrzi ;-c or zan
* Ucwudaton rf Bangladesi jute Corporamion (BjC)
B B. d'en on r;ae overn.en.t exchequer.
Loaan Resxmtuzing of Jute Mlls
Under JSAC twc-dhirds ot all outsmnding loans of bodh pubiic and
private Jute nsills were resche&uled for repayment over a period of 15 years
with   mca oorfu cr 3 yeirs at a min=mal mte of interest of 396.
Rem;amini  oe.e-thid F 'loans were writuen-off by the p;iedar  bs.
Government com=ensated the private particpating banks for cher writrreL-
off loans throgh isuance of weasury bonds. The total size of rescheduled
and. wrtten-.off ;crt=c of Icaz for Nationalised Commercial Bas  (NCs
are 'r- 12.S4 bilI-or and TrL; 10.42 bilon respectively. Moreover priwae
Banks i3ke Pubali Bank Ltd and, Uttar Bank Ltd have been compe to
the tune of Tk.O.68 blon for writing-off their lute sector prevmous debts



The objectives of abuve restruacuring of loan were i) to reUevB      -
public and pnrvate lute mills of the continuing burden of L-are oveNi&'
loans with consequenr adverse impacts on financial profitbility; and ii) a
save NCBs and privare banks ftrm the curse of large non-peccming louns
'having severe consequences on the viability of the banking insrcuriotn.
However, L'if  .aarion a-w-alabIe indicare that neith.er the public nor
prvarte jute mitls have m=de payxments according to che restrctu;i  pla
aiter the end of rthe morartrtum. period as agreed withi banks. Thus neither
t.he prible- cf overdue lca=n  of Jute mills nor the prblei of non-
pei.-rtLL  toana cf banks .h'ave been resolved.
Loss Reftnancing Scheme
Under JSAC. owot.urd of th.e Icss of pr=vate jute milli irtriatly for a 18
mor.th perCod rang-o-orn Lsr July 1993 to December I994 and later
excended to 2 montrns upto june 1095 were refinanced by goven=ent.
Similarly losses of public sector Jute mills were refinanced for a period of
36 morzrhsL Under 'SAC the prtvate mill cwners were required to contribute
,heir one-third s-a towaz ;s djustmenc cf cheir overdue .sh aedi loans.
Govermenr hias made pay=ent to the tune of 71L 9.97 biulion to the
;a.ticipartig bnss or. accoi.nt of this scheme. The objective of this scheme
was rhet tha problem oF over=rwn cash credit limii wculd be resclved so
zhar bank and Jute m;ills 'uld have smooth bank-zlient relationships.
Yiowever it is known, zhar tlhe privare jure ma owners did no- ina1.or their
one- hird conrnb;uron rowards :he cash cnedit carn. As a resuLt, the private
ju.e :;I1s and W..Is h.z'.e Mot rsolved th.eL?warwng l} poblem:.
Latioalizarion of maniower
Under JSA, asovei-enr has provided Jure mills under SangLadesh jute
;Mills Cornoraoton0  (B3MC) Tk. 2.93 billir. for rerenrchment of excess
labour:. The ob ject-ivv oi the r.eten%chenr progra=me w-as to reduce high
overhead cost of mifis and raise productivity cmmernsurare with wages.
Y.cwever, Jute mils -undergjoS  retrenchment programme are 'aonwm to
have empleyed additioal work force under mrascer-roli negating any
favourmbLe influence or, cost of Droduction. Moreover with incrp2ses in
wages as per wage =crmascr. rec  iendnahan, productiviry of public jure
:mills work;ers tvae remained far below their wages.



Ilquidation of Bangladesh JuteCorporaion (BJC)          1
Under JSAC. Governmept Liquidated BJC and paid 7t% of debt
obligation of BJC to p=rtic!p=in& ban  thrugh issuance of trwury. bonds
amounting to Tk. 935 billions. The participating buiks also had writtn-off
remaLng 30% of their debr Moreover Development Financial Institute
(DI)Fi like Bangladesh kCrishi Bank has been compenated to the tune of
Tk.0.106 billion fcr writing-off their al previous debts with BJC An
winding-up call was e-ablished. The bbjective was that the assets of this
corporaon would be sold and receipts would be deposited to the
govermment.
Hiowever, there was lirrile progress towards Ie of assets and the
windqig-up cel is being comnnued to be financed with consequen  dri: of
govement res3ucw-
* Burden on the Governmnt Exchequer
Due to ISAC, direct and indirect burder falling the Government is ihown
belw:
(billiUc Tab)
i) Loss Refinancing:
* Bth4C                                    9.67
-Bic                                       0.93
ii) Re-sched7aling 'NCB s laaa                      -s
iii) Wrinxen-cff NCi.s luan                        10.42
iv) Mvanpower Ranonuzaiion Progrmme (IJIMC)         2.93
v) BJVCs Bank Debts                                 0.456
vQ) Closed B3jC's Jutre Mills liabilities           0.77
vii) Iareete aon Bonds                               4.00 (Appro-)
viii) Co,pensation to private Banks for writtg-off
Jute sectors Dreviojus d4bm                      CJ s
Total                                           SI .306-
kiowever, in return government has receie onlY USS 50 mIiorn eg.,
around T6. 2.10 billion, it may therefore be  mendoned that JSAS was
fnancdiay inequiTable to goverent.



I



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24206R
. X.
BANGLADESH
PAN CHAA<,
' Thokurgoon             \  '    -        f  ii__     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
J'THAKUSGNLP HAM
)THAKURGAON         0NilphrmR                                                                      DIVISION BOUNDARIES
Ni phoes     1moniRHa                                                --    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
' DINAJPUR
\                 O Rr ngpur <9 ~~~~Kutigt\-
b  i-ojp,r        RNPRC  %  Uii
\, isojp.s      BANGPUR        KURO                                 MILES  0            25          50           75
~~)          ; ~Gr ib- dh                                                                        i
KILOMETERS  0       25      so      75     100
f ,_  S GAIBANDH1
JOYPURHIAT
/  NAOGAON       OJoypu~,,thlRUB-gs 
NETROKONA           SNAGN
SUNAMGAONJ      t    } tQ &  <-:SYLHET
)                  NaogJon                                                    - OBogrr   [t  JAMAL  ONetrokonor    ,i  Sylhet       S
N.og.oor 0          0 Bogro         AMLU
"NIO BGANJ                           BOGRA                            OMy--esisgh
hNowob N                                                               MYMENSINGH- 
RA.;HAH!i                    Seroigon  iOKishorgoni                                     NAEIGANJ     0 Moulv RBzor
RAJSHAHI    NATORE                                                                            MOULVI BAZAR
ONotore      SERAIGANJ                                   KISHORGANJ H
PASNA~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I'N
INDIA                                                                          RS P  0G.,  IRAHMAM
K-hi .            DHAK                       0                   ~~~~~~INDIA
Meherp,r                             MANl 'NJ           D    A  I
(    OChuadongo  2s ~RAISARI   9         G        N                                                     ,
CHUADANGA, Jhenoidah ,t $  
N...,   JIIHENAIDAHI                              MUNSM    J F     CO. illj
ZoZr       FARIDEU          mOOShigat             o,I
,SS   MAGURA  t     ,  \   ,ANDP UR                                          /               \
NABAI ~~~~~SR                      Chndp.r
'   l~'~J JESSORE  Nor A    I X MAOARIPUR  S.n                                        KHAGRACHHARI
g  lesore    Nooil 2GOPALGANJ oopr          m       ,                $\           \ 
; X Gopolgonj.tH, -    ,         LumprFn                        J|
S                                   BA  AL  IJ~~ LUXMIPLJR
0S( khiro      0                                 AL           NOAKHALI  PENI           Khogrochhok
) Sotkhiro          Bogerho aEROJPUR
?SATKHiRA   KHULNA(g o Bn        ri                             N   o                              N ogomoli
The. onais    oos 
d enominationsz andc anwy                     >9; \!kUN                                                                           a Bosdo.bnJ
other  -. inorato  show        n1GONG 
imply. on  the  Pa"  of
TZ WO<  |........                                                           .                                                                     ... ,Ic B k  y
-Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~
stat-Potan  terrto-h
boracceptnone of such <  gj0J00' t0000   lj0j;$SS    Szil iS3eji ig  $  0jjt  
BANDARCAN
INDIA                                                                                                                  7
MARCH 1995



