Report No. PIC519
Project Name         Bangladesh-Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (JSAC)
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Agricultural Credit
Project ID                BDPA9553
Borrower                  People's Republic of Bangladesh
Financing Plan            IDA SDR175 million
Date Prepared             December 1993
Appraisal Date            February 1993
Projected Board Date      February 1994
Background
1.   The livelihood of about   million people in Bangladesh (aost one-
quarter of the total population) is affected by jute-related
activities in agriculture, marketing, manufacturing, and trade.
Bangladesh is the largest supplier of jute in the world: it accounts
for about three-quarters of total exports of raw jute and one-half of
jute products. The public sector plays a dominant role in jute
manufacturing, marketing, and trading. The Government owns about 78%
of the equity in all jute mills, including full ownership of 29 mills
and a minority share of all private mills. Aost all the mills have
incurred large losses since FY83. In recent years, these losses have
been a heavy drain on the Government budget and posed a serious threat
to the stability of the financial sector.
Objectives
2.   The proposed Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (JSAC) would support a
restructuring program for the jute manufacturing industry. The
program includes (a) elimination of excess capacity in the jute
industry by closing nine of the 29 public mills and downsizing two
large public mills; (b) retrenchment of about 20,000 employees in the
public sector; (c) restructuring of the jute sector debt of about Tk
35 billion ($900 million); (d) privatization of at least 18 of the
remaining 20 public mills; and (e) technical assistance to upgrade the
skills of both workers and managers. Successful implementation of the
reform program would require continued good performance within the
macroeconomic framework to be agreed with IDA in connection with
preparation of annual Country Economic Memoranda and in regular
consultations with the IMF.
Description
3.   JSAC would provide SDR175 million, or the equivalent of 1.5% of
Bangladesh's gross import requirements for the three-year period
covered by the program (FY94-96). The credit would be disbursed in
four tranches in conformance with the usual procurement procedures for
such operations.



Environmental and Social Aspects
4.   Environmental assessment Category C.   The focus of the program
would be on policy reforms, including reduction in mill capacity and
labor retrenchment, rather than on physical investments. In the
absence of JSAC, continued operation and subsidization of the
inefficient jute mills in the public and private sectors would drain
resources from the Government budget and the banking system.
Restructuring of the industry would free these resources for
investment to promote employment generating economic growth, relieve
poverty, and protect the environment. To minimize the short-term
adverse social impact, provision would be made for compensation and
voluntary retraining of about 8,000 retrenched workers.
Institutional Capacity
5.   The reform program would be coordinated by an inter-ministerial
committee comprised of representatives of the Ministries of Finance
and Jute, the Central Bank, and the Privatization Board.     The
capacity of the latter institution to privatize the 18 mills would be
reinforced by internationally recruited consultants.
Benefits and Risks
6.   The main direct benefit would be the transformation of
Bangladesh's largest industry from one which has lost some US$750
million over the last ten years into a profitable source of urban and
rural employment, export earnings, and tax revenues. The elimination
of the budget subsidy would free government resources for much needed
investments in physical and social infrastructure. Relief of pressure
on the banks to lend to loss making mills would improve the quality of
resource allocation.
7.   The principal risk would be one of labor and political opposition
to the reforms. In preparing the program, the Government has made a
concerted effort to minimize this risk by consulting with organized
labor and providing a generous safety net for retrenched labor. The
risk that the Government would not privatize and close mills is
minimized by sequencing the tranche releases to require strong
measures in the early stages, many before Board presentation. There
is, however, a risk that privatizing mills may be difficult
in a climate where the future of the jute industry in the world market
is uncertain, and where the commercial viability of the individual
enterprises in Bangladesh depends on the success of the broader sector
reform program.
Contact Point :      Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.:   (202)522-1500
- 2-



Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
- 3 -



