                                                                                6 August 1996

Chairperson
Office of The Inspection Panel
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.20433
U.S.A.
Dear Chairperson:

            Re: Request for Inspection - Bangladesh: Jute Sector Adjustment Credit

We have followed the guidelines of the Model Form to develop this Request, and provide within
this format all of the data and information specified in The Inspection Panel Brochure.

This Request documents the following

(1) We as parties to this Request have been directly, adversely and materially affected by the
Bank-financed Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (JSAC) project in Bangladesh.

(2) These direct, adverse and material impacts on us have been directly due to the Bank itself
failing to comply with its own operational policies and procedures in general and specifically
those of the JS AC project and to the Bank failing to require the Government to comply with the
contractual conditionalities of the JSAC agreement.

(3) We support the concepts and implementation of the JSAC project and are requesting that the
Bank act in accordance with its own policies and procedures on Bank-financed projects in
general and specifically as stipulated in its JSAC agreement with the Government.


Affected Parties

We are shareholder / CEOs of private sector jute mills in Bangladesh. Annex 1 provides our
names, contact addresses, and telephone numbers. Annex 2 is a map that indicates the location of
our headquarter offices and mills within Bangladesh.

Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (JSAC)Project.

The Bank is financing the implementation of the JSAC project. We are thoroughly
knowledgeable on the purpose, objectives and key components of this project. ' We are among
the intended beneficiaries of the JSAC. We have participated in, or been informed about, studies,
conferences and meetings related to the design and implementation of JSAC. In this capacity, we
have made our concerns known to Bank staff regarding their failure to design and implement this
project in accordance with their stated objectives and the adverse, material efforts their acts and

omissions have had on us directly as individuals, as private sector enterprises, and as an
industry..

The following description of JSAC is from IDA documents.

Purpose:. The JSAC was intended to support the implementation of a program of reforms
(commonly referred to as the Jute Sector Restructuring/Reform Program (JSRP)) designed to
restructure the jute manufacturing sector in Bangladesh.

Objectives:         JSAC was intended to (a) help turn the loss making jute manufacturing sector
into a smaller but viable industry ; (b) eliminate the burden of jute sector subsidies on the
national budget; (c) establish a market-based credit system and financial discipline in the jute
manufacturing sector; and (d) initiate a strong privatisation program that would demonstrate
Bangladesh's commitment to a vigorous private sector development program.

Key:       Components : JSAC was intended to include (a) elimination of excess capacity in the
jute industry by closing 9 of the 29 public sector mills and downsizing 2 large public mills; (b)
retrenchment of about 20,000 employees in the public sector; (c) restructuring of the jute sector
debt of about Tk 35 billion ($900 million); (d) privatisation of at least 18 of the remaining 20
public mills; (e) separation benefits and retraining for retrenched workers under a Social Safety
Net Program; and (f) attainment of competitive, viable machine efficiency and labour
productivity levels through a Technical Assistance and Training Program for managers and
workers in retained mills.

According to IDA reports, each component of JSAC would have to be effectively implemented
in order to meet JSAC's purposes and objectives. If one or more of its components was not
implemented effectively, IDA has stated that the project would fail to meet its intended
objectives.

Understanding of Bank Policies and Procedures

We understand that the Bank has the following general policies and procedures.

(1) Promotion of the private sector, reduction of Government involvement/ownership in the
production of goods and services, removal of Government induced market distortions, and
generation of productive employment for poverty alleviation.

(2) Involvement of the major affected parties during the design and implementation of any
Bank-financed project.

We understand that the Bank's general policies and procedures would provide the framework or
guiding principles in the design and attainment of the above stated JSAC purposes and
objectives.

Conversely, we understand that a violation of Bank policies /procedures would occur in JSAC if:
    (a)      either of the two broad guiding principles were not adhered to during the design of
             the JSAC conditionalities, and/or
    (b)      once enumerated, omitting one or more of its stated JSAC objectives, and/or
    (c)      acting in such a way as to cause one or more of these objectives not to
             be realised on the project, and/or
    (d)      failing to enforce JSAC agreement conditionalities which, would adversely affect
             implementation of JSAC's key components and attainment of its objectives, and/or
    (e)      designing and/or implementing one or more of its key components in such a way as to
             ensure their ineffectiveness in meeting stated purposes and objectives.


Rights/Interests of Affected Parties:

    Our rights/interests are:

(1) We are private entrepreneurs whose families had set up jute goods manufacturing units prior
to the Bangladesh Liberation War (1971). In 1972 our jute mills were nationalised. In 1982, a
third of the industry was re-privatised by the Government and we reacquired majority ownership
of our mills. However, the Government retained minority ownership in many of our mills and
directly and indirectly interfered in the operations, labour-management relations, wage policies
and other decisions within our mills. During nationalisation, the jute mills suffered greatly
through bad management practices and public sector culture. Re-privatisation of some of these
mills did not result in their revitalisation because of continued Government interference and debt,
equipment condition, manning, wage, and processing problems inherited from the nationalisation
period. Financial losses and debt had grown to intolerable levels during this period.

(2) Since the Government needed the jute sector to meet its political employment, and
export-earning objectives, it continued after 1982 to subsidise losses through directed loans from
national banks Consequently, it continued to influence industrial and financial policies in private
sector mills within the jute industry. We as private mill owners were required to keep our mills
open and could realise a livelihood as long as the Government continued financing our losses
through directed bank loans. Obviously, this uncontrolled growth in recurring losses and
increased debt burden could not continue forever.

(3) We had pinned our hopes on a World Bank led reform and financing program (JSRP/JSAC)
formulated in 1992 to (a) phase out both direct and indirect Government involvement, (b)
restructure. the debt which lie was to a great extent the result of nationalisation or continued
Government interference, and (c) correct bad mill management and processing practices that had
resulted in uncompetitively low machine efficiency and labour productivity, and large financial
losses.

(4) Without Government subsidisation of losses and with our inherited and unmanageable debt
levels and high wage costs, we are dependent for survival on the effective implementation of the
JSAC project. If JSAC is not implemented effectively, we will have to close our mills, lose our
livelihood from these enterprises, and face uncertain economic and personal fates given our debt
liabilities and Government reinforced worker expectations regarding their continued employment
in mills and their likely volatile reaction to mill closings.

Ban, Violations of Its Own Policies and Procedures:

The Bank has violated its own policies/procedures in the following ways.

(1) As regards general bank policies and procedures, while the bank has stated formally that it
supports privatisation, private sector development, the operation of market forces within national
economics, and involvement of affected parties in project design, we feel that based on our
experiences to date with JSAC that bank staff actions and omissions demonstrate:

(a) their lack of support for the private sector in the jute industry, and .
(b) their unwillingness to involve, or to take seriously the concerns of, the private sector as an
affected party in the design and implementation of Bank-financed projects.

(2) As regards the conditionalities of the JSAC project specifically.

(a) the Bank's design of JSAC has been from the beginning detrimental to the recovery and
growth of private sector mills by being discriminatory and flawed, providing public sector mills
with much more favourable capitalisation and debt restructuring vehicles than those provided
private sector mills;

(b) the Bank's implementation/support of JSAC's key components has demonstrated its inability
or unwillingness to enforce conditionalities of the JSAC agreement and its apparent willingness
to reconsider and modify significantly to the detriment of JSAC the content, scope and timing of
the implementation plans for:
           public-sector mill closures;
           downsizing of two large public sector mills;
           privatisation of remaining public sector mills;
           working capital availability for private sector mills,
           wage policy reform and wage-level containment in the sector; and
           technical assistance and training to attain viable machine efficiency and labour
            productivity levels in the sector; and
(c) private sector jute mills as affected parties, were not adequately consulted, particularly in the
formal decision making meetings. Annexures 3 and 3A provide matrices showing:

        (1) intended actions and time schedules for implementation of JSAC's key components
            according to the JSAC agreements;
        (2) the Bank's actions and omissions that violated provisions of the project; and
        (3) what has actually happened as a result of the Bank's actions and omissions.

The end result of such actions and ineffective and on timely implementation of JSAC key
components and the Bank's consequent violations of its own JSAC provisions is that the
purposes and objectives of JSAC are not being met. Specifically,

(1)         the sector continues to realise significant losses, with public sector mills having larger
losses per ton than private mills (See Annex 4);
(2)         public sector operating loom capacity remain relatively, unchanged and their relative
share of total operating loom capacity has grown (see Annex 5);
(3)         private sector operating loom capacity has continually and significantly decreased
while higher cost public mills have remained in operation (see Annex 6); and

(4)        no mills have actually been privatised during the four years since the signing of the
           JSAC agreement and instead the share of total jute goods production that is in public
           sector mills has grown while the share in private sector mills has decreased. Also in
           contravention to the JSAC agreements, these non-privatised mills continue to get their
           loss finances from the Government.

We understand now that the Government has requested formally that the Bank agree to eliminate
or postpone the privatisation and public mill closing provisions from the JSAC agreement. This
is allegedly because public sector mills are needed to meet world demand for jute goods, since
private sector mills are the ones closing and the ones decreasing their operating loomage and not
the public sector mills. We also understand that Bank staff are currently considering this
Government request.

The reason for this loss of operating capacity in the private sector' mills is obvious. We in the
private sector have been denied working capital and have had to decrease our operating loomage.
Public sector mills have been provided with all their working capital requirements and thus can
operate at full capacity, regardless of their losses. The actions and omissions of the Bank in the
design and implementation of JSAC provisions have resulted in the exact opposite of the
intended JSAC objectives. (Sources of verification on this provided upon request).

Adverse. Material Effects Directly Caused by Bank's Violations.

We believe our rights/interests have been. adversely and materially affected 'as a direct result of
the Bank's violations.
        (1) Nowhere near the 90% of forecast exports proceeds suggested by the
        JSAC agreement were given as working capital to the private mills.
        (2) Delays in authorising/providing private sector mills working capital (while public
        sector mills received uninterrupted and unconditional working capital) and the terms and
        conditions of such loans (relative to those of public sector mills) which were allowed to
        happen by Bank staff have resulted in:
           multiple, temporary closures of our mills (with workers receiving uninterrupted
        compensation during these closures),
          reduced operating loomage,
          lost business/customers,
          reduced revenue,
          significant financial losses due to operating costs exceeding realised revenues, and
           difficulties in us eventually acquiring working capital and capital improvement loans
        and in negotiating viable terms and conditions (due to above operating problems and
        uncertainties/risks associated with local commercial bank's perceived lack of
        commitment to support private sector mills and the Government's indifference if not
        hostility to private sector mills).

(3) Private mills have experienced the following as a direct result of bank violations of its own JSAC
    policies and procedures.
              temporary closures of 11 private mills during the post-JSAC period compared to 5
               temporary closures for a comparable pre-JSAC time period.
              Operating loomage in the private sector has decreased from 5955 looms in FY
               1992-93 (7236 looms in FY 1991-92) to 4199 looms in December 1995;
              Private sector sales volume has decreased from 159116 tons (including yarn and
               twine) in FY 1992-93 to 150933 tons (including yarn and twine) in FY 1994-95; and
              Pivate sector production has decreased from 162865 (including yarn and twine) in FY
               1992-93 to 149656 tons (including yarn and twine) in FY 1994-95.

(4) The failure of the bank to realise any privatisation of public sector mills during the four years
    since JSAC's initiation verifies the direct, adverse and material effects of bank violations on the
    demand for jute mills and thus their market values.

(5) We had hoped that the effective design and implementation of the JSAC component involving a
    Technical Assistance and Training (TAT) Program for Manager and Workers in Retrained Mills
    would:
              increase machine efficiencies; .
              increase labour productivity;
              reduce operating costs to world competitive levels;
              improve the competitive position of the Bangladesh jute sector relative to man-made
               fibre substitute/alternative goods in world trade;
              stabilise world demand for jute goods and increase demand for Bangladesh jute goods
               in world trade; and
              thus result in profitable and valuable jute goods manufacturing enterprises.

    While the public sector BJMC was formally on the Evaluation Committee, BJMA was not
    invited and therefore unrepresented.        Despite this, we participated personally, or were
    represented by our private sector mill organisation (BJMA), in bank sponsored conferences and
    in meetings with bank staff to present our views and preferences on the content and nature of this
    TAT program. In addition, BJMA, monitored the design and implementation phases of this
    program and provided written recommendations and concerns to bank staff regarding what was
    happening to this program. Our recommendations and concerns have been systematically and
    totally disregarded by bank staff. Even more disconcerting is the fact that bank staff have
    actively supported a TAT program design and delivery system that was opposite to what the
    private sector was requesting. While it serves the income and survival interests of public sector
    mill officials, managers and workers and the business interests of involved consultants, the TAT
    program is explicitly designed and staffed D-W to meet its stated objectives and not to support
    JSAC's formal purposes and objectives.

    We therefore foresee no improvement in the technical viability of our mills. Without significant
    machine efficiency and labour productivity improvements we know that there is no hope for
    improving the financial viability of our mills. Without financial viability, we will have to close
    our mills. This will be a direct result of bank staff not understanding the implications of their
    actions and omissions on the TAT program and not taking seriously our design and
    implementation recommendations on this critically important component of JSAC.

(6) The failure of the bank to realise (a) JSAC's privatisation goals and (b) the reduction of
excess capacity within public sector mills has resulted in these public sector mills continuing to
dominate markets. They sell at below-market prices and buy raw jute and services of labour at
much higher prices, even when market prices are below their manufacturing costs, because their
financial losses from such transactions continue to be subsidised by the Government. As private
sector concerns,we can not do this and thus can not continue to compete with these subsidised
public sector jute mills. The actions and omissions of Bank staff relative to JSAC, support the
above public sector mill dominance of the market, continued losses by public sector mills, and
the demise of our private sector jute mills..

(7) We expect that the net result of the above will cause us to suffer.

        (a) Closure of our manufacturing businesses, resulting in serious dislocation of our
        careers and livelihoods, threats to our personal security and those of our family members,
        and loss of income;
        (b) Loss of thousands of jobs of our employees; and
        (c) Loss to our nation's economy and social welfare.

As IDA reports repeatedly state, the jute sector is critically important to the internal and external
economy of Bangladesh. As stated in these reports:

    (a) the livelihood of about 25 million people (nearly 25% of our population) is affected by
        jute-related activities;
    (b) jute is our main cash crop, our largest industry, and our second largest export commodity;
    (c) our sector provides about 10% of total employment, 12% of GDP, and 25% of export
    earnings (or 40% of net export earnings).

Given the economic importance of the jute sector and our country's history, the closure of our
private sector jute mills may even result in the Government re-nationalising and re-opening these
closed jute mills. The net result of Bank violations of its own JSAC policies and procedures will
therefore likely be .test the privatisation of our sector but its total nationalisation. This is an
outcome that is totally opposite to the stated purposes and objectives of JSAC and that will cause
us and our fellow jute mill owners irreparable harm.

Steps Taken with Bank Staff to Resolve Violations
We have complained to bank staff about the above bank violations of JSAC policies and
procedures and their likely adverse impacts on (a) meeting JSAC's purpose and objectives and
(b) private sector jute mills. We personally, or as represented by BJMA, have made continuous
representations to the World Bank Resident Mission, Bangladesh, and to relevant World Bank
Head Office staff in Washington, D.C., through Bank sponsored conferences, meetings, and
formal letters. Annexure 7 contains copies of letters, formal presentations given at conferences or
meetings and notes from such conferences/meetings.

Nature of Bank Staff Responses to Concerns Raised

There has been no formal, written response from Bank staff to letters from the Chairman of
BJMA (our private sector jute mill association) except on one occasion. We received some
verbal responses to our

concerns from Bank staff during conferences, meetings, and personal discussions, but we found
these to be unsatisfactory. Bank staff responses were inadequate and often did not address or
rectify the problems raised, and instead tended to be based on suspicious and bureaucratic
attitude towards the private sector.

Furthermore, more often than not our representations were ignored as bank staff did not feel
themselves accountable to anybody but the Government. Generally, we have found that bank
staff, perhaps because of their career backgrounds in Government, are lip service private sector
advocates who are more comfortable dealing with Government officials than private sector
representatives and appear to be unsympathetic to private sector concerns, uninformed about
what it takes to run successfully a business in the private sector, and suspicious of private sector
intentions.

Additional Steps Taken to Resolve Problem

We have approached our own Government in Bangladesh, but due to their anti-private sector
sentiment and dependence on the Bank for decisions, nothing got done.

Conclusion

We therefore believe that the above actions/omissions which are contrary to the above policies or
procedures have materially and adversely affected our rights/interests and request the Panel to
recommend to the Bank's Executive Directors that an investigation of these matters be carried
out in order to resolve the problem.

We further authorise you to make this request public.

While we believe we have fulfilled the information requirements for this request, if the panel
requires any additional information, please contact us and we will try to be responsive to your.
needs. We will make ourselves available to the panel for interviews or discussions related to this
request. We view this matter of extreme importance to our sector, our economy and our people
and are eager to get your response to this request.

Sincerely,


Names of applicants on Annexure 1.

Annexure 1 (confidential)

