                                        BANGLADESH
                  JUTE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CR. 2567-BD)

                                 MANAGEMENT RESPONSE
                                               TO
                                     INSPECTION PANEL

I. Introduction

A. The Request

1.      On November 25, 1996, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection (the
Request) submitted by a group of shareholders/CEOs of private sector jute mills in Bangladesh
(the Requesters). The Requesters assert that they have been adversely affected in a direct and
material way by IDA's failure to follow its policies and procedures with respect to the Jute Sector
Adjustment Credit (JSAC) in Bangladesh.

2.      The complaints of the Requesters may be grouped in three main categories: (a) IDA's
alleged flawed design of the JSAC; (b) IDA's alleged failure to implement the JSAC effectively
through its inability or unwillingness to enforce conditionalities; and (c) IDA's alleged failure to
involve the private sector in design and implementation of the JSAC. While the Requesters
indicate that they support the concepts of JSAC and desire its effective implementation, they
assert that IDA has failed to comply with its operational policies and procedures in designing and
implementing the JSAC.

3.      The Requesters claim that as a consequence of IDA failure to implement the JSAC
effectively and on time, the purposes of and objectives of the JSAC are not being met.
Specifically, the Requesters claim that as a result of IDA acts and omissions: (a) the jute sector
continues to make significant losses, with public mill losses higher than those of private mills;
(b) public sector operating loom capacity remains relatively unchanged and its relative share of
total operating loom capacity has grown; (c) private sector operating loom capacity has
significantly decreased, while higher cost public mills remain in operation; and (d) no mills have
been privatized during the four years of the JSAC program, and, in contravention to JSAC
agreements, these non-privatized mills continue to receive loss financing (that is, subsidies to
cover the mills' operational losses) from the Government of Bangladesh. The Requesters
conclude that the acts and omissions of IDA in the design and implementation of the JSAC have
resulted in outcomes which are opposite to the intended JSAC objectives.

B. The Response

4.      IDA Management rejects the Requesters' contention that the design and implementation
of the JSAC has violated IDA policies and procedures. The JSAC has been designed, appraised
and implemented in full accordance with IDA policies and procedures. The delays in program
implementation of which the Requesters complain are the result of Government of Bangladesh
inaction and failure to carry out its JSAC Reform Program as set out in its Letter of December
23, 1993 (the Reform Program Letter, Attachment 1). As such, the complaints in respect of

delays in implementation are outside the jurisdiction of the Inspection Panel, which is not
authorized to deal with complaints with respect to actions which are the responsibility of other
parties, and not of IDA.1

5.       Management also rejects the Requesters' claims that IDA has been unable or unwilling to
enforce credit conditionalities. We wish to state clearly that, unlike investment operations,
adjustment operations do not have specific covenants regarding the Government's program for
the Association to enforce. The legal structure of an adjustment operation is: (i) the Government
submits to the Association a policy letter setting out its reform program; (ii) the Association
determines whether it can support the Government's reform program; (iii) the Association's
support is given through the release of funds when various targets of the Government's reform
program have been met. If benchmarks are not met, funds are not released, but no covenants
have been violated. Management and staff have repeatedly discussed with the Government of
Bangladesh the deficiencies in the Government's implementation of its JSAC Reform Program as
set out in its Reform Program Letter, and have continually pressed for Government to carry out
its program. As a result of the Government's failure in this respect, IDA has (a) refused to release
the second, third and floating tranches under the credit; (b) canceled the second supplementary
credit originally proposed for JSAC; and (c) listed the JSAC as a "problem credit" subject to
intensive supervision, including constant oversight from the Resident Mission in Bangladesh.

6.       Although, as stated in paragraph 4 above, the complaints in respect of delays in
implementation of JSAC are outside the jurisdiction of the Inspection Panel, nevertheless we
wish to address all of the issues raised by the Requesters more fully.

II. Objective, Description and Implementation Status

A. Objective

7.       The objective of the JSAC is to support the Government of Bangladesh in carrying out its
program of reforms in the jute sector, the ultimate goal of which reform program is to create a
viable, privately-owned jute industry operating on a normal commercial basis in a reformed
policy environment (see Reform Program Letter, Attachment 1). At the completion of the JSAC
the majority of the sector is expected to be in private hands, with the ultimate size of the industry
being determined by market forces.

B. Description

8.       The credit supports the implementation of the Government's program of reforms designed
to restructure the jute manufacturing industry in Bangladesh2. The reforms to be supported under
the JSAC may be grouped in eight categories (see para. 4 of the Reform Program Letter,
Attachment 1):


1Paragraph 14 of the Resolution establishing the Inspection Panel (Resolution No. 93-10 and Resolution No. IDA
93-6 of September 22, 1993) provides that "...the following requests shall not be heard by the Panel: (a) Complaints
with respect to actions which are the responsibility of other parties, such as a borrower, or potential borrower, and
which do not involve any action or omission on the part of the Bank." The Operating Procedures of the Panel
provide in paragraph 2 of Part I that "The Panel is not authorized to deal with the following: (a) complaints with
respect to actions which are the responsibility of other parties, such as the borrower, or potential borrower, and
which do not involve any action or omission on the part of the Bank ...."

        (a)       downsizing the industry by closing nine public mills and downsizing two;
        (b)       rationalizing employment by retrenching 20,000 workers in public jute mills;
        (c)       providing a social safety net for retrenched workers by paying separation benefits
                  from Government funds and implementing a retraining program;
        (d)       restructuring the debt of public and private mills and providing interim financing
                  support for losses incurred;
        (e)       privatizing 19 public sector jute mills;
        (f)       reducing the share of wages in total mill revenues by retrenching excess
                  employees, increasing productivity and restraining wage increases;
        (g)       contributing to increasing productivity in mills through a training program for
                  mill workers and managers; and
        (h)       eliminating Government interventions in the jute sector.

9.      The credit was available in four tranches of SDR 35 million, 50 million, 50 million and
40 million (floating tranche), respectively, with release of each tranche conditioned on the
completion by the Government of Bangladesh of various actions in support of its Reform
Program outlined above. Schedules 3, 4 and 5 to the Development Credit Agreement for the
JSAC (the DCA, Attachment 3) specify the actions to be taken for the release of the second, third
and "floating" tranches. Conditions to release of the first tranche were met by the Government of
2Bangladesh prior to presentation of the JSAC to IDA's Board of Directors. In summary, the
actions required for the release of each tranche are as follows:

(a)     Conditions to Release of First Tranche: closure of four mills and downsizing of one mill;
retrenchment of 12,000 workers in public sector mills; and implementation of a debt write-off
and refinancing program with banks for these closed mills and for the public sector jute trading
company Bangladesh Jute Corporation;

(b)     Conditions to Release of Second Tranche: closure of five mills and downsizing of one
mill; privatization of nine mills; disposal of assets and equipment of Bangladesh Jute
Corporation and mills closed under the first tranche; retrenchment of 8,000 workers in public
jute mills; introduction of mandatory retirement age for public sector workers; and
implementation of a debt write-off, refinancing program and time-bound interim financing
program with banks for private and public mills;

(c)     Conditions to Release of Third Tranche: privatization of nine mills and disposal of assets
and equipment of mills closed under the second tranche; and

(d)     Conditions to Release of Floating Tranche: the preparation and offering for sale to the
private sector of one public-sector jute mill.

The "floating" tranche is available for release at any time before the Closing Date of the credit,
once the conditions precedent for its release have been met. In addition to the specific actions
outlined above and required for the release of each tranche, no tranche will be released unless the
Government of Bangladesh's macroeconomic framework is satisfactory to the Association and
the progress achieved by the borrower in the carrying out of the Reform Program is satisfactory
to the Association.


2For details of the Jute Sector in Bangladesh see Part II, Memorandum of the President (MOP) (Attachment 2).

C.       Implementation Status

10. The JSAC was approved by IDA's Board of Directors on January 13, 1994, following
completion by the Government of Bangladesh of all actions required to be taken for release of
the first tranche. Accordingly, the first tranche of SDR 35 million was released immediately
following effectiveness of the credit on April 5, 1994.3

11.      No further disbursements from the credit have been made since first tranche release,
because the required actions to be taken by the Government of Bangladesh for floating and
second tranche release (originally expected to be completed by March 1995) have not been
completed to date. The following actions required for second and floating tranche release have
not yet been taken by the Government of Bangladesh:

(a)      closure of five mills and downsizing of one;
(b)      sale of the equipment of four mills closed under the first tranche;
(c)      liquidation of Bangladesh Jute Corporation's assets; and
(d)      privatization or closure of an additional ten mills (one under the floating tranche).

Actions required for third tranche release (the privatization or closure of nine mills, originally
expected by September 1996) have also not been carried out. Because of the failure of the
Government of Bangladesh to implement the actions set out in the DCA, the credit has since
March 1995 been listed by IDA as a problem credit.4

12.       The DCA for the JSAC has been amended twice (amendments dated June 6, 1994 and
September 12, 1995, respectively; see Attachment 4) to permit supplementary financing under
the Fifth Dimension program (see footnote 3). Due to the Government's failure to accomplish the
actions necessary for second tranche release, however, the second such supplementary credit was
canceled by IDA effective on September 11, 1996.

13.      The Closing Date for the credit is December 31, 1996. The current Government, which
assumed office on June 12, 1996, has requested an extension of the Closing Date to December
31, 1998 (Attachment 5). In view of the critical importance of the reform program, its objectives
and the need to restore its effective implementation, Management is considering approving the
requested extension for one year to eighteen months only, if the borrower carries out certain
upfront actions to bring its reform program back on track within the shortest possible time (see

3A total amount of SDR 37.41 million was disbursed under the first tranche. The additional SDR 2.41 million was
provided under the "Fifth Dimension Program", a facility which, with Board approval, allocates on an annual basis
to existing IDA-supported adjustment programs in eligible countries additional resources from borrower repayments
to IDA, as supplementary adjustment credits. Usually this supplementary financing is attached to the tranche
currently being disbursed, or expected to be disbursed. Disbursement of the supplemental credit must be completed
within twelve months of the signing of the relevant supplemental credit agreement, or the supplemental credit will
be canceled.

4Operations rated as unsatisfactory on development objectives or implementation progress during supervision are
classified as problems. When an operation is so identified, an action plan is discussed with the borrower to deal with
the issues raised by IDA supervision. In the case of JSAC, discussion of this action plan was initiated at the time
JSAC was classified as a problem credit, but due to the political situation in Bangladesh it was not agreed until the
Mid-Term Review mission (see Mid-Term Review mission Back-to-Office Report, Attachment 11).

Attachment 6 for Management's response). These actions, which would need to be taken before
the Closing Date, are: (a) transfer of one public jute mill -- Hafiz Textiles Mill -- to the private
sector; (b) tender or closure of nine public mills; (c) transfer of assets of two previously closed
public mills to the private sector; and (d) abstain from considering additional loss financing to
public or private mills beyond June 1996. The current Government has given assurances of its
commitment to implement the reform program (Attachment 5), and its preparations for
accomplishing these upfront actions are well advanced. While these actions are not sufficient to
release the second tranche, they would accomplish a significant portion of the conditions.

Management will inform the Inspection Panel of the action taken with respect to extension or
non-extension of the Closing Date.

                              III.    IDA Policies and Procedures

14.     The Requesters assert that they have been harmed as a result of the violation by IDA of
its own policies and procedures. While the particular policies and procedures allegedly violated
by IDA are not specified in the Request, the Notice of Registration issued by the Inspection
Panel observes that the Requesters' allegations "seem to relate to" Operational Directives (ODs)
8.60 (Adjustment Lending Policy), 13.05 (Project Supervision) and 13.40 (Suspension of
Disbursements) (attached as Attachments 7, 8 and 9, respectively). Management has identified
no additional relevant directives.

15.     OD 8.60 describes IDA's general policy on adjustment lending. The directive provides an
overview of the nature of adjustment programs typically supported by IDA, and highlights the
preconditions for designing such programs. As described in OD 8.60, IDA's adjustment lending
policy emphasizes the need to conduct a comprehensive review of the country's economic
policies and programs and of IDA's overall assistance strategy when designing particular
operations. The appropriateness of adjustment lending in a particular country is determined in the
context of an evaluation of the country's economic situation and prospects, its commitment to
reform, the adequacy of the financing plan proposed, and IDA's overall assistance strategy. The
main vehicle for this evaluation is the country assistance strategy (para. 37 of OD 8.60;
Attachment 7).

16.     OD 8.60 also emphasizes the need for strong political commitment on the part of the
government, for adequate funding for the adjustment operation, and for tranche release actions to
be related to the key policy and institutional reforms being supported (paras. 38, 41 and 47,
respectively, of OD 8.60; Attachment 7) The directive further specifies that tranche release
actions should refer to reforms within the competence of the borrower to bring about, and not to
economic performance as outcome of policy changes (para. 48 of OD 8.60, Attachment 7). In
respect of the number of tranches which an adjustment operation should have, OD 8.60 observes
that three tranches are appropriate when the actions to be supported by the operation are
expected to require a longer time to achieve (para. 49 of OD 8.60; Attachment 7).

17.     The design of the JSAC fully met the conditions for designing adjustment programs
stipulated in OD 8.60. As required by OD 8.60, the JSAC was appraised in the context of an
evaluation of the country's economic situation and prospects (para 2, Part I and Matrix, p. 19 of
MOP, Attachment 2); its commitment to reform (which commitment was demonstrated by the
Government's taking the actions necessary for the release of the first tranche upon effectiveness
of the Credit (paras. 59-61, Attachment 2)); and the adequacy of the financing plan proposed and

IDA's overall assistance strategy (paras. 62-64, Attachment 2). The tranche release actions
agreed are within the competence of the borrower to bring about, and the number of tranches are
appropriate for the reform program undertaken.

18.      OD 13.05 establishes minimum supervision standards and reporting requirements to
ensure consistency among operations. In respect of adjustment operations, Annex A to the
directive emphasizes the importance of ensuring that supervision closely monitors the
implementation of adjustment programs along with a country's overall economic performance. It
is noted in the directive that certain changes in supervision emphasis are needed in view of the
different nature and scope of adjustment operations as compared to traditional investment
projects (para. 3 of Annex A to OD 13.05; Attachment 8). It is further noted in the directive that
supervision has to focus on program execution and the timely adoption and effective
implementation of the agreed policy measures and other actions (para. 4 of Annex A to OD
13.05;Attachment 8).

19.      Supervision of the JSAC has also been carried out in accordance with IDA's policies and
procedures, as outlined in OD 13.05. As demonstrated by the attached chronology of letters and
meetings with the Government of Bangladesh during JSAC Supervision (Attachment 10), the
JSAC has been closely supervised by IDA staff, with all major problems in JSAC
implementation being addressed in detail and brought to the attention of the relevant
Government officials.

20.      OD 13.40 outlines the circumstances under which IDA may suspend, in whole or in part,
the right of the borrower to make withdrawals from the credit account. Under adjustment
operations, in general, the right of the borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the credit is
conditional upon the continued progress in the carrying out of the reform program and the taking
of the actions and measures specified for effecting the policy reforms described in the borrower's
program. These actions and measures are required to be taken by the borrower to qualify for the
release of the tranche. They are therefore in the nature of "conditions precedent" to the right of
the borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the tranche. Failure to take these actions, therefore,
means non-fulfillment of such conditions precedent which deprives the borrower of the right to
withdraw the proceeds. Its implications are practically similar, in this respect, to suspending the
right of the borrower to withdraws.5 In respect of JSAC, the first tranche was disbursed at the
time the DCA became effective, but no subsequent tranches have been released by IDA due to
the Government's failure to meet the tranche release conditions. Thus, the Government at present
has no right to make withdrawals. It is therefore clear, in the circumstances, that IDA's
determination that the conditions precedent to the release of subsequent tranches have not been
met, and its consequent refusal to authorize the borrower to make further withdrawals, have the
practical effect of suspending disbursement. In addition, IDA could have canceled the
undisbursed amount of the credit after it had given the borrower a 90-day notice of its


5Under adjustment operations, IDA has the right after reviewing the progress in the carrying out of the program, and
upon giving a 90-day notice, to cancel the undisbursed amount of the credit if it is not satisfied with the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the program, and actions taken by the borrower in that respect. Furthermore, every
adjustment operation contains a remedy that permits the Association to suspend and subsequently to cancel the
entire remaining balance of the Credit if a situation arises which "shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out". The exercise of such remedy, however, is only practical if the situation
contemplated by this provision has arisen after the release of the tranche, but prior to the full disbursement of its
proceeds.

dissatisfaction with the progress in the carrying out of the reform program. Another alternative
available to IDA is to refuse to extend the closing date beyond December 31, 1996, and cancel
the amounts remaining unwithdrawn. Such course of action is highly likely to jeopardize the
Government's efforts to put the program back on track and to realize its objectives which both
IDA and the Requesters agree are worthy of support. Management, as noted above, continues to
consider the program of critical importance to the borrower's economy and is therefore
exercising every effort to support the present Government of the Borrower in its efforts to place
the program back on track.


                                               IV. Allegations

A.      Design

Allegation: The design of the .ISAC was discriminatory and flawed, in that it provided public
sector mills with more favorable capitalization and debt restructuring vehicles than those
provided to the private sector

Allegation: Private Mills Received Lower Loss Financing than did Public Mills

Allegation: Private Mills were denied Working Capital while Public Mills received
uninterrupted and unconditional Working Capital, to the detriment of the Private Mills

21.     The financing program under JSAG includes two components: (a) a first component to
facilitate debt repayment by restructuring the existing long-term debt of both private and public
mills on equal terms (existing long term debt at the time of design of the JSAC was US$356
million equivalent for public mills and US$203 million equivalent for private mills). Under this
component, creditor banks would write off 1/3 of the debt of public and private mills, with the
remaining 2/3 being rescheduled far 15 years with 0% interest and no principal repayment during
the first three years, and with principal repayment during the remaining 12 years at an interest
rate of 3% per annum; and (b) a second component to cover the mills' operating deficits by
providing loss financing (subsidies). Loss financing was calculated for private mills on the basis
of the losses of the best performing private and public mills, and was provided for a duration of
18 months. Public mills were to receive loss financing for a period of 36 months, in amounts
equal to their losses during the first year, to be reduced by 15% per year during a second and
third year 6



22.     The Requesters do not focus on the first component of the JSAC financing program, debt
restructuring, presumably because it is the same for public and private mills. Concerning loss
financing, the Requesters' complaint is that they received lower subsidies and for a shorter period
of time, and that this has had an adverse effect on private mills. It is true that the reform program
provides for private mills to receive lower subsidies for a shorter period of time than public
mills. Loss financing arrangements were different for public and private mills because the
program objectives were also different for each group. In the case of the public mills, the loss
financing arrangements were designed to limit the operating losses of such mills during the
period prior to privatization, since in the absence of the reform program the public sector mills

6For a discussion of the financing program under JSAC, see paras. 76-83 of the MOP, Attachment 2.

would have continued to have access to public sector funding (that is, either from public sector
banks or other public sector agencies). Although loss financing for public mills was to be
provided for up to 36 months, on average the duration of such financing would be less than 24
months, because 14 mills were expected to be privatized or closed early during implementation
of the reform program. In the case of private sector mills, the loss financing arrangements were
limited to a period of 18 months, which was judged adequate to allow these mills to become
competitive, while discouraging inefficient private mills from remaining in production only to
benefit from government subsidies. This 18 month period was also established on the assumption
that privatization of public mills would be fairly advanced at the end of that period, and the
newly privatized mills would not be receiving loss financing.

23.    The Requesters also assert that IDA did not ensure that private mills would receive up to
90% of projected exports value as working capital at the beginning of each year (see numbered
paragraph (1) on page 6 of the Request: "Nowhere near the 90% of forecast exports proceeds
suggested by the JSAC agreement were given as working capital to the private mills"). It is not
correct, however, that the JSAC-supported reform program was designed to provide 90% of
forecast export proceeds as working capital to public or private jute mills. It was thought
inadvisable to attempt to force banks to provide 90% of working capital needs to private or
public mills as directed credit, due to the negative implications this would have for the financial
sector as a whole. Rather, the tranche release condition in the DCA in respect of working capital
provides that the working capital requirements of public and private mills would not be financed
except for such periods of time and up to an estimated amount of working capital requirements
calculated in accordance with methodology satisfactory to the Association (see para. 10,
Schedule 3 to the DCA; Attachment 3). Under this methodology, the 90% of forecast export
proceeds was the maximum amount that could be financed, not a minimum entitlement.

B. Implementation

B.1 Enforcement of Conditionalities

Allegation: IDA is unable or unwilling to enforce the conditionalities of the .ISAC agreement

24.    Management agrees with the Requesters that there are serious problems in
implementation of the JSAC program, and for that reason JSAC has been declared a "problem
credit" (see para. 11). Such problems are detailed in the Aide Memoire of the IDA Mid-Term
Review mission (see Attachment 11). Management has been continually and closely monitoring
the conditions of tranche release and has declined to release the remaining tranches of the credit.
As the letters to Government, Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire and periodic supervision reports
(Attachments 10, 11 and 12, respectively) demonstrate, Management has continually emphasized
to the Government the need to accelerate implementation of its Reform Program, as follows: (a)
conveying serious concern about delays in privatization and recommending quick actions to be
taken for successful tendering of nine mills for privatization (paras. 2, 3, 5, 6, 9-11 of
Attachment 10); ,(b) providing detailed recommendations to ensure timely implementation of the
debt restructuring and loss financing program (paras. 2, 4, 6 of Attachment 10); (c) repeatedly
requesting that mill closures be expedited (paras. 2, 5-7, 10, 11 of Attachment 10); (d) advising
on the preparation of a revised action program to bring JSAC back on track (paras. 11-13 of
Attachment 10); and (e) reflecting the concerns of the Mid-Term Review mission, indicating the

perverse effects of delays in implementing the Reform Program, and recommending actions
necessary for IDA to continue support of the Reform Program7 (para. 14 of Attachment 10).

B.2 Actions by the Borrower

25.     Each of the following allegations and delays in program implementation of which the
Requesters complain (namely, delays in public sector mill closures, downsizing and privatization
resulting in continuing high losses of public mills, increased share in public operating loom
capacity and higher than expected loss financing for public mills) with outcomes opposite to the
intended JSAC objectives, is the result of Government of Bangladesh inaction and failure to
carry out its jute sector Reform Program as agreed with IDA. Such delays are not the result of
any action or omission on the part of IDA, and as such these complaints are outside the
jurisdiction of the Inspection Panel (see footnote 1 above). Nevertheless, in the spirit of full
disclosure to the Panel, we have addressed the Requesters' concerns below.

Allegation: Delays have been Experienced in Implementing Loss Financing

26.     The Government delayed completion of loss financing disbursement to private mills
because the latter had not contributed with financing their 1/3 share of their estimated loss
financing requirements (see paragraph 10(a)(iii) of Schedule 3 to the DCA; Attachment 3).
However, taking into account the situation of the private mills, IDA Management recommended
that theGovernment finalize loss finance reimbursement to private mills by September 30, 1996,
whether or not they had contributed their required 1/3 share (paras. 25-21 of the Aide Memoire
of the Mid-Term Review mission; see Attachment 11). The Requesters also claim that loss
financing has not been discontinued by the Government for those public mills that were to be
privatized according to an agreed-upon timetable (see paragraph 10(d) of Schedule 3 to the
DCA; Attachment 3). Certain of these mills have been tendered, but the process was
unsuccessful (except for one mill, ownership of which is now being transferred) and the
Government continued providing loss financing to these mills until June 1996.

Allegation: Mill Closures have been only partially achieved

27. The Requesters accurately state that out of nine mills to be closed under the JSAC, only four
have actually been closed. The Government has been reluctant to close the remaining five mills,
claiming that it wishes to avoid losing jute markets for Bangladesh, but has expressed its
willingness to privatize these mills instead (see Attachment 5). In accordance with the reform
program, which specifies that mills which are tendered but not sold are to be closed (see
paragraph 26 of the Reform Program Letter, Attachment 1), the Mid-Term Review mission
emphasized to the Government that if such privatization fails, the mills should be closed (see
Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire, Attachment 11).

Allegation: Privatization has not been Implemented

28.     As noted earlier, out of the 19 mills to be privatized under the JSAC, none has been
privatized to date (see para. 11). IDA has repeatedly requested their tender for privatization and
has provided extensive support for the process (see Attachments 10, 11, 12). The new
Government of Bangladesh has expressed its commitment to implement the privatization (see

7The previous Government observed that the political situation made it difficult to continue implementation until
conditions improved

Attachment 5). It is now in the process of privatizing one mill and has issued tenders for nine
mills.

Private Sector Involvement

Allegation: Private sector jute mills, as affected parties, were not adequately consulted during
design and implementation of the .ISAC, particularly in the formal decision-making meetings

29.      The private sector was involved in the design of the JSAC from its inception. The
Requesters acknowledge this explicitly: "We have participated in, or been informed about,
studies, conferences and meetings related to the design and implementation of JSAC"(page 1 of
Request). Later they admit that they "participated personally, or were represented by our private
sector mill organization (BJMA), in Bank sponsored conferences and in meetings with bank staff
to present our views and preferences on the content and nature of the Technical Assistance and
Training component of the reform program" (page 7 of Request)8

30.      IDA staff have gone beyond the policies and procedures and have not only consulted
extensively with the private sector, but also have taken into account their comments and
suggestions during the discussions of the design and implementation of the Government's
Reform Program. Private jute mill owners participated in the preparatory study of the jute sector,
and contributed to the design of the training program for jute workers and managers.9 Their
views were taken into account in the design of the debt restructuring and loss financing
component (See para. 30, Attachment 13). Once the JSAC was approved by IDA's Board, private
jute mill owners also participated in the JSAC launch workshop (Attachment 14). Nearly every
JSAC supervision mission has held meetings with the Bangladesh Jute Mill Association (BJMA,
the industry association of the private jute mills) and with individual private mill owners (see
Supervision Mission Reports dated May, Aug. 1994, Mar. 1995, Jul. and Nov. 1996, Attachment
12). The Mid-Term review wrap-up meeting for the JSAC, held in August 1996, included the
BJMA (of which association all of the Requesters are members), which presented its views to the
Government and IDA staff.

31.      Not every request of the private sector mill owners was or should have been
accommodated in JSAC design, and, accordingly, certain of the requests of the private sector
mill owners were not incorporated in the design of JSAC: for example, in April 1993 BJMA
requested that the pre-estimated losses (that for BJMA were initially based on the performance of
the best five private mills) should be on the basis of industry level data (i.e., should be based on
the performance of public mills also). Taking their recommendation into account, pre-estimated


8The Request contains several allegations in respect of the training component of the Government's reform program
(see numbered paragraph (5) on page 7 of the Request). Management observes that the training component for the
reform program is funded under IDA's ongoing Sixth Technical Assistance Credit (2393BD) and not under the
JSAC.

9 The Government's jute sector reform program was designed based on two extensive studies: (a) the Jute
Manufacturing Study (September 1992) (RUMS), financed by the EEC at a cost of US$1.6 million, with the
Government of Bangladesh as Executing Agency; and (b) an IDA study entitled "Bangladesh--Restructuring
Options for the Jute Manufacturing Industry" (February 1992) (IDA Study), which was used as the basis for
preparing JSAC. The private sector was involved in both preparatory studies. In respect of JUMS, one of the
Requesters served on the team of consultants preparing JUMS, and representatives of the private mills came to
World Bank Headquarters in 1992 to participate in a conference to discuss the preliminary findings of JUMS. In
regard to the IDA Study, the BJMA provided its comments to the report. In respect of the training program.

losses for private mills were considered under the JSAC based on the performance of the best
five private and best five public mills. On the other hand, the Government rejected BJMA's
request that loss financing be for three years for private mills. Whatever the outcome of their
requests, however, private sector mill owners have been involved in all aspects of the JSAC.

V. Conclusion

32.    All relevant IDA policies and procedures have been followed in the design and
implementation of the JSAC, and the Requesters have failed to demonstrate that any of the harms
allegedly suffered by them are the result of the violation by IDA of its own policies and
procedures in either the design or implementation of the JSAC. The delays in JSAC
implementation of which the Requesters complain are the result of Government of Bangladesh
inaction, and are not within the Inspection Panel's purview.




