CREDIT NUMBER 2567 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Jute Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     cQb       , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2567 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated e)D'\10.('t cQ6 , 1994, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrow ) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
December 23, 1993 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies desi-ned to strengthen the jute sector of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in four tranches as
hereinafter provided, consisting of three tranches out of the
Category A Proceeds of the Credit (as hereinafter defined) and a
single tranche out of the Category B Proceeds of the Credit (as
hereinafter defined);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement,";
(b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in


﻿- 2 -
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respactive obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "SITC"  means   the   Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(b)   "Order" means the Bangladesh Industrial Enterprises
(Nationalization) Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 27 of 1972) as
amended  from  time  to   time  providing, inter   alia, for   the
nationalization of certain industrial enterprises and for the
establishment of corporations for the purposes of control,
supervision and co-ordination of the nationalized and some other
enterprises;
(c)   "BJMC" means the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
established under the Order and exercising all the powers of a
corporation (as defined in the Order) in respect of the Public Jute
Mills (as hereinafter defined);
(d)   "Public Jute Mills" means industrial enterprises engaged
in the processing of raw jute, and the manufacture and distribution
of jute products which were nationalized by the Borrower and placed
under BJMC pursuant to the provisions of the Order and enumerated in
the First Schedule thereof as such Schedule is amended from time to
time;
(e)   "Private Jute Mills" means     industrial enterprises
engaged in the processing of raw jute, and the manufacture and
distribution of traditional jute products (sacking, hessian and
carpet backing cloth) which are established and operated under the
laws of the Borrower;


﻿- 3 -
(f)   "Mill" means, as the context may require, a Public Jute
Mill or a Private Jute Mill and "Mills" means, as the context may
require, Public Jute Mills or Private Jute Mills or both;
(g)   "BJC" means the Bangladesh Jute Corporation established
by the Borrower under The Bangladesh Jute Corporation Ordinance,
1985 (Ordinance No. xxx of 1985);
(h)   "Private Banks" means a statistical category of banks as
used by Bangladesh Bank in its publication "Scheduled Bank
Statistics", and includes banks incorporated in Bangladesh in which
the Borrower has a minority holding, and foreign banks doing
business in Bangladesh;
(i)   "Public Banks" means commercial banks and financial
institutions wholly-owned by the Borrower;
(j)   "Debt Write Off, Restructuring and Interim Financing
Arrangement" means the Borrower's Debt Write Of f, Restructuring and
Interim Financing Arrangement dated December 30, 1993 to write off
part of the debt of BJC and the Public Mills closed under the
Program and, to restructure the debt of the Mills owed to Public
Banks and Private Banks and to provide interim financing during
Fiscal Years 1994-1996;
(k)   "Participating Banks" means Public Banks and Private
Banks that participate in the Debt Restructuring and Interim
Financing Arrangement;
(1)   "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower
beginning on July I and ending on June 30 of the following year;
(m)   "Bangladesh Bank" means the Bangladesh Bank established
by the Borrower under the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's
Order No. 127 of 1972) for the purpose of carrying out the business
of central banking;
(n)   "Category A Proceeds" means an amount of the Credit
equivalent to SDR 135,000,000 to be made available in three tranches
subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 (A) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and


﻿(0)   "Category B Proceeds" means an amount of the Credit
equivalent to SDR 40,000,000 to be made available in a single
tranche subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 (B) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred seventy-five million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 175,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such


﻿-5-
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 2004 and ending January 1, 2034. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 1, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment aot yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedules 3 and 4 of this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-7-
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year       after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
exa.ine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary or any
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                 Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By   S                      u       4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                      W
Regional Vice Pre3ident
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group       Sub-group               Description of Items
112               -                 Alcoholic beverages
121               -                 Tobacco,    unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122               -                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or   not  containing   tobacco
substitutes)
525               -                 Radioactive   and   associated
materials
667               -                 Pearls,  precious   and  semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked


﻿- 11 -
Group       Sub-group               Description of Items
718         718.7                   Nuclear  reactors, and parts
thereof,     fuel    elements
(cartridges),   non-irradiated
for nuclear reactors
728.43          -                   Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3                   Jewelry  of gold, silver    or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971             -                   Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g)   expenditures for items in any single SITC Division in
excess of 25% of the total amount of the Credit.
3.    Withdrawals  for   expenditures  under  contracts   for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$2,000,000 may be required by the Association to be upon the basis
of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.


﻿- 12 -
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the:
(A)   Category (A) Proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate
of the Category A Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached: (a) the equivalent of
SDR 35,000,000, unless the Association shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory  to   the  Association:   (i)  that   the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the Program; (ii) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (iii) that the actions described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken; and (b)
thereafter, the equivalent of SDR 85,000,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the Program; (ii) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (iii) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken; and
(B)   Category B Proceeds of the Credit unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the Program; (ii) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (iii) that the actions described in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide    international
circulation; or
(iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 14 -
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Giidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (A)(a)(iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower has: (a) disposed of the equipment of those
Public Mills which have already been closed under the Program and
such equipment of the Mill already downsized under the Program which
will not be required for the operation of such downsized Mill; and
(b) reduced loom capacity in the Public Jute Mills by at least 2,700
looms through the closure of at least five such Mills and
substantially downsizing at least one such Mill.
2.    The Borrower has: (a) reduced the number of permanent
employees in the Public Jute Mills by about 8,000; and (b)
introduced mandatory retirement age for workers in the public sector
as defined under the Borrower's laws and regulations.
3.    The Borrower has:
(a)   ensured that Participating Banks have forgiven and
written off 30 percent of the debt owed to them by BJC calculated in
accordance with methodology satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)   fully discharged, on behalf of BJC, its remaining
outstanding debt obligations to Participating Banks and other Public
Banks and Private Banks, calculated in accordance with methodology
satisfactory to the Association, through, inter alia, the issuance
of bonds by the Borrower to such Participating Banks and other
Public Banks and Private Banks under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower has:
(a)   ensured that Participating Banks have forgiven and
written off 30 percent of the debt owed to them by the Public Jute
Mills closed under the Program calculated in accordance with
methodology satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)   fully discharged, on behalf of the Public Jute Mills
closed under the Program, their remaining outstanding debt
obligations to Participating Banks and other Public Banks and
Private   Banks,  calculated   in   accordance  with   methodology
satisfactory to the Association, through, inter alia, the issuance
of bonds by the Borrower to such Participating Banks and other


﻿- 16 -
Public Banks and Private Banks under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The Borrower has: (a) offered for sale to the private sector
at least nine Public Jute Mills; and (b) has reduced its share in
total loom capacity in the jute industry, taking account of the
reduction pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) hereof, to not more than 7,000
looms.
6.    The Borrower has completed the liquidation of BJC.
7.    The Borrower has ensured that Participating Banks have
concluded arrangements, satisfactory   to the Association, for
restructuring the debt owed to them by the Public Jute Mills
referred to in paragraph 5 (a) hereof, such restructuring to be
based on the following, among other, principles:
(a)   the total amount of the outstanding debt shall be
calculated in accordance with methodology satisfactory to the
Association;
(b)   one-third of the total outstanding debt of each Mill
shall be forgiven and written off by the Participating Banks;
(c)   the remaining two-thirds of the outstanding debt of each
Mill shall be rescheduled with a new amortization period of not less
than 15 years and a grace period of not less than 3 years;
(d)   principal repayments shall be structured in gradually
rising installments; and
(e)   the interest rate during the first three years shall be
0% and thereafter 3% per annum on the remaining outstanding balance.
8.    The Borrower has ensured that Participating Banks have: (a)
concluded arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for
restructuring the debt owed to them by those Private Jute Mills that
have agreed to participate in the Debt Write Off, Restructuring and
Interim Financing Arrangement, such restructuring to be based, among
others, on the principles set forth in sub-paragraphs (a) through
(e) of paragraph 7 hereof; and (b) instituted legal proceedings for
debt recovery against those Private Jute Mills that have refused to
participate in such Arrangement.


﻿- 17 -
9.    The Borrower has compensated the Participating Banks, in
accordance with satisfactory criteria, for the write off of BJC debt
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule and the write off of
the debt of the Public Mills closed under the Program pursuant to
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule, and for the restructuring of the
debt of Mills pursuant to paragraphs 7 and 8 of this Schedule
through the issuance of bonds under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
10.   The Borrower has:
(a)   ensured that beginning July 1, 1993, working capital
requirements and operational losses of the Mills are not financed by
the Participating Banks except for such acceptable periods of time
and up to an estimated amount of such working capital requirements
and operational losses calculated in accordance with methodology
satisfactory to the Association, such       financing to be made
available on the following basis where applicable:
(i)   financing of working capital requirements by the
Participating Banks to be against the security of
export revenue of the Mills;
(ii)   financing on a grant basis of the estimated
operational losses of the Public Jute Mills as
follows:
(A)   100%  of   previous  Fiscal   Year's
operational losses during FY 1993-94;
(B)   85%   of  previous   Fiscal   Year's
financing for such losses during FY 1994-95; and
(C)   85%   of  previous   Fiscal   Year's
financing for such losses during FY 1995-96;
(iii)   financing on a grant basis of up to 2/3 of the
estimated operational losses in case of those
Private   Jute  Mills   that  have   agreed   to
participate in the Debt Write Off, Restructuring
and Interim Financing Arrangement, with at least
1/3 of such losses to be financed by the private
shareholders of such Mills through additional
capital contribution;


﻿- 18 -
(b)   ensured that except as provided in sub-paragraph (a) of
this paragraph 10, no additional financial support is made available
to cover operational losses of the Public Jute Mills, and of those
Private Jute Mills that have agreed to participate in the Debt Write
Off, Restructuring and Interim Financing Arrangement without the
prior agreement of the Association;
(c)   ensured that, subject to sub-paragraph (f) of this
paragraph 10, Public Jute Mills sold under the Program continue to
receive financing from the Participating Banks under clause (iii) of
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 10 except where such Mills,
after being sold, arrange additional financing arrangements on their
own to cover operational losses;
(d)   ensured that those Public Jute Mills that have not been
offered for sale under the Program in accordance with the timetable
provided to the Association have been declared ineligible by the
Participating Banks for receiving financing under sub-paragraph (a)
of this paragraph 10;
(e)   ensured that those Public Jute Mills that do not reduce
their operational losses during FY 1994-95 to at least 85% of the
level of such losses during the previous Fiscal Year are closed;
(f)   ensured that, beginning December 31, 1994, Participating
Banks have terminated all financing of the working capital
requirements and operational losses of the Public Jute Mills sold
under the Program and of the Private Jute Mills under the Debt Write
Off, Restructuring and Interim Financing Arrangement; and
(g)   fully reimbursed the Participating Banks for their
financing of the operational losses of the Private Jute Mills and
the Public Jute Mills in accordance with the provisions of sub-
p.ragraph (a) of this paragraph 10 through, inter alia, the issuance
of bonds under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
11.   The Borrower has ensured that Bangladesh Bank has issued new
prudential guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, to govern
all lending by Public Banks and Private Banks to the Mills with
effect from January 1, 1995.
12.   The  Borrower  has maintained    a macroeconomic   framework
including wage policies in the jute sector satisfactory to the
Association with the objective of restoring and maintaining
profitability in the jute industry.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (A)(b)(iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower has: (a) offered for sale to the private sector
at least nine Public Jute Mills in addition to those offered for
sale pursuant to paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
and (b) has reduced its share in total loom capacity in the jute
industry to not more than 4,000 looms.
2.    The Borrower has ensured that Participating Banks have
concluded  arrangements, satisfactory   to the Association, for
restructuring the debt owed to them by the Public Jute Mills
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) hereof, such restructuring to be
based, inter alia, on the principles set forth in sub-paragraphs (a)
through (e) of paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.    The Borrower has:
(a)   ensured that Participating Banks have forgiven and
written off 30 percent of the debt owed to them by the Public Jute
Mills closed under the Program calculated in accordance with
methodology satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)   fully discharged, on behalf of the Public Jute Mills
closed  under  the  program, their    remaining  outstanding  debt
obligations to Participating Banks and other Public Banks and
Private   Banks,  calculated   in   accordance  with   methodology
satisfactory to the Association, through, inter alia, the issuance
of bonds by the Borrower to such Participating Banks and other
Public Banks and Private Banks under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower has:
(a)   ensured that Participating Banks have continued to
refrain from financing the working capital requirements and
operational losses of the Public Jute Mills except for such
acceptable period of time and up to an estimated amount of such
working capital requirements and operational losses calculated in
accordance with methodology satisfactory to the Association, such
financing to be made available on the basis of the provisions set
forth in clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 10
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;


﻿- 20 -
(b)   ensured that except as provided in sub-paragraph (a) of
this paragraph 4, no additional financial support is made available
to cover operational losses of the Public Jute Mills without the
prior approval of the Association;
(c)   ensured that Public Jute Mills sold under the Program do
not continue to receive financing from the Participating Banks under
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 4;
(d)   ensured that those Public Jute Mills that have not been
offered for sale under the Program in accordance with the timetable
provided to the Association have been declared ineligible by the
Participating Banks for receiving financing under sub-paragraph (a)
of this paragraph 4;
(e)   ensured that those Public Jute Mills that do not reduce
their operational losses during FY 1995-96 to at least 85% of the
level of such losses during the previous Fiscal Year are closed;
(f)   ensured that, beginning June 30, 1996, Participating
Banks have terminated all financing of the working capital
requirements and operational losses of the Public Jute Mills under
the Debt Write Off, Restructuring and Interim Financing Arrangement;
and
(g)   fully reimbursed the Participating Banks for their
financing of the operational losses of the Public Jite Mills under
the Debt Write Off, Restructuring and Interim Finaucing Arrangement
through, inter alia, the issuance of bonds under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The Borrower has compensated the Participating Banks, in
accordance with satisfactory criteria, for the write off of the debt
of the Public Jute Mills closed under the program pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, and for the restructuring of the
debt of the Mills pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule through
the issuance of bonds under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
6.    The Borrower has disposed of the equipment of the Public Mills
closed pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement
and such equipment of the Mills downsized pursuant to such paragraph
which will not be required for the operation of such downsized Mill.


﻿- 21 -
7.    The  Borrower  has maintained    a  macroeconomic  framework
including wage policies in the jute sector satisfactory to the
Association with the objective of restoring and maintaining
profitability in the jute industry.
8.    The Borrower has formulated methodology, satisfactory to the
Association, for adjusting the rate of interest on bonds issued
under the Program to be applicable in the fourth and subsequent
years from the date of issue of the bonds and has informed the
bondholders of such methodology, and, where applicable, has adjusted
the rate of interest accordingly.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (B)(iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower has:
(a)   offered for sale to the private sector a Public Jute
Mill under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and
has taken all such measures as may be necessary or required for
purposes of implementing such sale transaction, including without
limitation, establishing satisfactory procedures for restructuring,
valuation and preparation of such Mill for sale; and
(b)   where no tenders are received in response to such offer
or those that are received are not responsive, has revised the terms
and conditions of such offer in a manner satisfactory to the
Association and has taken such other steps which, in the view of the
Association, shall be adequate to making such Mill attractive for
purchase by the private sector.
2.    The Borrower has ensured that Participating Banks have
concluded  arrangements, satisfactory to    the Association, for
restructuring the debt owed to them by the Public Jute Mill referred
to in paragraph 1 hereof based on the following, among other,
principles:
(a)   the total amount of the outstanding debt shall be
calculated in accordance with methodology satisfactory to the
Association;
(b)   at least one-third of the total outstanding debt of such
Mill shall be forgiven and written off by the Participating Banks;
(c)   the remaining outstanding amount of debt of such Mill
shall be rescheduled with a new amortization period of not less than
15 years and a grace period of not less than 3 years;
(d)   principal repayments shall be structured in gradually
rising installments; and
(e)   the interest rate during the first three years shall be
0% and thereafter 3% per annum on the remaining outstanding balance.


﻿- 23 -
3.    The Borrower has compensated the Participating Banks, in
accordance with satisfactory criteria, for the restructuring of the
debt of the Public Jute Mill pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule through the issuance of bonds under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower has:
(a)   ensured   that  working   capital   requirements   and
operational losses of the Public Jute Mill referred in paragraph 1
hereof are not financed by the Participating Banks except for such
acceptable periods of time and up to an estimated amount of such
working capital requirements and operational losses calculated in
accordance with methodology satisfactory to the Association, such
financing to be made available on the following basis:
(i)   financing of working capital requirements by the
Participating Banks to be against the security of
export revenue of such Mill; and
(ii)   financing on a grant basis of the operational
losses of such Mill on the basis of the following
criteria if applicable:
(A)   100% of previous Fiscal Year's operational
losses during FY 1993-94;
(B)   85% of previous Fiscal Year's financing for
such losses during FY 1994-95; and
(C)   85% of previous Fiscal Year's financing for
such losses during FY 1995-96.
(b)   ensured that except as provided in sub-paragraph (a) of
this paragraph 4, no additional financial support is made available
to cover operational losses of such Public Jute Mill without the
prior agreement of the Association; and
(c)   fully reimbursed the Participating Banks for their
financing of the operational losses of such Mill in accordance with
the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 4 through,
inter alia, the issuance of bonds under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 24 -
5.    The  Borrower  has maintained    a macroeconomic   framework
including wage policies in the jute sector satisfactory to the
Association with the objective of restoring and maintaining
profitability in the jute industry.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of' the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


