Report No. PID11390
Project Name             Russian Federation-Education III
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Primary education (50%); Secondary
education (50%)
Project ID               RUPE75387
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: Lusinovskaya 51, Moscow,
Russian Federation
Contact Person: Mr. Vladimir Filipov,
Minister
Tel: 7-095-237-7675
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        July 11, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 1, 2003
Bank Approval Date       July 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Until relatively recently, it has been tempting to think that the
distinctive culture of learning in Russia, developed in Soviet times,
continues to be in relatively good shape. However, over the last ten
years, declining financial transfers for education combined with the
decentralization of education services (with no clear policy or specific
reform agenda) have combined to affect access to good quality education.
Public financing for education is inadequate to ensure long-term quality
and the lack of predictable, transparent financing at all levels of
government contribute to the poor management of education resources.
School teachers and directors continue to receive meager salaries and the
teaching profession is now failing to attract new entrants.     The risk
continues to grow that many children will be trapped in a cycle where
access to good quality education services and, especially, to third level
education will be denied to all but those able to pay.Moreover, anecdotal
evidence and some emerging (although unofficial) education statistics
indicate that the education system is beginning to be affected by a number
of issues including a growing incidence of illness among children,
increased drop-out rates because of social upheaval or migration, and
disproportionate effects of the general decline in education services on
children in rural areas. Growing regional inequality. Russia's transition
to a market economy has led to a greater divergence of incomes across
regions. A few of Russia's regions have been able to capitalize on their
resource endowments, location and other factors to increase per capita
income relative to the rest and have consequently been able to spend more
on education. Russia's poorest regions, however, are now struggling to
maintain even the basic requirements needed for learning achievement in
schools. Progress in education reform now varies greatly among Regions
and the current fiscal arrangements give MOE no policy leverage to assist
or encourage the regions where education reform is lagging or national



priorities are ignored.Growing inequity. The current emphasis on education
decentralization and diversity is creating inequities and contributing to
a narrowing of choice in good quality education services and labor market
opportunities. Ten years of transition has had adverse effects on the
access afforded to intellectually competent but financially poor students
so they can stay in school and benefit from the courses that would lead
to better opportunities in life. Early specialization and streaming of
students in the secondary system have equity implications because poor
students and late developers are often sidelined and not given the kind of
education that will either equip them to function in a market economy or
enable them to pursue lifelong learning or undertake retraining needs.
Growing reliance on "voluntary" contributions from parents, sponsors and
local communities to fund general education schools may have contributed
to narrowing educational opportunities as well.Rural Schools: Of
particular concern are remote and rural schools. Of all the country's
general secondary schools over 70t are in rural areas; they employ 41- of
the teachers, but they enroll only 29t of the students. The quality of
education in these schools in generally considered poor because of lack of
supplies and antiquated facilities in poor repair. Teachers working in
these rural areas face reduced opportunities for professional development
and scarce teaching and learning resources.Russia's education reform
agenda is resulting in some improvements to the quality of its education
services. Access to these improvements is limited by regional and
municipal financial resources and priorities and to some extent distance
from large population centers. A particular equity concern is the Russian
Government's intention to widen curriculum choice and levels of subjects
in the last two years of general education. Most schools in remote regions
of Russia will have neither the trained teachers nor the teaching and
learning resources to benefit from such improvements in the quality of
education services. The Russian Government sees distance education as a
means of overcoming such access and equity problems. However, the Russian
distance education system is technically and managerially weak and is
hampered by legislative and regulatory barriers. Initial Vocational
Schools: The initial vocational education level of education (IVE) in
Russia, despite some recent efforts, remains largely in a state of
unreadiness to undertake a leap to widespread use of ICT in its teaching
and learning practices. Major structural reform and reorientation to
address Russia's needs to build a workforce with transferable and
recognized competencies and one capable of retraining (as and when needed)
are prerequisites to a shift towards preparing its graduates for active
participation in an information economy.Government StrategyThe Development
Strategy of the Government of the Federation (May 2000) highlighted the
recovery of social capital as a major goal of the new Government's reform
program and recognized that the under-funded and deteriorating education
system will affect the availability of a well educated supply of human
capital and the growth of a flexible and well trained labor force.
Moreover, the Government's Medium Term Reform program identifies five
structural reform priorities, two of which are directly related to the
objectives of this project: (i) improve the innovative and technological
potential of the economy and (ii) reduce regional differentiation in
social and economic development. Furthermore, it is recognized that
urgent measures are needed to ensure that Russia can keep up with
technological change and global knowledge resources. Thus, the reform of
education is a state priority. A recent initiative, the State Council of
the Russian Federation Project, Educational Policy Of Russia At The
- 2 -



Current Stage (July 2001) builds on the Government Development Strategy
stressing three objectives: accessibility, quality and merit. Measures to
achieve these objectives include: (i) extra budget allocations to a total
of 56 billion rubles; (ii) introduction of transparent financing schemes;
(iii) measures to increase teachers' social status and salaries (doubling
of salaries by end 2001). The Russian Government has launched two
programs: E-Russia and E-Education, both designed to ensure that the
entire country, including those in small and remote communities, can
capitalize on the opportunities for economic growth offered by the
information economy. The Russian Government sees the introduction of ICT
into education practices and in particular the introduction of distance
education at the general education level, as a means to overcome current
access and equity issues.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to assist Russia to reorient its
educational system to the global information society through the
development of strategic planning and quality management approaches to the
introduction of ICT in education for teachers, general and initial
vocational educational institutions and systems. The project would (i)
train teachers to use new generation learning materials and to embed ICT
in their teaching; (ii) create modern teaching and learning ICT resource
centers in selected regions of the Russian Federation to increase access
to education services and to disseminate modern teaching practices; and
(iii) build sustainable Russian capacity to produce high quality,
affordable and flexible learning materials to support Russia's ICT in
Education program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is probably the only international organization with sufficient
resources to assist with the provision of: (a) wide ranging international
expertise to get the best state of the art experience for Russia at this
critical moment; and (b) the large amount of investment foreseen in the
timeframe envisaged.
4. Description
The proposed project would have two main components. The first component,
implemented through an ICT Support Fund, would: (a) support both
pre-service and in-service teacher training in the introduction of ICT
into classrooms; and (b) establish a network of resource centers to
improve access to ICT enhanced education opportunities and disseminate new
teaching practices. The second component, implemented at the Federal
level, would focus on meeting the critical shortage of learning materials
for students, teachers and education managers preparing to participate in
a knowledge economy. Component One: ICT Support Fund     (i) Teacher
training in the educational use of ICT.     This component would support
selected regions in training their new and existing teachers and education
managers in the use of ICT in education. Training would take place at both
the pre-service and in-service levels using the teacher training materials
developed in Component Two.(ii) ICT Resource Centers in selected Regions.
The resource centers would provide a range of services and materials for
(i) teacher support and advisory services; (ii) dissemination of ICT in
education practices; (iii) technical and maintenance support services;
(iv) distance education support and (v) community and industry facilities
to provide access to training in the use of ICT and the production of new
- 3-



resources.Component Two:    Development of learning materials to support
ICT in Education Programs This component would remedy the shortfall in new
generation learning materials in Russia by: (i) developing a strategic
planning framework for materials development; (ii) building Russian
instructional design and development capacity in learning materials
production; (iii) producing a range of critical and exemplar learning
materials to introduce a reusable object oriented/constructivist design
approach; and (iv) developing teacher training materials that would focus
on embedding ICT in teaching and learning practices.Component Three:
Project Management
I(a) Teacher Training in the educational use of ICT
l(b) ICT Resource centers in selected regions
2(a) Developing a strategic planning framework for materials development
2(b) Russian instructional design and development capacity in learning
materials production
2(c) Producing a range of critical and exemplar learning materials to
introduce reusable object oriented/constructivist design approach
2(d) Developing teacher training materials to embed ICT in teaching and
learning practices
3. Project management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $0.00
IBRD                     $200.00
IDA
Total Project Cost       $200.00
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Education has proposed that the National Training
Foundation would execute the project on behalf of the MOE. The NTF was
established in 1994 to act as a PIU for the Management and Financial
Training Project (MFTP). In 1996, given its project implementation
experience, the NTF was selected by the Government to be the implementing
agency for the Education Innovation Project.( 1997) The second education
project for Russia, the Education Reform Project, ( 2001) is also being
managed by the NTF.The Ministry of Education will create a Steering
Committee to oversee the preparation and subsequent strategic management
of the proposed project. This Committee will be composed of senior
members of MOE staff as well as senior staff from regional education
administrations and from core Federal Ministries (Economy and Finance).
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project has two aspects - fiscal and
institutional. Fiscal sustainability depends on the generation of enough
resources to fund the activities initiated by the project on an on-going
basis. It is discussed in more detail in section E.2 above. The most
important issue here is that Resource Centers, schools and other
institutions involved in the activities must be able to pay salaries to
teachers and other ICT-related staff that are sufficient to attract and/
or retain them, without squeezing the resources that will be needed for
maintenance, repair, updating and replacement of hardware and software.
The current judgment of the team is that a combination of events and
measures is needed - economic growth, continued tax reform, an increase in
the share of education in the government budget, a reduction in the total
- 4 -



number of teachers, the payment of a temporary marketability premium to
particular categories of ICT teachers and staff, authorization of paid
consultancy work, and attraction of sponsorship from the private sector.
If this combination is achieved, it might be possible to put together a
competitive package for these categories that would not endanger the
sustainability of the equipment and materials that they need.
Institutional sustainability depends primarily on locating activities
initiated by the project, and new institutions created by or in connection
with the project, within structures that are appropriate and strong. For
this project, no new building is envisaged as the Federation has many
under-utilized education buildings available. The problem for
sustainability is that the institutions that are strong tend to be
inappropriate, and vice versa, as Table 1 shows.Table 1: Institutional
sustainability: institutions classified by strength and
appropriatenessInstitutionStrong?Appropriate?NoteGeneral schoolsIn
partYesn Some computers already provided; some connectivity. n Limited
level of readiness. n Possible maintenance and support problems.Initial
vocational schoolsNoYesn Lack of computersn Poor connectivityn General
facilities lacking. n Poor level of readiness. Teacher training
institutionIn partYes for teacher trainingPossible for resource centersn
Very conservative and somewhat resistant to changeOther higher education
institutionsYesNon Have captured bandwidth and facilitiesn Risk that
capacity will not be used for the benefit GE and IVE stakeholders
Educational administrationsIn partPossiblyn Hubs have already been set up
in some regional administrations under the Education Innovations
Project.The location of resource centers is particularly problematic: the
criterion of appropriateness suggests that they should be as close to the
community as possible but the technical strength of the universities in
these fields cannot be denied. Protocols must be developed to ensure that
the purpose and functions of the resource centers remain totally focused
on project outcome targets - general education and initial vocational
education. Also crucial for sustainability is the development of a
national strategic planning process.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
International experience in the introduction of new teaching and learning
practices demonstrates the importance of concentrating on the teaching
profession as a catalyst for change. Hence the proposed project design
focuses on this critical intervention.Experience with sub-lending in
Russia has not been positive. The bureaucratic problems that surround the
approval process for sub loan agreements act as a powerful deterrent to
the design of further operations based on on-lending.       Therefore, the
team has suggested that the approach to sub-regional lending which is
being used in the Regional Fiscal Federalism project may provide a useful
model for the proposed education project.    Details of this approach would
be worked out during a future preparation mission if the Government
indicates support for the proposal.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no significant environmental issues for
the proposed project. Even at this early stage of preparation, it is
clear that there will be no major civil works component in the project.
- 5 -



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mary Canning
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-1974
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
July 19, 2002.
-6-



