                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                        ReportNa: 27757-RU




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$lOO MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                       RUSSIANFEDERATION

                                              FORAN

                                 E-LEARNINGSUPPORTPROJECT

                            INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHE
                   GOVERNMENT'SEDUCATIONMODERNIZATIONPROGRAM

                                           January 20,2004




    HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
    Europe and CentralAsia Region




This document has a restricteddistributionandmaybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance oftheir
official duties.Itscontents maynotbe otherwisedisclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective January 20,2004)

            Currency Unit = Ruble (RUR)
                  RUR 1 = US$0.0348
                     US$1 = RUR28.74

                     FISCAL YEAR
                January 1  --  December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
      CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
      EU        European Union
      FMR       Financial MonitoringReport
      GOR       Government o f Russia
      ICT       Information and Computer Technologies
      IRC       Interschool Resource Center
      IVE       Initial Vocational Schools
       MOE      MinistryofEducation
       MOF      MinistryofFinance
      NTF       National Training Foundation
       PISA     OECD Program for Intemational Student Assessment
       P I U    Project Implementation Unit
       TIMSS ThirdIntemationalMathematics and Science Study

           Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
Country ManageriDirector:      Julian F. Schweitzer
           Sector Director:    Michal Rutkowski
          Sector Manager:      MaureenMcLaughlin
      Task Team Leader:        Mary Canning

                                                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                            RUSSIANFEDERATION
                                      E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




     A. ProgramPurpose and Project Development Objective                                    Page

        1. Program purpose andprogramphasing                                                  3
        2. Project development objective                                                      3
        3. Key performance indicators                                                         4

     B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      4
        2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
        3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 9
        4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 11

     C. Program and Project Description Summary

        1. Project components                                                                14
        2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supportedby the project                        15
        3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
        4. Institutional andimplementation arrangements                                       16

     D. Project Rationale

        1, Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
        2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       19
        3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                                  19
        4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                  21
        5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                       21

     E. Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                          22
        2. Financial                                                                         23
        3. Technical                                                                         24
        4. Institutional                                                                     27
        5. Environmental                                                                     28
        6. Social                                                                            29
        7. Safeguard Policies                                                                32



This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                    33
   2. Critical risks                                                                    34
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    34


G. Main Loan Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           35
   2. Other                                                                             35

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         35

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                            35



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        52
Annex 4: Comparison o f Impact and Cost of the Project                                  53
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary    65
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                   66
           (B)FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                         72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    81
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                   82
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                83
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           86
Annex 11:InstitutionalAssessment andImplementationResponsibilities                      88
Annex 12: Letter o f Sector Policy                                                      100
Annex 13: Government's Modemization Program                                             102




MAP(S)
IBRD 27188R

                                           RUSSIANFEDERATION
                                     E-LEARNINGSUPPORT PROJECT

                                     ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                        Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                  ECSHD

Date: January 20,2004                                  Team Leader: Mary Canning
Sector Manager: Maureen McLaughlin                     Sector(s): Primary education (50%), Secondary education
Country Managermirector: Julian Schweitzer             (50%)
Project ID: PO75387                                    Theme@): Education for the knowledge economy (P)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)

                                                                Estimated
  APL              Indicative Financing Plan            Implementation Period              Borrower
                                                                (Bank FY)
            IBRD               Others       Total      Commitment      Closing
            US$ m      %        US$ m       US$ m           Date         Date
APL 1      100.00     68.8       45.44      145.44     03/16/2004     06/30/2008 Russian Federation
    Loan
APL 2      200.00     74.1       70.00      270.00      12/31/2008    1213112011 Russian Federation
    Loan




IBRD                                                                 77.06             22.94         100.00
Total:                                                               122.50            22.94         145.44

Responsible agency: MINISTRYOF EDUCATION
Address: Lusinovskaya51, Moscow, RussianFederation
ContactPerson: Mr.Vladimir Filipov, Minister
Tel: 7-095-237-7675




                                                  - 2 -

A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Programpurposeandprogramphasing:

The purpose o f this program is to support the education modernization program o f the Government o f
Russia through the orientation of the educational system to the global information society in line with the
Government's e-Russia and e-Education Programs. To achieve this purpose, the program will support a
plan o f activities that will be implemented intwo phases over a period o f 6.5 years.

The program will support the GOR Education Modernization program goals o f improving the accessibility,
quality and efficiency o f general and initial vocational education. The program is designed to set up
enabling conditions to assist with the system-wide introduction and enhanced use o f Information and
Communication Technologies (ICT) inRussian general and initialvocational schools.

The First Phase o f the program will have a duration o f 42 months (3.5 years) and will support the program
goals as well as those o f the e-Education and e-Russia programs through: (i)  the development o f sustainable
Russian capacity to produce high quality, affordable and flexible learning materials; (ii)  the improvement
o f both pre-service and in-service teacher training in the introduction o f ICT into classrooms; and (iii)
establishing a network o f ICT resource centers inproject regions.

It is proposed that the Second Phase o f the program will have a duration of three years. It will utilize and
buildonthe experience gained inPhaseOne ofthe programandwill support the following activities: (i)         the
dissemination o f electronic teaching and learning materials created during Phase One throughout the
Russian Federation; (ii)     continued capacity building, development and launching o f modem electronic
teaching and learning materials; (iii)    the extension o f improved teacher training programs throughout the
Federation with an increased focus on the development, in Russian teachers and administrators, o f the
ability to use I C T as tools to facilitate better learning outcomes; and (iv) the scaling up o f resources
availability inregions andmunicipalities and enhancements to the types o f support they offer.

As a result o f the program, the majority o f schools inproject regions, and leading model schools insome
other regions, will move to a level o f ICT use inteaching and learning that will result inthe efficient use o f
digital learning resources and electronic tools necessary for full participation in a knowledge society;
promote active and independent student learning; and encourage the flexible organization o f learning. As an
outcome, the program will create enhanced labor market-relevant learning opportunities for students,
regardless o f their social status or o f geographical location.

 *Russian schools outside of the vocational sector are designated as "general education schools," and
these schools offer classesfor students in grades 1 through 11. With the exception of a small number of
rural schools, the majority of schools are not separately designated as 'primary" or '5econdary." Since
the large majority of all general schools serve students at bothprimary and secondary levels, thispart of
the education system will be referred to here as "general secondary education."

2. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)

Duringphase one, the proposedproject would support the program goals of improving the accessibility,
quality, and relevance o f Russia's general andfirst level vocational education, to the benefit both o f
learning outcomes (improvement inschool-leaven' ability to use their knowledge and skills inorder to meet
real-life challenges) and o f labor-market outcomes (improvement inschool-leavers ability to findwell-paid
jobs innew occupations).




                                                        - 3 -

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

e        Number o f 9th grade graduates demonstrating ICT competency (inthe project regions) rises by
end 2007.


e        Number o f teachers demonstrating I C T competency (inthe project regions) rises by end 2007


e        Increase innumber o f schools inpilot regions usingnew generation teaching andlearning materials
(not less than 50% o f schools by the end o f 2007).


e        Increase inenrollment o f students from remote areas indistance courses and educational projects
supported through ICT by end 2007.

e        By 2006, a greater share o f schools andmunicipal andregional education administrations in
participating regions with 2006-20 10 e-Education programs.

6. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24127-RU          Date of latest CAS discussion: June 6,2002

The 2003-2005 CAS emphasizes the need to provide modern and flexible education services as part both of
a competitiveness and business development strategy as well as o f a risk management strategy. The
linkages between the development of a strong relevant education system and the growing importance o f a
knowledge society are made throughout the CAS. The proposed e-Learning support project is central to
both the business competitiveness and social risk mitigation goals o f the CAS andwould contribute to these
goals by focusing on capacity buildingfor the provision o f new generation learning materials, the training
of teachers and managers to use ICT and the provision o f modem education services for remote
communities through ICT resource centers.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:

Education and training are increasingly perceived as         " a fundamental key to wealth creation and
competitiveness inthe current global information economy" (OECD). Russia with its strong academic and
intellectual traditions has the potential to develop a skill-based high-technology role through further
development o f its human capital. However, the Global Competitiveness Report has underlined the
magnitude o f the task ahead: on the criterion of micro-economic competitiveness, Russia was ranked 58th
out o f 80 countries in 2002. In the ranking by growth competitiveness (one o f the elements o f which is
'economic creativity', based on economically effective innovation or transfer o f technology), Russia is even
lower, at 64th'. Inthis respect, there is an urgent need to diversify the economy and reduce the dominance
o f natural resource extraction.

General decline in educational sewice delivery: Untilrelatively recently, it has been tempting to think that
the distinctive culture o f learning in Russia, developed in Soviet times, continues to be in relatively good
shape. However, over the last ten years, declining financial transfers for education combined with the
decentralization o f education services have combined to affect access to good quality education. Real
public expenditure per school-age c h l d in2000 was less than two thirds o f its level at the end o f the 1980s.
Public financing for education is now inadequate to ensure long-term quality while the lack o f predictable,



                                                     - 4 -

transparent financing at all levels o f government contributes to the poor management o f education
resources. School teachers and directors continue to receive meager salaries and the teaching profession is
now failing to attract new entrants. (The average wage in the education sector in July 2002 was less than
62 per cent o f the national average wage, and in February 2003 public sector workers in 70 out o f 89
regions staged strikes to protest against low wages and continued arrears.) The risk continues to grow that
many children will be trapped in a cycle where access to good quality education services and, especially, to
third level education will be denied to all but those able to pay. Moreover, anecdotal evidence and some
emerging (although unofficial) education statistics indicate that the education system is beginning to be
affected by a number o f issues including a growing incidence o f illness among children, increased drop-out
rates because o f social upheaval or migration, and disproportionate effects o f the general decline in
education services on children inrural areas.

Growing inequity. Ten years o f transition have had adverse effects on the access afforded to intellectually
competent but financially poor students so they can stay in school and benefit from the courses that would
lead to better opportunities in life. Early specialization and streaming o f students in the secondary system
have equity implications because poor students and late developers are often sidelined and not given the
kind o f education that will either equip them to h c t i o n in a market economy or enable them to pursue
lifelong learning or retraining. Growing reliance on "voluntary" contributions from parents, sponsors and
local communities to fund general education schools may have contributed to narrowing educational
opportunities as well. Even in 1996, 27 per cent o f 19-22 year-olds in the most prosperous quintile o f
households were enrolled in an educational institution, compared with only 11 per cent in the poorest
quintile. Enrolment inprivate schools is still a small proportion o f the total, but selective grammar schools
and lycea for high ability pupils, inwhich poorer families are under-represented, have grown to represent
more than 10 per cent o f total secondary enrolment in2001.

Growing regional inequality. Russia's transition to a market economy has led to a greater divergence o f
incomes across regions. The share intotal income o f the top quintile o f regions interms o f income per head
increased from 38 to 53 per cent between 1994 and2000, while that o f the poorest 40 per cent fell from 18
to 13 per cent. Inthe first half o f 2002, top-quintile regions absorbed 56 per cent o f total and 66 per cent o f
foreign investment, while the poorest 40 per cent received 10 and 2 per cent respectively (World Bank
2002). A few o f Russia's regions have thus been able to capitalize on their resource endowments, location
and other factors to increase per capita income relative to the rest and have consequently been able to spend
more on education, both publicly and privately. Russia's poorest regions, however, are struggling to
maintain even the basic requirements needed for learning achievement in schools. Progress in education
reform now varies greatly among regions and the current fiscal arrangements give MOEno policy leverage
to assist or encourage the regions where education reform is lagging or nationalpriorities are ignored.

At a time when Russia is moving to equip its citizens with the skills needed for full participation in a
knowledge economy, the decentralization o f the Russian education system in the nineties has also resulted
in a growing inequity of ICT availability across the education system. For a number of poor regions,
simply equipping schools with hardware is still the priority. Only some o f the richer regions are at the next
stage o f embedding ICT in educational practices. Most rural regions o f Russia are digitally divided from
their richer neighbors in cities. While Russia's current education reform agenda is resulting in some
improvements to the quality o f its education services for some more fortunate students, access to these
improvements is limited by regional and municipal financial resources and priorities and to some extent
distance from large population centers. A particular equity concem is the RussianGovernment's intention
to widen curriculum choice and raise levels o f subjects in the last two years o f general education. Most
schools in remote and rural regions o f Russia will have neither the trained teachers nor the teaching and
leaming resources to benefit from such improvements in the quality o f education services. Of all the
country's general schools over 70% are in rural areas; they employ 41% o f the teachers, but they enroll


                                                       - 5 -

only 29% o f the students. Enrolment rates for 15-22 year-olds are much higher inurban than inrural areas.
The quality o f education inthese rural schools is generally considered poor because o f lack o f supplies and
antiquated facilities in poor repair. Teachers working in these rural areas face reduced opportunities for
professional development and scarce teaching and learning resources. The Russian Government sees the
use o f I C T based learning and training resources for both students and teachers (along with targeted use of
distance delivery methods) as a means o f overcoming such access and equity problems. However,
legislative and regulatory barriers currently hamper the introduction o f ICT into educational practices
throughout Russia andthe Russian distance education system is technically andmanagerially weak.

Teacher-centered rather than student-centeredlearning in Russia's Schools

InRussia's schools, instructional methods have changed relatively little over the past several decades, and
provide few opportunities for students to develop the analytical thinkingand problem-solving skills that are
valued in today's market. Instruction remains predominantly teacher-centered with little evidence o f the
s h f l to constructivist and student-centered approaches that has accompanied pedagogical reform in
countries with development-for-knowledge-society agendas.

Constructivist teaching helps students understand, organize and evaluate new material and develop deeper
applied problem-solving skills. Essential features o f constructivist teaching and learning point to the need
for students to:


0         work directly with concepts, materials, and environments, taking on the role o f experimenter,
testing hypotheses, and seeking to draw conclusions based on information gathered. The student's work is
made visible via projects which demonstrate successful, thoughtful application o f the full range o fmaterial
learned;
0         work in group or team settings whenever possible. Doing this supports and deepens how new ideas
are acquired, stored, and later retrieved. It makes newly learned concepts more useful, since social
interaction increases their connectedness to other, already-learned material, and they thus become more
practically applicable, more integrated into a student's ways o f thinking;
0         work in real-world settings. The setting for learning reflects as closely as possible the environment
where problems will need to be solved inthe real world. Ifdirect encounter with the real world is not
possible, simulations can be used effectively. Students should interact with the material to be learned in
multiple, different ways.
0         be assessed in ways consistent with thepoints above. Students' work is assessedthrough direct
work with concepts, as reflected inprojects resulting from their application; through group- or team-based
projects; and insettings similar to those inwhich the concepts learned will be used inthe real world.

Use o f I C T is not absolutely essential for teachers and learners to work in these ways: extraordinary
teachers can develop ways to teach their students in constructivist ways using traditional materials, and
bright, highly motivated students can figure out how to respond successfully. But for most teachers and
students, it is simply too complex to find the materials, organize them, coordinate and track the student
learning that results, and report on it in ways that make sense to students, parents, and the community
(employers, etc.) Using ICTs vastly simplifies the process, and can make it possible for ordinary teachers
and students to collect, organize, use, and assess information from a much wider variety o f much more
supportive materials. Inessence, ICTs allow the teacher to:


0         rapidly collect and organize (or re-organize) materials to meet specific learner needs;
0         present more examples, questions, supplementary materials, illustrations, visualizations, extended
examples, etc., which work inways that deepen leaming, provide support for the learner, and help connect



                                                      - 6 -

the leaming to more already-established points inthe learner's repertoire. (Creating these sorts o f internal
points o f reference and connection for the learner is sometimes called generating a "scaffolding.");
0       simulate more closely the kinds o f real-world situations and environments inwhich the new
concepts will eventually need to be used;
0       have students create anddisplay products which demonstrate learning invery concrete ways.
0       collect, assemble, review, and display the products o f student learning inways that are more useful
for the student, parents, community members, and for the teachers' continued professional development
with other teachers.

Teachers and other Educational Support Staff lack motivation to improve their teachingpractices or
change their mindsets
Russian teachers, who frequently practice their profession in substandard cold buildings, are particularly
demoralized by their low salaries ( ranging inmid-2002 from $15 to $68) and having them frequently paid
inarrears. Conditions such as these put the survival of the education system at risk and threaten the
formerly high quality o f student outcomes in many schools. It is hardly surprising therefore that those
graduates o fteacher training institutions who can find other jobs do so. (estimated 70%).

Teaching in Russia remains on the whole based -transition pedagogical methodologies which are largely
focused on imparting rote knowledge and low-level job skills instead o f a more contemporary constructivist
approach to learning intended to help students create deeper meaning via development o f flexible,
collaborative problem-solving abilities. As already discussed, although teaching and learning materials
based on ICT can help significantly to foster these abilities instudents, few teachers are able to work easily
with such materials. Future teachers enrolled in initial teacher-training programs typically are not being
exposed to these contemporary approaches to pedagogy. Once they move into full-time teaching positions,
practicing teachers usually receive only rare and isolated opportunities for re-training; have little
opportunity to consider the usefulness o f embedding ICT intheir teaching practices; and do not have the
chance to develop their pedagogical thinking together with other teachers from the same school or working
inthesamesubject domain.
As schools, especially inrural areas and inpoorer regions, are often struggling to survive and are unable to
do more than patch crumbling infrastructure and pay teachers salaries, there is frequently no budget
available to purchase teaching and learning materials. When they can be purchased, these teaching and
learning materials tend to be o f poor quality and are often out o f date. The few I C T materials available are
designed according to old standards that make them inflexible and unsuitable for use in a range o f lessons
or subjects; make poor use o f the potential o f new technologies; are rarely accompanied by appropriate
teacher-training or guidance materials; and there is typically little expert support available for teachers on
how to use them effectively. Nor are teachers ready and able to take advantage o f ICT-based teaching and
leaming courses offered that could provide new opportunities for many highly capable students living in
remote areas. Teachers are not trained to work with the new kinds o f ICT-based &stance learning
environments that are now available, and they are not acquainted with the pedagogical requirements for
supporting students working at a distance.

A further important issue is Russia's current lack o fpersonnel specifically trained to design new ICT-based
teaching andlearning materials according to international standards. There i s now an accepted international
understanding about how instructional design is to be done, and how its products (teaching-learning
materials) are to be developed and tested. Lacking an infrastructure o f trained personnel able to take on
these tasks means not only that Russia's teachers and students are deprived o f new-generation
teaching-learning materials, it also means that there are no good models o f appropriate ICT-based
pedagogy that can be disseminated, no system to test new ICT-based materials, and no Russian capacity to



                                                      - 7 -

initiate the development o f instructional design capacity at the local or regional level.

Lack of relevance to labor market needs

Although Russian students continue to perform relatively well inthe TIMSS tests o f academic achievement
inmathematics and science, the 2000 results of the OECD Program for International Student Assessment
(PISA) are a fiu-ther indication that the education system is not producing students with skills that are
relevant to a real life situations. PISA methodology tests students' ability to use their knowledge rather than
just present it, to interpret a text and to recognize scientific and mathematical problems. Among 31
countries that participated in PISA 2000 (27 OECD countries plus Brazil, Latvia, Liechtenstein and the
Russian Federation), Russia's 15 year old students were ranked only 27th in reading literacy, 26th in
scientific literacy and 22nd inmathematical literacy.

Previous Bank sector reports and project work have singled out the unreadiness o f the general and, in
particular, the vocational school systems to respond to market signals. The initial vocational level o f
education (IVE ) in Russia, despite some recent efforts, remains especially worrisome as it consumes a
large amount o f scarce resources and has a rigid and narrow subject-bound curriculum, obsolete
equipment, and a teaching force that is relatively inflexible, highly specialized and not capable o f being
easily retrained. With some exceptions in regions that are particularly reform minded (e.g. those regions
that have participated in EU and donor financed N.W. Russia VET project or those that are currently
participating in the Bank financed Education Reform Project), there is little evidence that the system o f
initial vocational education is ready to initiate a competency based, modular approach that has been largely
adopted in most OECD countries. Moreover, vocational school graduates are poorly equipped with the
foundation learning skills necessary to undertake further learning or life-long learning effectively.

Government Strategy

The Development Strategy o f the Government o f the Federation (May 2000) highlighted the recovery o f
social capital as a major goal o f the new Government's reform program and recognized that the
under-funded and deteriorating education system will affect the availability o f a well educated supply o f
human capital and the growth o f a flexible and well trained labor force. Moreover, the strategy document
identifies five structural reform priorities, two o f which are directly related to the objectives o f this project:
(i)improve the innovative and technological potential of the economy and (ii)reduce regional
differentiation insocial andeconomic development.

The Government strategy recognizes that urgent measures are needed to ensure that Russia can keep up
with technological change and global knowledge resources. It also recognizes that ultimately, the impact o f
these forces on the already troubled school system may pose serious threats to Russia's survival as a major
world economic and scientific power. Thus, the reform of education is a state priority.

The Concept of Modernization of Russian Education for the period up to 2010, approved by the
Government in 2001 and the initiative o f the State Council o f the RussianFederation Project, Educational
Policy Of Russia At The Current Stage (July 2001) build on the Government Development Strategy,
stressing three objectives: accessibility, quality and merit. Measures to achieve these goals include: (i)    extra
budget allocations; (ii)introduction o f transparent financing schemes; and (iii)measures to increase
teachers' social status and salaries.

Active discussions are also taking place on Russia's need to move rapidly toward an information economy.
This movement is marked by the two ambitious Federal programs: Development of the CommonEducation
Information Spacefor 2001-2006 (E-Education) andElectronic Russiafor 2002-201 0 (E-Russia). These
programs aim to create "conditions for buildingan effective well balanced economy focused on domestic



                                                       - 8 -

consumption and export o f mformation technologies and services" (E-Russia). Their common strategy
includes the acceleration o f the introduction and integration o f I C T in education (ICTE). For the first time
higher education is not the exclusive focus o f attention: Russia has recognized the urgent need to embed
I C T in its educational practices inboth general and vocational education and views the strengthening o f the
distance education system at the level o f general education as a means to overcome current access and
equity issues.

Two presidential programs have equipped schools with computers and related equipment. In 2001, the
Computers for Rural Schools program, administered by the Ministry o f Education, invested one billion
rubles in computer equipment for rural schools ineighty-five regions on a ruble-for-ruble arrangement with
the regions. Following an open tender, 30,715 rural schools (96.8 percent o f the total number o f schools
eligible for the program) received more then 76,000 units o f ICT equipment, including 56,500 computers.
Each school also received a special set o f CD-ROMs o f the best Russian education software available.
(The search for software to accompany computer distribution in this program revealed the dearth o f
Russian high quality and relevant educational software available.) More than 10,000 teachers from rural
areas received additional training. This program is expectedto have far-reaching benefits for rural children
but unfortunately does not appear to have a built-in system o f indicators for evaluating program
effectiveness. The second program, Computers for Urban Schools, was included in the 2002 Federal
budget with R2.5 billion aimed at puttingone computer class (10+1 computers) into 9,000 urban schools.
Federal financing will be 40 percent o f the total with 30 percent coming from regional and 30 percent from
municipal level budgets.

The Socio Economic Development Program of the Russian Federation of 2003-2005 (March 2003)
contiues the emphasis on the need to develop "a new economy" that "relies in significant measure on
investments in human capital", building on the relative advantages o f the RF and on the assumption that
"access to education upgrades the quality o f the country's human capital". Thus the project focus matches
the focus o f the Government Program on "the quality o f education services and equity through maximizing
the role o f ICT". The project is designed to give the needed support to these programs and back up the
strategic choice o fthe GOR to push Russia towards the global knowledge economy.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

Inboth its educational sector work and lendingprogram, the Bankhas beenworlung inclose partnership
with the Government to develop policies to address the recovery o f social capital as a major goal ofthe new
Government's reform program. The E-Education and E-Russia program and the Bank report, e-Learning
Policies to transform Russian schools, provided guidance on ICT related issues by identifying priority
measures to address the key sector issues: (i) equality o f access; (ii) enhanced teaching and learning for the
information age and (iii)   the development o f appropriate skills by both teachers and students. The report,
e-Learning Policies to transform Russian schools concludes that, while the use o f ICT in realizing all
three reform goals is very relevant for Russian education, none o f these three goals is explicit enough in
policy documents or inthe E-Education andE-Russia programs' definition o f performance indicators. The
means o f achieving all three are interconnected.

The project has followed the guidance o f the study inidentifying the most urgent sector issue as equality o f
access. The digital divide is growing in Russia: new policies and programs must ensure that they do not
foster that growth. One issue related to equity concerns the Initial Vocational Schools. As children from
lower-income families are over-represented in such schools, it is important that they should get an equitable
share o f project resources. However, given the situation inthe IVE system described above in section 2, it
would not make sense for the project to support development of ICT-based materials and practices for



                                                      - 9 -

those current vocational courses that are narrow, out o f date, low-technology and with small numbers o f
students. For general education subjects, IVE students will have access to the materials produced for
general schools, and the project will ensure that their general-education teachers get the requisite retraining.
For vocational courses, the emphasis inthe first phase o f the project will be on exploring the possibility o f
an e-learning approach to some courses that impart broadskills, or high-technology skills relevant to 'new'
professions. Another criterion for selection o f such courses will be the existence or prospect of a high level
of labor-market demand for their graduates.

It is clear that the project must also address the second and third issues emphasised by the e-Learning
Policies report - quality and relevance. The government has already chosen the use of ICT in education as
its strategy for this purpose. The decision to support this strategy with inputs that will make it work reflects
the view that this may be the only way to achieve the necessary shift inapproaches to teaching and learning
within a reasonable time.



 YectorIssue                                 Strategic Choices
  Growing Inequity                          Student centered learningmaterials suitable for use by independent learners,
                                            and training o f teachers to use these, will offer new opportunities for capable
                                            students, regardless o f geographical or social status to access new learning
                                            opportunities with enhanced cumcula. The project will also diminish the
                                            relative disadvantage o f disabled children and o f children from poorer
                                            families.
 kegional Inequality                        The project will addressthe needs o fremote areas and o f rural schools by
                                            creating a network o f educational resource centers that will be widely
                                            dispersedthroughout regions, thereby facilitating access by rural teachers,
                                            students and local communities. The project will focus on the development o f
                                            educational materials that can be delivered either on CD Rom or by satellite to
                                            remote communities wherever they are situated. These two measures, resource
                                            centers and the availability o f new learning materials, would significantly help
                                            overcome the growing risk o f digital divide among Russia's regions and within
                                            regions.
 IeterioratingQuality                       The project will buildcapacity to develop and use relevant and up-to-date
                                            e-teaching and learning materials for use throughout the R.F. Training will be
                                            provided for those who will work as instructional designers for the emerging
                                            Russian e-learning materials industry; support staff will be trained to work
                                            with teachers inimplementingnew teaching approaches; software will be
                                            tested and distributed. New e-learning materials will stimulate the
                                            development and use of modem teaching methods.
  Quality o f Student Outcomes              The project will improve the outcomes o f education for students in the project
                                            regions by providing them with the opportunity to develop contemporary
                                            problem-solving skills, the ability to work more easily in real-world settings,
                                            the ability to use ICT-based resources flexibly, and the ability to work
                                            successfully as part o f a team. These skills and abilities will be supported
                                            through new ICT-based learning materials, and through teachers' development
                                            o f a new, more appropriate constructivist pedagogy. The project will also
                                            provide distance support to ensure access to advanced cumcula for students
                                            from rural and remote areas.
 )uality o f Teachers and Other             The project will provide training on use of new ICT-based teaching and
 Iducational Support Staff                  learningmaterials for the majority o f teachers and educational administrators
                                            inthe project regions. Training will incorporate bestpractices from current
                                            knowledge about school reform and the professional development o f educators:
                                            teachers will be trained inteams, they will undergo regular training over time,



                                                      - 1 0 -

                                            their administrators will also be trained at the same time to provide local
                                            support, and special ICT support staff will also be trained and made available
                                            via a network o f resource centers.
 .elevance o f Initial Vocational Education The project will provide support to IVE schools via improved ICT-based
                                            teaching and leaming materials designed to develop general problem solving
                                            skills in wide demand inthe labor market. Further,both the materials to be
                                            developed and the teacher training to be createdprovide for rapid and flexible
                                            repurposing o f instructional approaches.
  Relevance o f Regulatory Frameworks       The project will provide exemplar draft regulatory materials pertaining to
                                            creation and use o f ICT-basedteaching and leaming materials, teacher
                                            training and distance delivery.



4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The FirstPhase o f the program will have a duration o f42 months (3.5 years) and will support the program
goals as well as those o fthe e-Education and e-Russia programs through: (i)       the development o f sustainable
Russian capacity to produce high quality, affordable and flexible learning materials; (ii)       the improvement
o f both pre-service and in-service teacher training in the introduction o f ICT into classrooms; and (iii)
establishing a network o f ICT resource centers inproject regions.

Trigger 1. Regulatory documents for ICT use in education have been discussed and approved at Federal
andRegionallevels.

Trigger 2. An e-Education strategy for 2006-2009 is developed and approved by the Ministry o f
Education.

Trigger 3. A National collection o f digital leaming resources for general and initial vocational education is
established, is accessible through the whole Federation and contains a broad range o f resources covering
main curriculum areas.

Trigger 4. At least 50% o f general school teachers in seven pilot regions o f the first Phase are trained for
the effective use o f ICT.


Phase Two: Implications for extension of the project objectives

The second phase o f the project will buildupon the capacities and experience developed inPhase One. A
description of possible extended objectives is described below. However, it is important to recognize that
information technologies are constantly and rapidly evolving. New industries are emerging that are
expected to alter the knowledge and shlls required to maintain economic growth. Flexible and changing
educational services that provide lifelong leaming opportunities are now recognized as essential ingredients
ofmodem andadaptive national economies trading globally.

The capacities developed in the first phase o f the project will permit the continuing professional
development o f Russia's educational workforce. Furthermore, the scaling up of experience gained in the
Phase One pilot regions will assist other regional communities adapt to concepts of lifelong learning by
giving individuals (children and adults) access to modem communications and information resources that
will enable them to obtain up-to-date and just-in-time training and education. This will, in turn, permit



                                                      -11 -

communities, particularly in isolated regions experiencing population decline, to cope with the effects o f
changes inthe type andavailability o f employment that results from technologically driven shifts indemand
for products and services.

  Sub-component                           Phase Two Activities
  1: LearningMaterials
 1.1:                                     Administrative procedureswill need to be developed to drive the regular review
 Regulatory framework o f e-Learning      o f legislation and regulation inthe areas o f ICT and Education at Federal and
                                          regional levels. Inparticular, guidelines relating to copyright law, intellectual
                                          property, metadata standards are likely to be particularly challenging for some
                                          years to come.
                                          The second phase o f the project will needto establish mechanisms for ensuring
                                          that these elements are monitored and adjusted after the project ends by
                                                                                                    - -
                                          Federal, Regional, Municipal and Institutional agencies.
 1.2:                                     The introduction o f ICT to educational and industryinRussia will leadto
 Development and management o f           significant adjustment to the structure o f curriculum in all education and
 digital learning resources               training areas.
                                          The second phase will involve the upgrading o f existing digital resources to
                                          reflect the adoption o f new teaching techniques as well as the incorporation of
                                          new methodologies into curriculum areas not covered inPhase One.
                                          New Federal strategies (both social and economic) will certainly drive an
                                          increasing demand for access to current and relevant educational and training
                                          resources.
                                          Russian economic growth will almost certainly be accompanied by an
                                          increasing demand for adult education and training (or re-training). Materials
                                          development decisions inthe second phase will be influencedby these factors.
                                          Software applications and tools are evolving rapidly. It is reasonable to expect
                                          the second phaseto review the capabilities o f applications acquired inPhase
                                          One and to evaluate, from education and training perspectives, new software
                                          options and make recommendations on acquisitions to the Government o f
                                          Russia.
                                          It is expectedthat learningmanagement tools developed inthe first phase will
                                          operate at Institutional as opposed to Regional or National levels. This will be
                                          so inpart because the Russian telecommunications infrastructure is developing
                                          and it may be some time before every school has access to sufficient bandwidth
                                          to carry both educational and management data across a wide-area network.
                                          However, it i s possible that the second phase will permit more sophisticated and
                                          system-wide data management (delivering more efficient and effective
                                          educational services). Such systems will require the development o f new data
                                          management platforms.
 2: Teacher Training
 2.1:                                     The regulations and guidelines pertainingto pre-service and in-service teacher
 Regulatory Framework for Teacher         training are likely to require regular review in response to changing demand for
 Training inuse o f ICT                   access to education and training. Teaching and learning techniques are
                                          expected to adjust, perhaps insignificant ways as communications technologies
                                          become more accessible to the public o f Russia. These changes inpedagogical
                                          approach will needto be mirrored by regulatory adjustment. The secondphase
                                          o f the project will establish mechanisms for this to continue beyondthe life o f
                                          the project.
 2.2:                                     In-service training ofteachers and staff ingeneral and initial vocational
 Improvement o fteachers'                 schools may requireextensive review in the secondphase. Ifthe economic
 qualifications and support o f teachers' growth objectives o f the Russian Government are to be realized, a significant



                                                        - 12-

:-leaming activities                    adjustment to vocational education approaches, both for youth and adults will
                                        be needed. New industries and modemized agricultural, manufacturing and
                                        service industry approaches will demand up-to-date skills innew and existing
                                        workers.
2.3:                                    Digital and Multimedia design skills are becomingmore relevant for all
Development o f instructional design    industriesas they increasingly use new technologies to capture information
:apacity                                from their markets and to promote their services and products to their markets.
                                        The second phase o f the project will extend training activities ininstructional
                                        and Internet design to educators and the multimedia industry.

                                        The involvement o f the multimedia industry is seen as an important mechanism
                                        to ensure that competition between privately owned multimedia developers acts
                                        to contain the costs o f educational product development. It i s also recognized
                                        that a well developed multimedia industry is more likely to acquire the most
                                        modem hardware and software tools to service their commercial clients. The
                                        education sector can benefit directly and indirectly from this activity.
~~
2.4:                                    The role o fPedagogical (teacher training) Institutes i s expected progressively to
Pre-service teacher training            include more continuing professional development activity and more training
                                        inICTuse, including inpedagogicalpractice (studentor cadet teaching)
                                        completed prior to a teacher's initial licensurekertification.
3: Resource Centers:
                                        Following management review and refinement o fthe lessons leamed in Phase
3.2:                                    One pilot regions, Phase Two o f the project will include the establishment o f a
Establishing Interschool Resource       number o f new resource centers, the maintenance o f training activities insome
Center networks in a number o f         existing resource centers and the functional transformation o f some existing
additional regions.                     centers to reduce teacher training activities (as the teachers innearby schools
                                        are progressively trained) and new student and community education functions
                                        are introduced.
3.2:                                    Networking and information management issues will become progressively
Systemic support to the introduction    more challenging as the number o f resources created and contributedto the
o f ICT in general and initial          education sector grows. Federal and Regionalauthorities will need to develop
vocational education on the basis o f a procedures that carefully manage the creation, storage, maintenance,
network o f IRCs                        distribution, archiving and destruction o f materials. Another dimension to be
                                        considered is the balancing the management o f nationally relevant materials
                                        with those that have only a regional or local utility.
                                        These issues are complex but fundamental to the long term efficiency o f
                                        information management. Phase Two will require a significant investment in
                                        the creation o f these systems.
                                        Additionally, the provision o f curriculum support to students inisolatedareas,
                                        where there is no local teacher expert available inthe subject neededby the
                                        student, will require communications and resourcemanagement
                                        approaches very different from those usedtoday. It is expected that the
                                        experience gained in Phase One will inform later developments.
  3.4:                                  Any growth indemand for continuing and adult leaming will require the
  Development o fpublic support and     provision o f useful information to the public. It is expected that the adjustment
  awareness                             to curriculum and teaching and leaming methodologies will not be quickly
                                        understood by the public unless they are regularly informed o f developments.
                                        This activity may grow in the second phase.




                                                      -13-

C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

The proposed project would support the education modemization program goals o f improving the
accessibility, quality, and efficiency o f general and first level vocational education in Russia through: (i)
buildingsustainable Russian capacity to produce highquality, affordable andflexible learning materials to
meet the needs o f students, teachers and education managers preparing to participate in a knowledge
economy; (ii)  supporting both pre-service and in-service teacher training in the introduction o f ICT into
classrooms and its embedding inteaching and learning practices; and (iii)     establishing inproject regions a
network o f resource centers which would improve regional access to ICT enhanced education opportunities
anddissemination ofnew teaching practices. Seven regions, have been selected to participate inthe project:
Khabarovsk; Krasnoyarsk; Perm; Chelyabinsk; Karelia; Kaluga and Stavropol.

The project is designed to set up enabling conditions to support the system-wide introduction andenhanced
use o f ICT in Russian general and initial vocational schools. As a result o f the project, the majority o f
schools inproject regions and leading model schools insome other regions, would move to a level o f ICT
use in teaching and learning that would result in the efficient use o f the digital learning resources and
electronic tools necessary for full participation in a knowledge society; promote active and independent
student learning; and encourage the flexible organization o f learning. As an outcome, the project will create
enhanced, and labor market-relevant learning opportunities for students, regardless o f their social status or
of their geographical location.

Component One: Learning Materials

This component would remedy the critical shortfall in new-generation learning materials in Russia by: (i)
developing the regulatory documents for materials development and use; (ii)developing, licensing and
distributing a range o f critical and exemplar learning materials to introduce a reusable object
oriented/constructivist* design approach (including materials for students who study subjects not offered at
their local schools); and (iii) materials that would focus on embedding ICT inteaching and learning
                              testing
practices.

Component Two: Teacher Training in the Educational Use of ICT

This component would support: (i) training o f new and existing teachers and education managers in
                                      the
project regions inthe use o f ICT ineducation; and (ii) development o f Russian instructional design and
                                                          the
development capacity in learning materials production. Teacher training would take place using the
teaching and learning materials developed inComponents One and Two. An outcome o f the project will be
the availability o f new generation teacher training materials and advisory services throughout the Russian
Federation.

Component Three: Development of a Network of Interschool Resource Centers

The Regional and District interschool resource centers would provide a range o f services and materials for
(i)strategic planning for the effective use o f ICT in education; (ii) support and advisory services;
                                                                       teacher
(iii) disseminationofICTineducationpractices; (iv)theextensionofcurriculumofferingstoisolated
    the
regions by providing support for selected distance education services; (v) the extension o f community and
industry access to training in the use o f ICT and the production of new resources and (vi) computer
maintenance in schools. These centers will be linked with the e-Learning support centers established by the
MinistryofEducationat Federal level.


                                                     - 14-

ComponentFour: Project Management

The project will be managed by the existing MOE Strategic Management Committee composed o f Federal
Ministry officials and senior education managers from the participating Regions. This committee will
coordinate and link GOR e-Russia and educational programs among all stakeholders. The project will
finance: (i) establishment o f a Federal project implementation group; (ii) creation o f capacity to
              the                                                                              the
monitor implementation and social development outcomes through continuous social assessment; and (iii)
transparent and effective procurement and disbursement practice.

*An object is defined as a digitally copied item (for example, an image, sound file, block of text, animation etc) with some
educational utility in its own right but with a greater utility when combinedwith other objects to form interactive educational
products. The availability of `objects' will permit teachers and students to `construct' leaming pathways relevantto individual
andcollective needs.




  Component Two: Teacher training inthe educational use o f                     43.24           29.7         26.95          27.0
  I C T
  Component Three: Development o f a Network of Interschool                     63.45           43.6         42.40          42.4
  Resource Centers
  ComDonent Four: Proiect Management                                             3.65            2.5          3.06           3.1
                                                   Total Project Costs         145.44          100.0       100.00          100.0
                                                           Front-end fee         0.00            0.0          0.00           0.0
                                         Total Financing Reouired              145.44          100.0       100.00          100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
    The proposedproject aims to support key policy and institutionalreforms as follows:

          A national strategic approach for the introductiono fICT ineducation founded on wide
          professional, regional and municipal level consultation
          The basis andreference points for the implementation o f necessary regulatory reform.
          A commitment to the adoption o f software development protocols that address current and ongoing
          educational needs andwhich permit Russia to compete intemationally inthe supply o f education
          products.
          The provision o f I C T skills to educators and developers o f educational products throughout
          Russia.
          A delivery system for educational services for target groups with specialneeds
          The creation o f a non-formal sector ineducation
          A system to support teachers' innovative activities andprofessional development
          Enhancednational capacity to produce e-learning materials

3. Benefits and target population:
The project has a regional focus which will ensure that its the immehate benefits will be enjoyed by
teachers, administrators, students, employers and local communities mostly inparticipatingregions.



                                                                - 1 5 -

    Russian students will benefit from: (i)improved access to a wider range o f subjects and new curricula
    as they become available; (ii)  improved motivation and work habits formed inschools and more readily
    transferred into real employment; and, (iii)from the acquisition o f new, flexible problem-solving and
    team-working skills.

    Russian teachers and educational administrators benefit by leaming new, more appropriate (in a
    modem social and economic climate) ways o f teaching, using learning materials that require that they
    engage students in more active ways o f learning; and by collecting and using educational data more
    efficiently.

    Teachers will have access to easier methods o fpreparing materials.

    Connectivity will be improved for communities and schools inparticipating regions.

    The Russian software industry will benefit by opening up new domestic (and potentially intemational)
    markets.

    The community based approach to resource center creation and operation will benefit communities by
    increasing the possibility for better communication andnetworking, enabling industryparticipation and
    encouraging lifelong leaming.

    The use o f computer-based courseware and distance delivery methods will benefit students inremote
    areas, particularly disabled students and students from poorer families.

Regional Selection Criteria

The MOE created a commission to evaluate the forty applications to participate in the project that were
received from the regions o f the Russian Federation. The following criteria, developed in cooperation with
the Bank, were used: (i) existence o f political, economic and social capital, including capacity to
                            the
implement the project; (ii)a declared willingness to modemize the education system; (iii)minimum
financial, technical and humanresource capacities; (iv) a specified level o f development and use of ICT,
including the availability o f adequate telecommunication infrastructure; and (v) financial stability and
ability to regulate interbudgetary financial flows. It is important to note that the objective o f these criteria
was not to facilitate the choice o f advanced regions but rather to select those regions where good outcomes
mightbe expected for dissemination duringthe nextphase o fthe program.

Using these criteria, the following pilot regions, each representing one of the seven Federal districts of
Russian federation ,were selected: Khabarovsk Krai, Krasnoyarsk Krai, Karelia Republic, Perm Oblast,
Stavropol Krai; Kaluga Oblast, and Chelyabinsk Oblast.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
As the purpose o fthe Project is to assist the education modernizationprogram o fthe Government o fRussia
(GOR), and with the orientation ofthe educational system to the global information society inline with the
GOR's e-Russia and e-Education Programs, the Project will be managed and coordinated at the Federal
level.

The project will be managed by the existing MOE Strategic Management Committee composed o f Federal
Ministry officials and senior education managers from the participating Regions. Federal representatives
will, inter alia, be drawn from the Ministries o f Education, Economy, and Finance, as well as from the



                                                    -  16-

broader professional community. At Regional level, representatives will be Ministers andor Heads o f
Education Administration inparticipating Regions as well as members o f the professional community. The
Strategic Management Committee will coordinate and link GOR's e-Russia and e-Education Programs
among all stakeholders. Its main functions include substantive project management as well as budget
allocation o f financial resources among project components and overall control o f project implementation
andproject final outcomes.

At pre-appraisal, the National Training Foundation (NTF) was selected in a competitive tender to
coordinate and implement the project on behalf o f the MOE Strategic Management Committee. The NTF
was established in 1994 to act as Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Management and Financial
Training Project (MFTP; 1995-2000). In 1996, given its project implementation experience, the NTF was
selected by the Government to be the implementing agency for the Education Innovation Project
(1997-2004) and the Education Reform Project (2002-2006).           Subsequently, the NTF was completely
restructured to reflect its growing focus on education reform. NTFpersonnel are therefore fblly conversant
with both World Bank and the Russian Federation's regulations and procedures. Management skills and
practices in the NTF have strengthened over time. For each o f the financial years the NTF has received
unqualified audit reports. The NTF has an established operational manual that has been approved by the
Bank and adopted by its Board o f Directors.

Project management will be based on an implementation agreement signed between the Ministries o f
Finance and Education o f the Russian Federation.       The PIU will handle, on behalf o f the MOE, all
procurement for the Project in accordance with World Bank procedures, sign contracts for goods, works
and services regardless o f who will be the recipients. The PIU will disburse project funds in accordance
with the Loan Agreement provisions and categories within approved budget for each financial year,
maintain books o f accounts and accounting records inconformity with World Bank's rules and procedures,
and the Russian Federation's legislation. The disbursement o f the IBRD funds will be through transaction
based Bank procedures, which include SA, SOE, direct payments, Letter o f Credit, guarantees. The federal
funds will be disbursed through co-finance account manageable by NTF (PIU). Local authorities
contribution will include benefits-in-kind, which will be spent by local authorities directly and cash
contribution, which will be processed through NTF bank accounts and local authorities' accounts. The
organizational structure o f NTF (the PIU) complies with all World Bank project implementation
procedures. In addition, it will build in conditions for the efficient achievement o f Project objectives at
Federal andRegional levels.

A Project Expert committee will be established by the PIUinorder to provide the substantial evaluation o f
educational projects under implementation, including project materials expertise and the development o f
recommendations and proposals for the Ministry o f Education Strategic Committee. Project coordination
committees will be established inproject regions to ensure effective implementation.

As there is some private sector capacity in the area o f e-leaming, e-learning materials development and
dissemination will be carried out by both private andpublic institutions. However, teacher training will be
done mostly by public institutions because there is a lack o f any other capacity inthe regions. The resource
centers will be established inschools and other educational institutions at municipal level.

Project fmancing will come from three sources: IBRD, federal fmancing and local fmancing. The Ministry
o f Education, Ministry of Finance and PTU will coordinate this expenditure. IBRD disbursement will be
made on a transaction basis and will include SA replenishment, SOE procedures, direct payments, letters o f
credits, and the Bank guarantees. There will be no FMR- based disbursement. Federal co-financing will
include the payment of federal taxes and other payments to the federal budget as well as co-fmancing o f the


                                                    - 17-

project itself. The federal contribution will be made through a PIU managed bank federal co-financing
account. The regional financing will include benefits-in-kind and cash contributions. The Ministry o f
Education together with the P I U will coordinate the benefits-in-hnd regional spending. Cash regional
contributions will pass through PIUmanagedbankregional co-financing accounts.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
N o project alternative: This alternative considers the situation that would exist if the Bank didnot finance
a project. The strategic choice to support the e-Russia and e-education programs was made based on a
careful analysis of possible ways to support Russian education to achieve greater equity and relevance of
the education outcomes for the demands o f the "new economy". The MOE is currently not able to lever
enough resources or expertise to do this job on their own without the assistance o f the Bank as substantial
financing is required to build capacity for the development of teaching staff and managers, through the
creation o f service centers andthrough the preparation o f teaching and learning materials without which the
investment in computers will be, at best, underutilized. Preliminary results from the social assessments
indicate that in some rural schools, computers are lying idle. Therefore, without the project, schools would
have computers but no teachers who have been trained how to introduce ICT into classrooms, no access to
ICT-enhanced educational opportunities and teaching practices, and none o f the materials that students,
teachers and managers need to participate actively in a knowledge economy. In addition, without the
project, Russia would not benefit from continuous international technical assistance in this rapidly
changing domain. Moreover, a well-monitored Russian program will have much to contribute to
international experience.

Therefore, the decision o f the Bank team was to ensure that appropriate teaching and learning materials
would be developed inthis project as, if used effectively, ICT can be the best route to transform teaching
and learning. The strong equity focus of the project will ensure that more children will have access to
modemeducational services andbetter andmore relevant education materials.

Project design: Several altematives to the proposed project design were discussed with the Government
during the course of project preparation. A traditional investment operation (SIL) was a possible option.
However, the Government has a preference for an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) as it would address the
long term goals of the Government strategy for the sector. The Bank agrees that the APL will allow for
greater flexibility and will provide a framework within which the innovations introduced inPhase One of
the program can be developed andthen modified, expanded and disseminated inPhase Two.

Financial Flows: Together, the MOE and the project team decided that there should be no on-lending in
this project. The issues o f sub-loans to regions inRussia has provedvery difficult because o fthe unsettled
nature o f federal-region tax and loan arrangements. This i s the reason that the otherwise successful and
satisfactory Education Reform Project experienced implementation difficulties. Instead, the MOE has
developed a financing scheme that would use loan funds, administered centrally, to support the
implementation of the Federal programs at regional level.




                                                    -18-

2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                  Latest SI iervision
              Sector Issue                             Project                      PSR)     atings
                                                                             (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                             Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                                Progress(IP)   Objective (DO)

 Textbook Quality                        Education Innovation Project              S                S
 HigherEducationReform                   Education Innovation Project              S                S
 Education Financing Reform              Education Reform Project                  S                S
 Vocational EducationReform              Education Reform Project                  S                S
 Regional FinancingIssues                RegionalFiscal TA and Loan
 Education Infrastructure intwo          Community Social                          S                S
 Regions                                 Infrastructure Project
 Other development agencies
 EuropeanTraining Foundation, in         Reform o fVocational
 cooperation with the Dutch, Finnish,    EducationinN.W. Russia
 Austrian andother Governments            (dissemination phase)
 EuropeanUnion (TACIS)                   DelphiProject on Educational
                                         Management Reform; Distance
                                         Education andVocational
                                         Education Reform (ongoing)
 Open Society Institute (Soros           Training andCapacity Building
 Foundation)                              for Regional Administrators anc
                                          educational professionals in 8
                                         regions o fRussian Federation
                                          (ongoing)
 BritishCouncil                          Educational Management
                                         Vocational Education
                                         New systems o f Qualifications
                                         inEducation(allongoing)
                                                              -    -
I                                        I
IP/DORatings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory),t (HighlyUnsatis

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the projectdesign:

Two sector studies provide guidance to the policy content o f this project. The report, Reforming Education
in the Regions of Russia (1999) focuses on issues of general and vocational education reform at regional
level. The e-Learning Policies to transform Russian schools report provides guidance on ICT related
issues. Both of these reports are complemented by several social assessments conducted during project
preparation.

Lessonslearned from previous Bank financed projects inthe education sector in Russia have been factored
into the designofthis project:

Development of new learning materials     -role  of grass-roots innovations and competition. Workshops
and seminars that were held within Russia to ensure that the best international and national thinking was



                                                   - 19-

incorporated into the design all produced the same lessons: that it is more important to focus on training
and leamingmaterials than on hardware. The first Bank financed education project in Russia - Education
Innovation Project (EIP) - included support for the creation o f new textbooks and other curriculum
materials. A scheme of grants competition for textbook development was developed andtested in EIP; this
scheme can be applied to the development o f e-leaming materials inthe e-Leaming Support Project.. Also
the experience o f EIP suggests that consultations with teachers' and schools and support o f their initiatives
are critical for the effective use o fmaterials developed.

Development of learning materialsfor IVE         -necessityforsystemic change. The second Bank education
loan - Education Reform Project (ERP) - supports the development o f new curriculum for IVE. The
lessons from the preparation process and from the initial stages o f ERP suggests that there are no
vocational education curriculum frameworks available to be supported by new e-leaming materials. So the
development o f e-leaming materials should go along with the curriculum frameworks' development.

Teacher training     -  learning by doing. The ERP also provides the lesson that current teacher training
institutions in Russia tend to focus on formal transmission o f knowledge rather than on changing practice.
The proposed project envisages such a difficulty and includes the development o f "leaming by doing"
teacher professional development programs focused on changing the practice by use o f ICT.

Examples o f I C T programs in other countries, including South Africa, Australia, the United States, were
especially useful for the project development team. One lesson that emerged everywhere is the important o f
changing the mindset. Intemational experience inthe introduction o f new teaching and leaming practices
demonstrates the importance o f concentrating on the teaching profession as a catalyst for change. Hence the
proposed project design focuses on this critical intervention.

Specific lessons were usedfrom thefollowing countries:

Estonia:
Estonia's very successful Tiger Leap Project has the following key lessons from the introduction o f I C T
into schools countrywide: (i)simple and easily understood approaches work best; (ii)             invest in training a
team o f leaders with a shared strategic vision; (iii)  demonstrate ICT- enhanced educational processes to
teachers and educational managers; (iv) teachers need ongoing methodological support after they receive
training .

Finland:
Finnish education policy for ICT lays emphasis on: (i) importance o f investment in technology
                                                              the
(computers and telecom infrastructure) together with the development o f relevant educational content and
teacher training programs; (ii)C T as an instrument to assist leaming and teaching; (iii) need to train
                                  I                                                                the
teachers to embed ICT into daily pedagogical practice; (iv) pedagogical approaches andeducational content
that are created in schools with all new teaching and learning materials tested in pilot schools before wide
dissemination; (v) I C T inschools to solve specific educational and a h i s t r a t i v e problems.

Lessonsfrom Bankfinanced projects in other countries:

Chile: Life Long Learning and Training Project: (i)the project should have clear and understandable
goals; (ii) the development o f the legal and regulatory framework is a priority; (iii)the development of
leadership in school and training o f center directors is very important; (iv) and grass roots support is
essential through empowerment o f schools andtraining centers to implement their own projects.




                                                      - 20 -

Turkey: Basic Education Project: (i)      resource center computer equipment should be available to teachers
for preparation and research and, most importantly, for instruction; (ii)curriculum software needs to
exploit the multimedia capabilities of the computer and, where possible, enable teachers and students to
create their own multimedia documents; (iii)       ICT training programs for teachers need to be focused on the
pedagogical use o f ICT and should be developed in a modular fashion to enable teachers and students to
learn critical ICT shlls on a need-to-leam basis; (iv) the most progressive schools in utilizing the ICT
capacities (IT labs) are led by principals who understand the program and give it their full support; (v)
greater focus on administrator training (both at school and provincial level) must occur in order to help
educational leaders to maximize the educational use o f the I C T capacities (IT labs); (vi) there is an inherent
risk o f cancellation o f in-service teacher training activities by the regions due to per diem andtravel costs.

The      World Links for        Development Program highlights the               importance o f a competitive
telecommunications infrastructure and of ongoing technical support andmaintenance

LendingInstrument

Inthe discussion of the lendmg instrument, the team has been guided by the lessons of experience of the
third review o f experience of Adaptable Lending (September, 2002). This review suggests some good
practices for APL development which have been helpful during project appraisal. Inparticular, this project
takes into account the need to have specific triggers that are strategically selected and focused on essential
policy and are precise andmonitorable. The triggers are adaptable and capable o f implementation andwill
act as benchmarks to guide judgments.

As discussed above, experience with sub-lending inRussia has not been positive. Therefore, this project
does not propose a loan that would on-lend directly to the regions. Instead, the MOE has developed a
financing scheme that would use loan funds to support the implementation o f the Federal programs at
regional level. The participating regions would be the beneficiaries o f the activities to be financed by the
Bankloan. Co-financing from the Regions wouldbe inthe form o fpayment o ftaxes andcustoms duties on
equipment as well as through an increasing contribution to the operating costs o f the Resource Centers and
some contributions inkind, i.e. additional incentives for education workers and traveling expenses.

4. Indications of borrower commitment andownership:

There has been excellent, continuous dialogue between the Bank and the Russian Ministry o f Education
(MOE) over the course o f the last 7-8 years. Boththe sector analytical work andlending operations to date
have been used by the Borrower inthe preparation o f its modernization program. The Russian Government
has requestedBank assistance both intellectual and financial to assist with the modernization program. For
this project it i s envisaged that the Bank will continue to work with the same core MOEteam who prepared
f r s t two projects. This continuity has built trust and commitment on both sides and has also fostered
considerable ownershp o f the projects in the MOE. Furthermore, the preparation o f the Education Reform
Project (2001) benefited from the input o f many members o f the educational community and also from the
involvement o f Regional administrators, teachers and communities in three regions. A further clear
indication o f the borrower commitment to this particular project is the fact that the MOE contributed
significant funds towards the analytical work as part o f project preparation and, in December 2002,
established a coordination council to ensure effective coordination between the GOR e-Education initiative
and the proposedproject.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

During the preparation o f the sector study on the use o f ICT in Russianeducation as well as during the


                                                        -21 -

preparation o f the project, the Bank has provided the Russian Government with international experience
and best practice in the use o f ICT in general and vocational education systems. The technical dialogue
with both intemational and national experts has been fruitful and has ensured that Russia has been the
recipient o f the best state o f the art experience at this critical moment. One outcome o f this may well be that
Russia will be able to avoid some o f the costly mistakes that other countries have made inearly investments
inICT. At the invitationofthe Bank, other donors have also contributed to the dialogue duringpreparation
workshops. (e.g. EU; OSI; Govemment o f Finland and British Council). The Bank is probably the only
international organization with sufficient resources to finance this wide ranging intemational expertise
during project preparation as well as with the large amount of investment foreseen in the timeframe
envisaged.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit           NPV=US$million; ERR= YO(see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specie)
Since the ambition o f the project is to help to change the comparative advantage o f the Russian economy
(see below), use o f formal cost/ benefit analysis (a partial-equilibrium technique) is impossible. However,
cost/ benefit i s the appropriate qualitative framework within which to assess the project. Cost/ benefit
analysis o f any project must be based on a comparison o f the with-project and without-project situation. In
this respect it should be notedthat this project is not concernedwith puttingcomputers into schools: this is
already happening, as part o f a prior government program. Thus the without-project situation may be one
of schools with computers but without teachers who have been trained how to introduce I C T into
classrooms, without access to ICT-enhanced educational opportunities and teaching practices, and without
the materials that students, teachers and managers need to participate actively in a knowledge economy.
There is no evidence that such an approach to I C T would have any positive leaming or labor-market
outcomes. The with-project situation will be one o f schools with computers but also with the teachers,
practices andmaterials needed to use them effectively. Caution is inorder in assessing the likely benefits of
an investment o f this kind, but it is equally dangerous to take too static an approach to analysis.

As far as leaming outcomes are concerned, evidence from recent intemational tests at lower-secondary
level suggests that Russia's academic standards are being maintained in areas o f traditional strength
(TIMSS), but that its students are less able (relative to their OECD counterparts) to use their knowledge
and skills in order to meet real-life challenges (PISA). Russian students also put more emphasis on
memorization and less on cooperative learning than do OECD students on average. The thrust o f the
project is to support a shift in learning strategies and outcomes from those which generate old skills (rote
leaming, use o f invariant sources, working alone, routine and unchanging modes o f operation) to those
which generate new skills (problem-solving, critical use o f diverse sources, collaboration and teamwork,
flexible and self-correcting modes o f operation). The underlying assumption is that the use of I C T in
teaching, while not automatically causing such a shift, will strongly support a move by teachers in this
drection. Some teachers can and will work inthese ways without ICT, but it will be difficult andthey will
have trouble explaining to their peers how they do it. With ICT, both the process o f teaching this way, and
the process o f explaining it to peer teachers, become immensely easier. This may be the only way o f
achieving such a shift inRussia within a reasonable time period.

Such a shift inteaching and learning strategies can be expected to have a positive impact on labor-market
performance. International evidence suggests that people with these skills (broadly correspondmg to the
'literacy' skills tested by PISA) are more likely to get highly shlled jobs regardless o f the level of their


                                                         - 22 -

education. More dynamically, improvement in such skills will affect the comparative advantage o f the
Russianeconomy -helping to shift it from natural resources and unskilled labor to high-technology skills.
The starting point for tlus shift is promising, including: the continued high quality o f mathematics and
science education; the compressed distribution o f wages by level o f education, with university graduates
earning less than twice as much, on average, as those with elementary education; and the low wages (in
dollars) o f Russian ICT specialists compared with their counterparts in competitor countries. Russia is,
thus, ina good position to 'leapfrog' into new, internationally competitive ICT-based and other skill-based
sectors. And the project itself will generate demand for the services and products o f the ICT sector. The
project will also pay attention to the distribution o f benefits, through: the use o f distance education to
guarantee delivery o f the curriculum to all including small, remote schools and disabled children; a
reduction inthe educational disadvantage o f children from poorer families without a computer at home; and
an improvement inthe digital literacy o f girls (who already outperform boys inreading, mathematical and
scientific literacy).

Incomparisonwiththese potential benefits, the government will spendthe equivalent ofabout $145 million
duringthe project, ofwhich $100 millionwill be loan-funded and $21 million co-financed (other thanby
tax remission). Replication o fthe project throughout the federation would probably cost a further $1,128
million. Most o fthese costs can be seen as the initial, development costs o f ensuring ICT competence
among teachers, but costs are likely to fall over time andthe opportunity for cost recovery from the private
sector is likely to increase. Resource Centers will be ina good position to diversify their sources o f income.
And centrally organizedteacher training programs will yield economies o fscale. Inso far as distance
education substitutes for boarding schools andenables remote rural schools to economize on specialist
teachers, it should contribute to a reductioninunit costs. Offsettingthese savings will be the additional
runningcosts generated bythe shift to ICT-based teaching discussed inthe next section.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= YO(see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:

The activities proposed by the project will have fiscal implications for the federal and regional
governments, both during and after the project period. Part o f the cost o f the project (31 per cent) will be
co-financed by the federal and regional governments. The bulk o f the co-financing will take the form o f
remission o f taxes and duties on goods and services purchased for the project, and thus will have only
notional implications for government budgets. Cash co-financing expenditures, almost all by the federal
government and mainly for new-generation learning materials, will amount to less than $1.8 million, and
regional governments will contribute a further $19.4 million inkind, inthe form o f equipment and network
connections for Resource Centers. Inaddition, the recurrent costs o f the Centers will be partially funded by
regional governments, but at a cost o f less than 0.4 per cent of their education budgets.

Ifthere is no second phase of the project, the entire costs of runningthe program inthe seven project
regions (including in-school costs which will begin to be incurred) will fall on the regional governments
from 2007 onwards. Inaddition, if the federal government decides to replicate the program throughout the
country, the costs of dissemination and running the program in other regions will also fall on government.
Costs o f running the program in the seven project regions will include: the recurrent costs o f Resource
Centers, at an average annual cost per region o f around $1.2 million; and continued teacher and
management training), averaging per region around $0.4 million per year. In addition, in-school costs will
begin to be incurred as the program becomes hlly operational in the project regions, including the



                                                     - 23 -

following non-salary costs (roughly estimated at $5.1 million or more per region): increased cost o f
maintenance and repair o f hardware; more frequent upgrading and replacement o f hardware; increased
software costs; increased costs o f paper, printer cartridges, disks etc.; and increased intemet traffic. The
total cost per region o f running the program in the seven regions after the project ends may amount to at
least $7.6 million, or 6 per cent or more o f the average 2001 education budget for these regions. The costs
o f replicating the project in the other regions o f the federation can be roughly estimated from the project
cost table at around $13% million per region. For the 82 regions not included inthe project, this adds up to
$1,128 million over 42 months (3.5 years) - less than 5 per cent o f the total educational budget for these
regions. In addition, in-school non-salary costs o f 4 per cent or more o f the educational budget would be
generated.

Additional expenditures arising from the project will not necessarily have to be financed entirely from the
federal and lower-level government budgets, but the bulk o f the burden o f financing non-salary
project-related costs would fall on them, which means that there is likely to be little scope for any increase
inthe proportion o f such budgets available for salaries - around 40 per cent in2000. Given the project's
aims to upgrade and 'digitalize' the teaching profession and recruit new categories o f staff, this poses some
risk.    Although the project's programs o f professional development will improve incentives, existing
salaries (inrelation to the national average) are unlikely to be enough to attract a n d or retain people who
have acquired such marketable skills.

An increase in all teachers' salaries is in any case needed to deal with low morale and the demographic
distortions withinthe profession. Projections to 2006 suggest that some increase insalaries will be possible
(particularly if the number o f teachers falls with the number o f children), but that it may not be enough,
given the likely rise in wages in other sectors, to attract and retain those who are able to use ICT in the
preparation and interactive deployment o f teaching and leaming materials. Throughout the economy, the
salary premium for computer use at work ranges from 40 to 89 per cent for those with an education level
comparable to that o f teachers. As computer skills spread, this premium may fall, but it still suggests a
need to explore alternative non-budget sources o f funding for the current costs associated with new
activities resulting from the project, new ICT-related expenses in schools, and teacher incentives. These
might include project development grants, contributions from corporations, communities and individuals,
receipt o f fees by teachers for training others and for the development and sale o f materials. Inparticular,
flexible ways o f attracting andretaining staff with new skills need to be worked out at the local level.

3. Technical:
The project has been designed to take into account the specifics o f the Russian situation in general
education, IVE,and employment. While the changes proposed are major, and will require significant efforts
from all those involved (teachers, educational administrators, developers o f educational materials, regional
and federal educational officials, parents, etc.), project preparation has emphasized linkages to and
extensions o f existing Russian capacities, standards, traditions, and practices. Inparticular, the following
features o f the project design are o f note:

Teacher andpedagogy relatedfeatures

-  The work to refocus teaching on a constructivist approach derives from and reflects psychological
theories developed by Russian psychologist Lev Vygotsky and already somewhat known in Russia under
the rubric o f "Developmental Teaching" [razvivaiushchee obuchenie]). The underlying familiarity and
attractiveness o f Vygotsky's ideas to Russia's teachers make it quite probable that they will welcome
enhancements to their work based on this approach.




                                                      - 24 -

- Existing experience working with Russian teachers shows they have a real willingness and interest to
grapple with new pedagogical approaches when these have a strong theoretical base and a well-worked out
methodological infrastructure. The efforts reflected in the project design to create p o w e f i l sets o f
appropriate teacher training materials should provide this sort o f incentive for active involvement on the
parts o f teachers.

- The improvement o f Russian capacity in e-materials design builds on an existing significant tradition o f
thinking deeply about how to create e-materials for education. While markedby some strong successes in
the past (e.g., the Robotlandia software environment o f the late 1980s), this experience was never widely
replicated within Russia nor did it connect to broader international developments and emerging standards.
The efforts in this project to extend instructional design capacity to more parts o f Russia, inways that are
linked directly to international experience in this field, and the efforts to spur the growth o f the local
e-materials industry, all therefore represent extensions o f strong existing Russian experience.

- The  targeting o fthis sort o f large-scale change effort at the schools is not completely foreign inthe history
o f Russian education. Earlier broad efforts in the immediate post-Soviet period to enlist broad public
support for educational change were quite successful, and showed a very strong public willingness to
support such changes when the case for them was clearly made and connected with real perceived needs o f
the populace. Linking this project to broad efforts at economic transformation, and explicitly including in it
a public information component, should make the proposed changes palatable to the Russian populace at
large.

- Existing international experience in training and re-training educators to implement an ICT-based
constructivist instructional model in schools suggests that such training must have a number o f key
features:

          Teacher educators (both those who work in initial teacher training institutions and those who
          provide continuing professional development [in-service]) must leam how to present their own
          lessons inthese ways and must become comfortable requiring their students (future or practicing
          teachers) to leam and demonstrate these new approaches. The needs o f teacher educators are
          addressed through the project design in ways calculated to develop and strengthen these
          perspectives over time.
          Future teachers must learn about these approaches intheir training programs, they must be given
          ample opportunities to experiment and practice with them, they must encounter them in their
          practical ("student teaching") experiences, and their final assessment (the exam or process that
          determines whether they finally receive a teaching certificate or license) must measure the extent to
          which they can work in these new ways. The project proposes a structure for designing and
          infusing these sorts o f experiences into the work o f initial teacher training institutions.

- Currently practicing teachers must be given frequent, intensive, and extensive opportunities to see and
practice these new approaches, they must have the chance to work with peers from their own schools on
changes in curriculum, instructional practice, and assessment techniques to bring them into line with new
expectations, they must have easily available and consistent technical support from specialists who can
address both technical and pedagogical aspects o f these new ways o f working, and they must receive
regular and consistent messages from administrators that these new approaches are important, desirable,
necessary, andrequired. The project provides these sorts o f opportunities for teachers to develop the needed
skills, and supports them through a multiple team approach (school and subject-matter teams). In this
context it i s important to note that, untilvery recently, Russian teachers weren't given the sorts o f training
in "curriculum design" that would enable them to deal easily with the demands that assembling curriculum


                                                        - 25 -

out o f a large collection o f discrete materials entails. The teacher training materials that are to be prepared
inthisproject may make those activities easier for teachers, butit will also require support from regional
ed. authorities and pedagogical training institutions.

- Administrators    at all levels must provide intellectual and material support for teachers working in these
new ways (which means that the administrators themselves mustunderstand them andbe committed to their
implementation), they must arrange opportunities for teachers to learn about them and provide needed
support (time o f f from teaching, time to work with peers, and environments to carry out the work - space,
hardware, materials, etc.) The project provides important support for meeting the needs o f this key group
through extended orientation and training sessions.

- Finally, parents and community members must develop their understandings about teaching and leaming
so that they can also support these new approaches, they mustbe willing to have children educated inthese
ways, they must accept the new kinds o f assessments that are generated o f children's work, and they must
support children's working in school with materials and towards goals that are printed in these new
directions. The project assures that these new approaches will be widely publicized in the regional and
nationalpedagogical press and other major media.

Technical resource developmentrelatedfeatures

- The  project will establish a technical foundation from which various systemic and pedagogical objectives
can be reached. The key requirements for achieving systemic change are supported within the project
design; 1) providing in-service training to the existing teaching workforce, 2) promoting adjustment to the
teacher training programs o f pedagogical institutions and 3) stimulating the generation o f leaming objects
and products.

- The Russian educators consulted during project development have shown an inclination to promote the
development o f collections o f "learning objects" as opposed to emphasizing the development o f technically
complex "interactive teaching and learning products". They have recognized and accepted the need to adopt
instructional design approaches to ensure that all digital educational materials they produce have high
levels o ftechnical andpedagogical utility.

- At one level it may appear that the inclination to produce large numbers o f "leaming objects" may fail to
seize on opportunities to use the communications capabilities o f new technologies. However, the Russian
telecommunications system, like those in almost every large country in the world, does not uniformly
provide high-bandwidth to all geographic locations. Just as it is true in the U S A or Australia, there are
schools inisolatedregions who cannot expect high-speed data connections through the current generation o f
technology. Consequently, it is reasonable to accept that the strategy o f delivering digital copies o f
"learning objects" for teachers to use in a classroom or school context is a prudent one. Another aspect o f
this approach is that it provides the widest possible discretion for individual teacher judgment inrelation to
the selection or sequencing o f learning pathways. Inother words, this approach is arguably more attuned to
constructivist approaches than one which relies on "interactive teaching and learning products" which tend
to offer prescribed leaming pathways.

- Inevitably, as telecommunication capacities improve andas demand for education andtraining needs to be
more diverse and responsive to economic change (particularly in areas o f vocational and continuing
education), the importance o f technologies and sophisticated "interactive teaching and learning products''
will increase. It is arguable that the approach which Russian educators seem to prefer is one that could
minimize the risk of wasteful investment in sophisticated products which do not deliver a retum on


                                                        - 26 -

investment. International experience is increasingly questioning the value o f investing in high-cost
"interactive teaching and learning products", particularly in settings where curriculum content is changing
rapidly as driven by knowledge economy factors and where the state o f market readiness (by teachers,
students andor telecommunications infrastructure) is low.

- Russia seems particularly well positioned to legislate and regulate to ensure that intellectual and artistic
assets created during the state-managed periods until the 1990s are made accessible for educational
purposes. This is a clear distinction from other modem economies where intellectual property and copyright
issues are much more complex. Consequently it is arguable that Russia could avoid many o f the factors
that inhibit and add to the costs o f creating digital teaching and learning resources inother nations.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:

The executing agency will be the MOE through the National Training Foundation (NTF). The NTF has
experience in managing two other Education projects. The MOE has gained considerable experience by
working with the Bank, through ongoing policy dlalogue, contribution to and dissemination o f sector work,
implementation o f the Education Innovation Project (EIP), and the ongoing Education Reform Project
(ERP).The MOEhas also assumed a proactive role insupervising the managemento fthe NTF.

The Government has created a Steering Committee to oversee the preparation and subsequent strategic
management o f the proposed project. This Committee is composed o f senior members o f MOE staff as well
as senior staff from regional education administrations and from core Federal Ministries ( Economy and
Finance) andmembers o f the education professional community.

4.2 Project management:

In2001, the NTFwas restructured inorder to manage the EducationReform Project. This has enhanced its
effectiveness as a PIU, andhelped to increase its focus on education. The presence o f an Inter-Ministerial
Strategic Committee andthe development o f an NTF Operational Manual will also facilitate goodproject
management. Regional coordination committees will be created inall participating regions, consisting o f
representatives o f the professional andbusiness communities and o f the regional authorities.

4.3 Procurement issues:

The procurement assessment o f the NTF was conducted in January 2003. This project i s the fourth IBRD
project being preparedimplemented by the NTF. Two o f these projects are currently effective.
Consequently, it may be necessary to hire 1-2 additional procurement specialists.

A considerable number of assignments under the project (adding up to an estimated USD 42 million)
concem subjects which require unique qualifications and experience. OAen, private sector expertise in this
field is not well developed due to its low profitability. Consequently, public education research institutes
and educational establishments, subordinate or reporting to the Ministry of Education, regional and
municipal educational administrations, as well as certain other entities financed from federal, regional or
municipal budgets, are the only entities to possess the required unique qualifications and experience..
Duringproject preparation, certain types of assignments were identified which could only be competently
executed by govemment-owned entities. Thus, the barring o f govemment-owned entities from participation
in the project could lead to a serious decrease in the quality o f the Project implementation and could
threaten the achievement of the Project objectives (see Annex 6).



                                                        - 27 -

Consultants for these assignments would be selected under the QBS or CQS methods. Short lists will be
composed on the basis o f expressions o f interest submitted as a result o f GPN as well as SPNs for each
such assignment in the national press and, for assignments above the threshold specified in the Loan
Agreement, in the UNDB. Since quality o f services will be paramount and price will not be a factor for
evaluation, short lists may comprise both private and government-owned enterprises. Injustifiable cases,
single source selection will be used.

The organizations deemed most suitable for implementing these assignments are scientific and research
institutes, higher pedagogical establishments, professional educational establishments at all levels, teacher
training and retraining establishments, state unitary educational organizations, state electronic materials
and cinema production organizations, state publishers, institutions o f culture (museums), general schools
and initial vocational schools, extra-curricula children centers, municipal interschool and methodological
centers.

4.4 Financial management issues:

The financial management arrangements for the E-Leaming Support Project meet the Bank minimum
requirements.

The Financial Management assessment o f the financial arrangements o f the NTF as an Entity and for the
e-Learning Support Project was carried out and completed between November 2002 - March 2003. The
NTF has well-developed intemal control procedures and accounting andreporting systems inplace. Project
fund flows include flows from IBRD, federal Govemment and local authorities. The internal policies
related to IBRD and federal funds are drafted by the NTF, whereas fund flows procedures from local
authorities are being developed. The        project will be staffed by the three existing NTF financial
management staff; one additional specialist will be hired. The NTF staff is experienced inBankprocedures.
The proposed FMRs includes: (a) a statement of sources and uses o f funds; (b) a detailed schedule for
tracking disbursements against specific categories o f disbursement; and (c) a physical output report. The
NTFwill submit quarterly FMRsandan annual audited FMRsto the Bank. Inaddition to the FMRs, the
NTF will submit annual audited EntityIFRS reporting. The disbursement o f IBRDfunds will be through
transaction based Bank procedures, which include SA, SOE, direct payments, Letter o f Credit, and
guarantees. Federal funds will be disbursed through a co-financed account managed by theNTF (PIU). The
local authorities' contributionwill include benefits-in-kind, which will be spent by local authorities directly,
and cash contribution, which will be processed through NTF bank accounts and local authorities' bank
accounts.

Taking into consideration the assessment o f the financial management systems and processes and the
assessment o f risks and mitigating measures, the financial management arrangements for the NTF as an
Entity and for the e-Leaming Support Project are considered capable o f satisfactorily recording all
transactions and balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding the entities' assets, and are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.

5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation (including
consultation anddisclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

It is not expected that the program would have any negative impact or that there are any significant
environmental issues to be considered. It would not finance the rehabilitation or construction o f schools
and only very limited refurbishment o f the buildings proposed for the Resource Centers is envisaged.
Hence, there would be no major civil works component inthe project.




                                                     - 28 -

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP andare they adequate?


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft:

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

A social assessmentwas carried out to inform project design. The social analysis revealedthe following:
.     Future generations of Russian students do not have skills to allow them to participate fully in the
      emerging world-wide knowledge economy.
.     There i s inequality and inequity inaccess (digital divide) in the regions o f the RussianFederation: (a)
      from a geographic perspective       --  rural-urban population; (b) between rich and poor schools and
      families; (c) between girls and boys; and (d) between students o f general education andIVE students.
.     Students inrural andremote areas are being denied access to new educational opportunities (such as
      augmentation of basic curriculum strands) because o f the absence o f trained teachers to deliver all
      compulsory subjects.
.     Regional, social and cultural peculiarities require that a good psychological basis for using ICT in
      education be ensured, as well as the use o f varied models for integrating ICT into education.
*     There are prevailing notions o f how public education should be imparted, and these do not now
      include either an image o f the value o f ICT use or a concept o f how resulting slulls could benefit
      individuals and society. Educators in Russia have not been expected to play an active role in the
      selection and evaluation o f learning materials, and so have been largely passive implementers of
      centrally developed curricula. Teachers will have to define a new role for themselves as professionals
      who are active pedagogical decision-makers.

Taking into consideration the social issues raised inthe social assessmentand bearing inmindthe need for
greater equity in the provision o f educational services, this Project seeks to build sustainable Russian
capacity to produce high quality, affordable and flexible learning materials and to empower teachers to
develop new skills in teaching practice with b e n e f i c i q students and educators over whole country.
Through the Project, new teaching and learning materials will be available for all students and teachers
throughout Russia. The project will also support distance education services for selected courses. The
materials will be prepared to address regional or local and cultural peculiarities (including access to
telecommunications infrastructure, pedagogical approaches in practice, etc.). Teachers will be trained to
embed ICT inteaching and learning practices andto use ICT to develop new skills. Communities will have
access to services provided by resource centers. Education management capacity will be developed to use
ICT-based management systems.




                                                        - 29 -

Identified social risks and how they will be addressed through Project implementation.

(1) There is no broad social consensus or common understanding about the role o f ICT and its value in
education. There is a risk that more conservative teachers andheadmasters or families will resist the use o f
ICT in schools. The project includes a specific sub-component to address these issues:sub-component 3.4
aims to develop public awareness and support to ensure professional public support for the Project and to
provide for extensive participation o f all relevant parties (students, parents, school councils, teachers,
businesspersons) inthe discussion and implementation o f Project activities.

2) The issue o f ICT use in education could be reduced to just solving narrow technical problems
(establishing and equipping resource centers, securing access to e-leaming materials, testing, etc.) and not
to deeper pedagogical issues raised by these new technologies.     .However,   the Project design goes further
than the merely technical.. The Project will support pre-service and in-service teacher training taking into
consideration differing professional orientations of teachers. Subject area teachers' participation will be
actively sought during Project implementation for both developing e-leaming materials as well as for
preparing teacher training materials. The important new psychological and pedagogical perspectives on
learning will underpin the development o f e-learning materials and training programs for educators.

(3) As schools are connected to the Intemet, there is the issue o f long-term sustainability because some
schools may not be able to afford ongoing Intemet connection charges. Schools with limited resources to
provide support functions and upgrade equipment may try to recover costs from parents which could
escalate a risk o f social tensions and conflicts between schools and families, rich and poor schools. The
problem may be greater for smaller than for larger schools which can take advantage o f economies o f scale.
Current funding mechanisms o f the Government o f Russia take into account the size o f schools and other
criteria in allocating funds. The funding for schools is expected to change in keeping with changes in
demand for school improvements.

(4) Project stakeholders mightnot have sufficient understanding o fmodern distance education practices and
this could lead to the inappropriate use o f e-learning materials as correspondence courses. The Project
addresses this issue by providing training for both teachers and administrators on the appropriate use o f e
-learning materials for modem distance education.

(5) As a result o f the project, the digital divide could be exacerbated rather than reduced; there could be
increases inparents' out-of-pocket expenses, increasing differences between urban and rural schools, and
attention only to areas that already are reasonably well served by the telecommunications industry. To
address these potential issues, the Project will ensure that resource centers are located ingeographically and
socio-economically strategic locations. Resource centers will be placed optimally so as to maximize their
overall utility and provide support to weak schools as well as advanced (for example by ensuring that
project-funded resource centers are appropriately placed vis-A-vis existing resource centers). The
transportation and telecommunications infrastructures are further factors which will influence the optimal
placement o f resource centers.

(6) There is a risk that trained teachers are likely to leave the education system to seek more lucrative
employment inthe private sector. To address this potential issue, the Project will create the environment for
supporting an employment premium for teachers through teachers being paid for consultancy work, with
either public or the private sector, and the attraction o f sponsorship from the private sector so that trained
teachers can augment their income without leaving the education system. Achieving this combination would
leadto the possibility o fputtingtogether a competitive package for trained teachers to remain ineducation.



                                                     - 30 -

Expected social development outcomes of the Project.

The Project aims to achieve the following social development outcomes:
        Ensure community access to resource centers (RCs)and their participation in the maintenance o f
the centers.
        Enable Russian students and teachers to participate more effectively in the economy by virtue o f
enhanced problem-solving skills, improved capacity to study independently and hence participate in
life-long leaming, ability to work with information, and ability to apply key skills inrealjob settings. The
project will support the creation o f new electronic/digital materials that will make it easier for teachers to
include in their teaching practice the development o f such skills and capacities, give students more
opportunities to practice them and allow teachers to work more flexibly.
        Help teachers to make the shift to a student-centered learning environment in which teachers play
more o f a learning facilitator role.
        Provide a curriculum guarantee for students, ensure that all students have access to quality
educational materials through e-learning, independent or distance leaming, and support conditions for equal
access to I C T with enhanced education services based on ICT.
        Develop teacher and education management capacity to: (a) use new generation teaching and
learning materials; (b) incorporate new educational technologies into teaching practice; (c) produce leaming
materials; and (d) use ICT-based management systems.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

The main stakeholder groups for the project will be teachers, education managers (both administrators
within the education system and policymakers), managers o f resource centers, developers o f learning
materials, teacher educators (both pre-service and in-service), students, and communities. During the
project design and preparation phase, stakeholders participated as members o f working groups to design
various components, participated in workshops, and in preparing implementation plans. The project has
been designed to promote continuing consultations with stakeholders for effective implementation. There
are two sub-components in the project devoted to strategic management development and building public
support. Through these sub-components on-going public communication and consultation will be provided.

6.3 H o w does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

The Project design involved consultations and collaboration with the Federation o f Internet Education, the
Open Society Institute o f the Soros Foundation inRussia, BritishCouncil, European Training Foundation
higher education institutions, and other public and private sector organizations.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

At the Federallevel there will be a steering committee comprised o f policymakers, regional representatives
from education departments, and regional experts. Inthe project implementation unit (PIU) there will be
expert committee comprised o f content specialists, designers o f educational materials, teacher trainers,
teachers, and regional resource center representatives. The composition o f the advisory committees at the
regional level will be decided upon by the PIUand regional authorities.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?

Social assessmentswill be carried during the end o f the Phase One (2007) o f the Project to measure project
performance in terms o f social development outcomes. Throughout the Project implementation period,
monitoring and evaluation will be undertaken by: (i)the Expert Committee o f the PIU for e-learning
materials development, teacher training, and the development of resource centers in the PIU, (ii)the



                                                    -31   -

Regional Departments o f Education; (iii) regional resource centers: and (iv) beneficiaries (school level
                                           the
management, parents, students). Teachers' attitudes toward changes ensuing from the project will also be
monitored inthe course o f the project implementation.

The proposed project is expected to have a powerful effect on small towns and communities by ensuring
linkages between individuals and institutions inremote parts o f Russia with a set o f concepts andresources
.that.existina  global framework.

7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are anv o f the following:"safemard oolicies trig:g:eredbv the oroiect?
                                  "                 ""
                                  Policy                                               Triggered
      Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                     3 Yes 0 No
      Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                             f-.    Yes 0 No
      Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                              n      Yes 0 No
      Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                n      Yes 0 No
      Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                            n      Yes 0 No
      IndigenousPeoples(OD4.20)                                                 ?     Yes 0 No
      Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                      ------
                                                                                ,-7   Yes 0 No
      Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                               Yes 0 No
      Projectsin International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)              0Yes 0No
      Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                    0Yes 0No

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

N/A




                                                    - 32 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

The sustainability o f the project has fiscal and institutional aspects. Fiscal sustainability depends on the
generation o f enough resources to fund the activities initiated by the project on an on-going basis. It is
discussed inmore detail in section E.2 above and in Annex 4. After the project, the Resource Centers may
either eventually fade away or become self-supporting. However, teacher training and retraining activities
and the higher in-school costs associated with the use o f ICT inteaching and learning will continue to need
funds, both inthe original project regions and in any other regions inwhich the project may be replicated.
The most challenging o f these costs is the additional remuneration needed to attract and retain
'new-generation' teachers and other ICT-related staff. Projections suggest that alternative, non-budget
sources of funding will need to be explored for these purposes at the local level.

Institutional sustainability depends primarilyon locating activities initiated by the project, and new centers
created by or in connection with the project, within structures that are appropriate and strong. For this
project, no new building is envisaged as the Federation has many under-utilized education buildings
available. The problem for sustainability is that the institutions that are strong tend to be inappropriate, and
vice versa, as Table 1shows.



  Institution          Strong?       Appropriate?                Note

  General schools       Inpart            Yes              . Some computers already provided; some connectivity.
                                                           .. Limited level of readiness.
                                                              Possiblemaintenanceand support problems.
  Initial vocational      No              Yes              . Lack of computers
  schools                                                  . Poor connectivity
                                                           . Generalfacilities lacking.
                                                           . Poor levelof readiness.
  Teacher training      Inpart   Yes for teacher training  ' Very conservative and somewhatresistant to change
  institution
                                  Possiblefor resource
                                         centers
  Other higher            Yes              No
  education                                                .. Have capturedbandwidth and facilities
                                                             Riskthat capacity will not beusedfor thebenefit GE
  institutions                                                and IVE stakeholders
  Educational           Inpart           Possibly          . Hubshave already beenset up insome regional
  administrations                                             administrations under the Education Innovations Project.


The locationof resource centers is particularly difficult: the criterion o f appropriateness suggests that they
should be as close to the community as possible but the technical strength of the universities andteacher
training colleges inthese fields cannot be denied. Protocols mustbe developed to ensure that the purpose
and functions of the resource centers remain totally focused on project outcome targets -general education
and initial vocational education. Also crucial for sustainability is the development o f a national strategic
planning process.




                                                     - 33 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                    Risk                          Risk Rating      I           Risk MitigationMeasure
From Outputs to Objective
Current implementation agencies do not                  M           Project Steering Committee will monitor
zooperate to eliminate duplication and                              coordination between different agencies
divergent directions
New/amended standards for schools,                      H           Support for curriculum development will be
initial vocational (especially new                                  provided within the Education ReformProject
professions) andteacher training
zurriculum (pre- and in-service) are
not inplace for courses requiring ICT
skills and core skills development.
Legal and Regulatory barriers remain higl               M           MinistryofEducationis committedto the
                                                                    Education Modernizationprogram and
                                                                    continues to press for the development o f
                                                                    regulatory documents by responsible
                                                                    stakeholders.
hcreased skills inuse of I C T could result             H           Incentives will be made available by
inloss ofyounger andmore flexible                                   participating Regions
teachers as they become more attractive tc
private enterprise

Resource centers do not provide equal                               Management guidelines ensure all students have
access for all students, including those                            access to resource centers.
from Initial Vocational Education
From Components to Outputs
Growing inequity inaccess: Distribution                 M           MinistryofEducation programtargets regions
o f ICT resources among different regions                           and groups most at risk
andsocial groups is tending to create
internal "digital divide".
Benefits of ICT and constructivist                      M           The teacher training materials that are to be
approach are not immediately apparent to                            prepared inthis project will make the benefits of
Russianeducational community                                        this approach clear. Support from regional
                                                                    educational authorities and pedagogical training
                                                                    institutions will also be ensured.
A maintenance and supplies budget to                    M           This will be aprior condition agreed between
operate the RRCs will not be available or                           MOE and each participating region.
ongoing
Overall Risk Rating                                     M
?isk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri: , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:


One area of potential controversy is that of teachers' salaries. Everyone agrees that the salaries o f all
teachers are unacceptably low. Incurrent economic conditions, some improvement can be expected in their
average level, but this i s unlikely to be enough to retain and attract those with ICT skills. Some additional



                                                      - 34 -

remunerationfor teachers with these skills (Iiowever financed) will be necesw. This,may cause ill-feeling
within the profession,particularlyifyounger teachers benefit disprdpoilionatelyfrom suchprernia.

The use of the Internetinan educational contextanda generalmovement towards a moreflexible
curriculum Framework inRussiamay bothgo against the traditionalteaching ethos. Also health concems
about excessivework on computers have not been laid to rest in morenaditional communities.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A ProjectImplementationAgreement, in a format acceptable to the Bank,has beenenteredinto betweenthe
Borrower, through MOF and MOE, andNTF.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
Condition for Board Presentation

The project OperationalManualis approvedby the Bank.

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthe firstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o f project implementation.
    1. b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
   3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraisedand found to be realisticand of satisfactory
       quality.
04.Thefollowing itemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):



 I. Compliance with Bank Policies

    1. This project complies with all applicableBank policies.
   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconmiendedfor approval. The projectcomplies with
       all other applicable Rank policies.




 Mm-'Canning            '~.- _.1          MaureenMcLaughlin                      Julian Schweiker-
 Team Leader                              Sector Manager                         Country ManagerlDirector




                                                   - 35 -



                                                             ,

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT
                                              rformance
                                              icators                                                                    ns
                                Sector Indicators:               Sector1country reports:       from Goal to Bank Mission)
(i) improve business            Availability o f modem           [ntemational education         L modem efficient education
environment and enhance         :ducational services through     ndicators from annual reports ystem drives economic
competition;                    more flexible delivery                                         rowth. The improvement o f
                                methods                                                         uman capital i s a
                                                                                                rerequisite for the alleviation
                                                                                                fpovertyandthe growth of
                                                                                                ompetitiveness.
(ii) improve human capital                                       Education Indicators in
through the delivery and                                         ;elected remote Regions,
development o f more modem                                       :ollected from national
education and training                                           -eports
services;
(iii) deteriorationin
      reverse                   Improved equity o f access for   Sociological studies to
the delivery o f educational    students inremote areas and      ietermine equality o f access
services.                       from poor families               :o education

Program Purpose:                End-of-ProgramIndicators: Programreports:                       From Purpose to Goal)
The Govemment education         1) Improvement inquality o f     StatisticalReports issuedby    jovemment provides
modemization program (upto Education - data from                 Zi)Goskomstat; (ii)Centerfor   ufficient financial and
2010) aims to improve           intemational research on         Statistics; and (iii)
                                                                                    National    iumanresources to
quality, equity and efficiency  quality o f education and from   Center for Education           mplement modemization
o f education                   RussianUnified State Exam        Statistics and Monitoring in   irogram.
                                results.                         2007,2009
                                                                 Sociological studies.
                                2) Increase in equal access to
                                modem educational services
                                o f good quality for students
                                from different social groups
                                andterritories.



Project Development             Outcome IImpact                  Project reports:               from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                      Indicators:
Assist the Govemment o f        Numbero f9th grade               Report on annual ICT           jovemment support for
Russia to implement its         graduates demonstrating ICT competency study (exam)             nodemization o f education
education modernization         competency (inthe project        starting from 2004.            rogram remains constant anc
program through the             regions) rises by end 2007.                                     rctivities are completed for
orientation o f the educational                                                                 :ach phase within the agreed
system to the global            Number o f teachers              Report on annual ICT           )eriodo ftime.
information society. This will demonstrating ICT                 competency study (exam)
be accomplished intwo           competency (inthe project        starting from 2004.
phases starting with the        regions) rises by end 2007.
highest priority needs.
                                Number o f general schools       Three surveys: during first
                                mdIVE institutions which         stage o f project
                                have an improved use o f ICT implementation and by the
                                for educational purposes         :nd o f each phase ofthe



                                                            - 36 -

                                according to an set o f          roject. Methodology to be
                                indicators agreed at project      eveloped within E-Education
                                launch.                           rogram.
                                                                 lase level indicators agreed
                                                                 uringfirst stage of project
                                                                 nplementation.
Phase One o f the Project       By 2007, new generation          mnual monitoring requests      3ovemment supports
Improve the quality, relevance teaching and leaming              including those received via   ievelopment o fnew
and accessibility o f Russian   materials are inuse in 50% o f   ntemet) for new digital        ,egulatory framework and
general and initial vocational  schools in 7 regions.            iaterials.                     ,emains committed to
education through: (i)                                                                          nvestment ine- Russia and
development o f new leaming     By 2007, an increase in          'roject completion report.     :-Education programs
materials; (ii)support for both snrollment o f students in       Baseline data to be
pre-service and in-service      iistance courses and             stablished at project launch.)
teacher training inthe          :ducational projects supported
introduction o f ICT into       :hrough ICT and ensuring
teaching and leaming; and       :qual access.
(iii)establishing notlessthan
200 resource centers to         By 2006, a greater share o f     Leports in 2007 from regional
improve access to ICT           schools and municipal and        LCS
enhanced education              regional education
opportunities and to            administrations in
disseminate new teaching        participatingregions with
practices.                      2006-2010 e-Education
                                programs.




Output from each                Output Indicators:               'roject reports:               [fromOutputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1.                    Sets o f digital teaching and    innual analytical reports.     &rent implementation
Creation o f new generation o f leaming materials (focused on                                   agencies cooperate to
affordable, high quality, and   modem pedagogical                                               sliminate duplication and
flexible digital teaching and   technologies) supporting the                                    iivergent directions.
leaming resources.              main curriculum areas o f
                                general and IVE schools are                                     Standards for curriculum
                                xeated.                                                         incorporating ICT skills and
                                                                                                :ore skills are inplace.

                                                                                                reaching and learning
                                                                                                resources distribution
                                                                                                mechanisms put inplaceby
                                                                                                the GoR

                                                                                                Legal and regulatory bamers
                                                                                                removed.
Component2.                     Not less than 50% o f             innual reports from Regional Increasedskills inuse o f ICT
Teachers trained to use new     teachers ingeneral and initial    tesource centers.             will be rewarded by incentives
generation leaming materials    vocational education system                                     to retain younger and more
and to embedICT inteaching Lnparticipatingregions                                               flexible teachers who might



                                                            - 37 -

*actice                     rained to:                                                       therwise be attracted to
                                                                                             rivate enterprise
                               D       use ICT teaching and
                               eaming materials
                                       incorporatenew
                               :ducational technologies into
                               :eaching practice;
                               D       produce new leaming
                               naterials;
                               D        support students who
                               Ise e-leaming materials to
                               rtudysubjects not offered at
                               :heir local school.

                               Not less than 7 teacher            nnual reports.
                               raining universities
                               introducednew standards and
                               structure o f pre-service
                               teacher training for the
                               :ffective use o f ICT in
                               students' future teaching
                               work.

                               Capacity for use o f               .nnual reports.
                               instructional design in
                               developing leaming materials
                               is created(number o f experts
                               trained).


Iomponent 3.                   A functioning network o fnot       LnnualReports from           .esource centers focus on

Jodem teaching and leamine     less then 200 resource centers     .egional Resource Centers.   qual access to educational

CT resource centers created     providing access to training,                                  :sources for teachers and

n selected regions o f the      resources and support inthe                                    tudents o f General and IVE

Lussian Federation to pilot     use o f ICT in education for                                   ducation.

he program                      majority o f schools inthe
                                project regions including:                                     .oca1governments have
                                                                                               llocatedfinancial resources
                                (a) methodological support                                     n budgetsin order to finance
                                and advisory services for                                      alaries and recurrent costs fc
                                teachers                                                       naintenance and supplies


                                 @) technical and                                              )ecision to place centers is
                                maintenance support services                                   hvenby real needs o f
                                for schools                                                    argeted users and located as
                                (c) a "curriculum guarantee"                                   :loseas possible to users
                                to selected distance education
                                services
                                (d) community andindustry
                                facilities providing access to
                                ICT training and developmen
                                o f new educational services
                                for population.

                                Each region, which receivedi



                                                             - 38 -

                                ;rant to support the
                                ntroduction o f ICT into its
                                :ducation system ,has
                                leveloped an e-Education
                                irogram to 2010 based on
                                essons leamed from Project
                                iilot regions.




'roject ComponentsI             nputs: (budgetfor each          'roject reports:          from Componentsto
Sub-components:                 :omponent)                                                Iutputs)
1. LearningMaterials            JS $35.1 million                Legular Bank monitoring
                                                                eports including:

                                                                I Progress reports;

                                                                1 Financialreports;

                                                                1 Disbursement reports;

                                                                1 Procurement records;

                                                                1 Contracts;

                                                                1 Terms o f Reference

                                                                1 Audits;

                                                                1 Supervision Reports.
L . 1. Regulatory framework o f                                                           4 legislative and regulatory
:-Learning                                                                                iamework emerges and
                                                                                          Irafts are approved by the
                                                                                          Zussian Govemment.
L .2. Development and                                                                     The creation o f pool o f digital
nanagement o f digital                                                                    'esourcesaccessible to all
eaming resources                                                                          ;enera1 and initial vocational
                                                                                          ;chools throughout Russia.

                                                                                          4 constructivist approach to
                                                                                          he development o f
                                                                                          nformational resources is
                                                                                          Nidelyused.
1.3. Testingnew teaching                                                                  'rocedures for quality
md leaming materials and                                                                  issurance are developed;
leveloping methodologies for                                                              esting sites are inuse.
sing them.
1. Teacher Training in the      JS $43.24 million               tegular Bank monitoring
:ducational use of ICT                                          ,eports including:

                                                                1 Progress reports;

                                                                1 Financial reports;

                                                                1 Disbursement reports;

                                                                1 Procurement records;

                                                                1 Contracts;

                                                                1 Terms o f Reference;

                                                                1 Audits;

                                                                1 Supervision Reports.
l.1Regulatory framework for                                                               Educational authorities
eacher training in use of ICT                                                             ipprove and accept regulatory
                                                                                          :hanges.


                                                           - 39 -

2.2 Improvement o f teachers'                                                   i t least 50% of teachers in
qualifications and support o f                                                   )ilotregions are trained and
teachers' e-leaming activities                                                   lave on-going support
                                                                                 ivailable
2.3 Development o f                                                              ippropriate courses in
instructional design capacity                                                    nstructional design created
                                                                                 md accessed.
2.4 Pre-Service teacher                                                          'ractice to train future
training                                                                         eachers inthe effective use of
                                                                                 CT in their future work is
                                                                                 ntroduced inteachers'
                                                                                 iniversities.
3. Development of a            JS $63.45 million       Zegular Bank monitoring
Network of Interschool                                 ,eports including:
Resource Centers                                       1Progress reports;

                                                       1Financial reports;

                                                       1Disbursement reports;
                                                        Procurement records;

                                                       1 Contracts;

                                                       1 Terms o f Reference;

                                                       1 Audits;

                                                       1 Supervision Reports.
3.1 Strategic Management                                                         Medium and long term
and Planning                                                                     nanagement plans to create
                                                                                 :onditions for the effective USI
                                                                                 IfICTinorder to achieve the
                                                                                 ;oak o f the Russian educatioi
                                                                                 nodemization program are
                                                                                 fieveloped.
3.2 Establishing Interschool                                                     4 capacity to sustain the
Resource Center networks                                                         jevelopment o f teachers in
                                                                                 regions o f Russia in their use
                                                                                 3 fICT in education, to
                                                                                 support students by providing
                                                                                 access to resources and
                                                                                 support and to support local
                                                                                 2ommunities intheir use o f
                                                                                 [CT.
3.3 Systemic support to the                                                      A functioning network of
introduction o f ICT in general                                                  resource centers, providing
and initial vocational                                                           access to training, resources
education on the basis o f a                                                     andsupport inthe use o f ICT
network o f IRCs                                                                 ineducation.
3.4 Development o fpublic                                                        Professional and public
awareness and support                                                            support for the Project.
3.5 Support o f regional                                                         Development o f e-Education
e-learning projects                                                              programs inadditional
I                                                                                regions is supported.
4: Project Management                                  quarterly Reports         Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                                                 System inPlace




                                                  - 40 -

                                  Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT
APL: Phase One

The proposed project would support the program goals o f improving the accessibility, quality, and
efficiency o f general and first level vocational education inRussia through: (i)
                                                                                buildingsustainable Russian
capacity to produce high quality, affordable and flexible learning materials to meet the needs o f students,
teachers and education managers preparing to participate in a knowledge economy; (ii)         supporting both
pre-service and in-service teacher training inthe introduction o f ICT into classrooms and its embedding in
teaching and learning practices; and (iii) establishing inproject regions a network o fresource centers which
would improve regional access to ICT enhanced education opportunities and dissemination o f new teaching
practices.


The project is designed to set up enabling conditions to support the system-wide introduction and enhanced
use o f I C T in Russian general and initial vocational schools. As a result o f the project the majority o f
schools inproject regions, andleading model schools in some other regions, would move to a level o f ICT
use inteaching andlearning that would result inthe efficient use o f digital leaming resources andelectronic
tools necessary for full participation in a knowledge society; promote active and independent student
learning; and encourage the flexible organization o f learning. As an outcome, the project will create
enhanced, and labor market-relevant leaming opportunities for students, regardless o f their social status or
o f their geographical location.

By Component:

Project Component 1: US$35.10million
                         -
Learning Materials
This component will address the critical shortage o f appropriate e-learning materials in Russian and
introduce an effective system for the creation, acquisition, storage and maintenance o f digital leaming
resources. For this purpose, the project will develop: (a) systems o ftechnical andmanagement standards to
guide digital resource developers; (b) long term contracts between state structures and owners o f
informational resources; and (c) a set o f regulatory documents providing a basis for the development,
management and use of digital educational resources. N e w generation learning materials covering general
schools' curriculum and selected subjects o f first level vocational education will be purchased or created
aimed at achieving learning results o f higher quality and relevance. Learning materials will be based o n the
collection o f digitalinformational sources (reusable objects) open to general use (also established within the
framework o f this component) covering the majority o f curriculum requirements for general and initial
vocational education. Educational institutions will be provided with a comprehensive set o f digitaltools for
leaming and management. The management and planning elements o f this component will involve a
consultative planning process with teachers in regions. Learning materials development proposals will be
prioritized. Procedures for experimental work with digital learning resources will be created. Materials will
be evaluated and reportedupon when they are used by teachers.

Sub-component 1.1: Regulatory framework of e-Learning

This sub-component would support the creation o f the appropriate regulatory documents to ensure the
effective development, management and use o f digital educational resources in general and initial
vocational education with the objective o f developing enabling conditions for the effective implementation
of e-Learning programs within the Project. Activities within this sub-component include: (i) analysis of
                                                                                                the



                                                     -41  -

the existing regulatory framework; (ii) development o f new regulatory documents for use within the
                                          the
project. The following activities will be financed within the framework o f this sub-component:


(i)   the development o f regulations for using digital informational resources ineducation;
(ii)  the analysis o f national standards for creating and storing informational resources and the
      development o f proposals for updating the standards (including agreements on technical standards);
(iii)the   design o f standard catalogue descriptors for informational education resources, including the
      establishment o f standards for metadata tagging*, the description o f primary informational objects
      and their relationships interms o fuse inleaming processes:
(iv)  the creation o f job descriptions for education workers responsible for I C T in different parts o f the
      education system;
(v)    the development o f draft standards for ICT enhanced teaching and learning (including professional
      and financing standards);
(vi)  other necessary regulatory documents for effective use o f ICT in schools.




*Metadata tagging is an intemationally recognized approach used to find digital resources. Electronic
search-engines (for example Google, Altavista etc) find specific resources by identifying descriptors or
`tags' embedded inthe code o fthose resources.

Sub-component1.2: Developmentand managementof digitallearningresources

The aim o f this sub-component is to create or obtain various types o f digital learning resources for
teachers, students, and tutors and to manage the access to, and distribution o f these resources. Within the
framework o f this sub-component the accessibility o f all developed learning materials will be assured by
creating a system o f resource storage and distribution. The project assumes that the Government o f Russia,
through its e-Education program is developing mechanisms for the distribution o f teaching and learning
resources to all schools in Russia. This project will rely on this capacity to distribute the materials it
produces.

1.2.1 Development of collections of digital informational objects for general and initial vocational
education

Collections o f digital informational objects (structured static images, structured moving images, interactive
models, structured sounds and texts) will comprehensively cover the requirements o f general and initial
vocational education. The collection will be made available to all institutions o f general and initial
vocational education and can be used for creating new teaching andlearning resources.

The following activities will be fmanced within the framework o f this sub-component:
(i) the creationofa comprehensivelist ofinformationalobjectsreflecting the requirements ofthe
         general and initial vocational education curricula;
(ii) thecollectionofdigitalcopiesofuniqueinformationalsources(forexampleculturalobjects);
(iii) thedevelopmentoforiginalinformationalresources(forexamplevideofilmsaboutnaturalscience
         experiments or natural phenomena, foreign language dialogues);
(iv)     the development o f a collection o f sophisticated learningproducts;
(v)      the production and attachment o f informational source descriptions (metadata tags, equivalent to a
         book description for a library) permitting efficient digital searching for objects and materials;
(vi)     building a capacity for storing, providing access to and distributing open collections o f


                                                      -42  -

         informational objects inconnection with the Government o f Russia's e-Education program;
(v)      the development of a collection ofeducationalvideo films.

1.2.2Development of digital applicationsand tools

Materials development requires access to a range o f software applications and digital tools. A set o f digital
tools increasing the effectivenessofteaching andlearningwill consist of the following groups o ftools:
  .      general user applications and tools;
  .      professional applications and tools adapted for educational purposes (for instance programs for
         processing numerical experiments, systems o f automated designing for initial vocational
         education);
  .      specialized tools o f teaching and learning activities (for example virtual laboratory complexes,
         distancelaboratory complexes);
  .      specialized applications and tools for creating digital teaching and leamingmaterials;
  .      Student assessment development software.

The following activities will be financed within the framework of this sub-component:
(i)    the development and licensing of a complete set of digital applications and tools for general
education;
(ii)   the development and licensing o f a representative set of digital applications and tools for initial
vocational education.

The licenses acquired in this sub-component will allow access to these tools by all institutions o f general
and initial vocational education.

1.2.3 Development of learning management tools

The organization of the learning process will be supported by the development and licensing o f specialized
software for curriculum developers, teachers and school administrators. This software will be used in
general schools, initial vocational schools and Resource Centers.

The tools would include systems for:

  .      Inter school telecommunication projects;
  .      Distance learning support;
  .      Schedule creation;
  ..     Documentation management;
         Registeringand reporting formal results of learning activities (including student and teacher digital
portfolios).

The following activities will be financed withinthe framework ofthis sub-component:
(i)    the selection o f specializedtools;
(ii)   the development o f a system for managing learning processes and the development o f an open
       educational informational environment;
(iii)the   development o ftools for managing student access to Intemet resources;
(iv)   support of existing educational portals in respect o f storing and disseminating the digital learning
       resources.

1.2.4Development of innovative teaching and learning materials in key educational areas


                                                     -43-

To achieve new learningoutcomes extensive renewal o f the curriculum is necessary. This sub-component is
aimed at developing sets o f leaming materials and materials for teachers (cumculum packages) for selected
disciplines in general and initial vocational education. These sets will utilize ICT to achieve new
educational outcomes.

Curriculum packages will include materials for both students andteachers, and these materials are oriented
to various forms o f educational process organization (lecture by a teacher, speech by a student, virtual and
real laboratory work and analysis o f their results, work with different information sources, practical
technical skills, etc). Components designed for full-time education, home education, self-education (also
known as "extemal"), distance education and extra curricular education will be selected out o fthese sets.

The following activities will be financed within the framework o f this sub-component:
(i)      the development of materials on specific subject areas, all basic subjects and the most important
         educational modules, as well as areas that have a cross-curriculum application;
(ii)     the development o f versions o f the curriculum packages for general and initial vocational
         education;
(iii)    the distribution o f curriculum packages.

Sub-component 1.3: Testing new teaching and learning materials and developing methodologies for
using them

The aim o f this sub-component is to test existing and evolving educational resources. Testing sites will be
selected so as to represent the spectrum o f educational settings that exist in Russia. They will develop
recommendations (based on the outcomes o f testing) on the use o f new leaming material and for necessary
revisions.

Another essential function o f testing sites in cooperation with the Resource Centers, will be the
accumulation o f experience and demonstration o f the actual use o f informational technologies in the
leaming process and corresponding work with public andmass media.

The following activities will be financed within the framework o f this sub-component:
(i)      the development o f procedures for testing new teaching and learning materials and methodologies
         for using them based on educational effectiveness indicators;
(ii)     the provision o f 2-3 schools and one initial vocational school in each participating region with all
         necessary equipment to conduct testing;
(iii)    the provision o f 10-12 advanced general schools and/or initial vocational schools in other regions
         with all necessary equipment to conduct testing;
(iv)     the testing o f learning resources designed for distance and extra curricular education by 5-7 centers
         of distance andextra curricular education inthe pilot regions.




                                                      - 44 -

Project Component 2 US$43.24million
                      -
Teacher Training inthe Educational Use of ICT

This component will support the training o f current and future teachers and management staff o f education
authorities inthe participating regions in the effective use of information and communication technologies
(ICT) inthe education process. The training will be implemented on the basis of the teaching and learning
materials developed under Components One and Two. Resource Centers to be established under
Component Three o f the project will play a key role in delivering this training. The proposed training
programs will result in a change o f training patterns andteaching practices ingeneral and initial vocational
schools both within and beyond the participating regions. N e w generation training materials as well as
consulting services in how to use these materials generated by this project will become available for the
training o f teachers throughout the entire territory o f the Russian Federation. The management and
planning elements o f this component will involve a consultative planning process with all stakeholders
involved inthe preparation and continuing professional education o f teachers. Activities will be prioritized,
evaluated andreported.

Sub-component 2.1: Regulatory framework of teacher training inthe use of ICT

The objective o f this sub-component is to develop the necessary regulatory documents to support teacher
training in the area o f ICT. This will ensure dissemination o f the results achieved by the project over the
whole education system. The regulatory documents to be developed will be based on best national and
worldwide practice andbe subject to extensive discussion andtesting.

The sub-component will develop and finance:
 (i)development     o f a Russia wide quality management system for teacher pre-service and in-service
      training inthe area o f introducing ICT in education for the unified system o f curricula and relevant
      modular training courses;
 (ii)developmentofaunifiedsystemofrequirements(regulatorydocuments, specialtycertificates,etc.)to
      be met andmaterials to be used for the certification o f education workers inthe application o f I C T in
      the training process.

Sub-component 2.2: Improvement of teachers' qualifications and support of teachers' e-learning
activities

2.2.1Basic ICT competenciesfor teachers

The purpose o f this sub-component i s to train teachers o f general and IVE in the area o f basic ICT slulls
and the development o f basic competencies to use ICT in teaching. In this respect a set o f training and
methodological materials as well as a unified training program will be produced and about 200,000
teachers inproject regions and some other regions will be trained andcertified inbasic I C T skills.

The following activities will be financed under this sub-component:
(i)     development o f a modular set o f training and methodological materials, which supports the
        development o fbasic ICT competencies among teachers o f all subjects, school management and
        librarians;
(ii) trainingofpedagogicalstaff.




                                                     - 45 -

2.2.2In-service training of education managementstaff

The purpose o f this sub-component i s to support the managementstaff at various levels inproject regions
inthe development and implementation of programs of introducing ICT in education, and to support the
use of ICT intheir management activities.

The following will be developedandfinanced underthis sub-component:
(i)     programs and methodological materials aimed at providing training and assistance to senior and
        mid-leveladministrators responsiblefor the regional andlocal education system;
(ii)    training o f senior and mid-level administrative staff inall participatingregions (at the regional and
        local levels);
(iii)   on-going methodological and consulting support to senior and mid-level administrative staff inthe
        participating regions o f the project on the problems o f introducing ICT ineducation process at the
        regional and local levels;
(iv)    provision o f consultancies (via Intemet, conferences, workshops and through publications in the
        specialized pedagogical press) for representatives o f all regions o f Russia on the efficient use of
        training and methodological materials to be developed, and in methods o f training management
        staff at the regional and local levels.


2.2.3 In-service training of staff in thegeneral and initial vocational schools

The purpose o f this sub-component is to support the efforts o f school teams (consisting o f teachers from
each school inproject regions) to introduce ICT in the education process, and inthe use o f new training
materials (developedunder Component One) inthe teaching process.

The following activities will be financed underthis sub-component:

 (i)thedevelopmentoftrainingprograms,trainingandmethodological materials for improvement of
      skills of school team membersin introducingICT to education processes;
 (ii)thedevelopmentofprograms,trainingandmethodologicalmaterialsaimedattrainingschoolsubject
      teams to deal with changes o f teaching practices in six subject areas using digital training resources
      providedunderComponent One;
 (iii)thedevelopmentofprograms,trainingandmethodologicalmaterials,aimedatimprovementofskills
      and retraining o f teachers for distance leamindteaching;
 (iv) the distributiono f developed training programs, training andmethodological materials to inter-school
      resource centers (methodology expertshtors from other resource centers o f the project will be
      trained to continue a similar effort locally);
 (v) support of network associations of teachers involved in introducing ICT in education process
      (includingvia Internet);
 (vi) the provision o f advisory support (including via Intemet, conferences, workshops and through
      publications in specialized pedagogical press) for general and initial vocational school workers
      (administrative and teaching staff) on issues pertainingto the effective application o f training and
      methodological materials andmethods of training developedunder the project.

Sub-component 2.3: Development of instructional design capacity

The purpose o f this sub-component is to strengthen national capacity in the design o f digital training


                                                     - 46 -

resources, from the mastering of relevant basic techniques by teachers on a mass scale to the training o f
expertsto international standards inthe field of digital resourcedevelopment.

The following activities will be financed underthis sub-component:

(i) employinginternational expertiseto trainaleadingteamofinstructional designexperts (upto 120
    people);
(ii)the development ofprograms,trainingandmethodologicalmaterialsto train instructional designers
    (including the staff o f private companies, methodologists and teachers). The developed materials will
    be used: (a) to train school teams (Sub-component 2.2.3); (b) to introduce on a pilot basis relevant
    courses for students in 7 Teachers' Universities (Sub-component 2.4); and (c) to train instructional
    designers for software companies;
(iii)theprovisionofadvice (includingviaIntemet,nation-wide workshops,throughpublications inthe
    pedagogical press) for representativeso f all regions o f Russia on the issues of instructionaldesign.

Sub-component 2.4: Pre-service teacher training

The objective of this sub-component is to change the current practices of training of future teachers inthe
teachers' universities inorder to train theminthe effective employment of ICT intheir hture work.

The following activities will be financed under this sub-component:
(i)the  development and testing of student training programs in 6 subject areas in 7 higher education
    pedagogical institutions (with at least 7 of them inthe participatingregions) usingthe digital training
    resourcesdevelopedunder the Component One;
(ii)the development andpilottestingofstudenttrainingprograms in7 higher educationpedagogical
    institutions to train future teachers in the instructional design topic using the materials developed
    under Sub-component 2.3.
(iii)theorganizationofextensivediscussionsofthedevelopedmaterialsandresultsoftheirfield-testing
    among professionals (including via Intemet, workshops, conferences, etc.).

Project Component 3 US$ 63.45 million
                      -
Development of a Network of Interschool Resource Centers

The objectives o f this component are: (i)to improve regional access to ICT enhanced education
opportunities for students andteachers o f institutions o f general education and initial vocational education
through the creation o f resource centers and (ii)to accumulate and give access to experience in
modemizing educational and management activities o f general schools and institutions o f initial vocational
education (IVE), based on the use o f information and communication technologies and (iii)          to provide
technical support to ensure the effective hctioning o f hardware and software inschools.

The implementation of this component will facilitate: (i)the creation of a network of regional and
municipal Interschool Resource Centers (IRCs) to support the introduction of ICT in general and initial
vocational education (not less than 200 IRCs); (ii)    the development o f a system of hardware, software,
telecommunication, management and advisory support for the introduction of ICT in general and initial
vocational education as well as additional education, based on a network of resource centers; (iii)the
extensive distribution o f materials developed under Components One and Two and the dissemination o f
new teaching practices; (iv) the improvement o f ICT qualifications o f managers, general school teams and
IVEteachers as envisagedby Component Two.




                                                    - 47 -

 Sub-component3.1: StrategicManagementand Planning

The implementation o f this sub-component will facilitate the effective and coherent use o f ICT resources
through a strategic planning process, based on clear performance indicators, reflecting social, economic and
educational outcomes stemming from widespread use o f ICT inschools.

The following activities will be financed:


 (i)     an analysis o f the current situation inthe field o f e-Learning inRussia;
 (ii)    the development o f generic strategic plans for the widespread introduction and enhanced
         pedagogical use o f ICT in schools at Federal, regional, municipal and institutional levels,
         includingthe     development o f projects to establish a network o f IRCs in project regions and
         recommendations for IRC network development inlong term and medium term;
(iii)    the monitoring o f ICT strategic planning outcomes.

 Sub-component3.2: EstablishingInterschoolResource Center networks

This sub-component will build up hardware, software, telecommunication, management and advisory
 capacity for implementing models o f ICT introduction applicable to institutions o f both general and initial
vocational education in the project regions and their subsequent dissemination in all o f the regions o f the
Russian Federation. The placement o f the IRCs network will supplement and complement the existing
 capacities o f regions.

 The following activities will be financed

3.2.1 Development of a modelIRC network, including
(i)      the development o fprototype projects o f four types of IRCs: regional, extended, basic and
         elementary;
(ii)     the mapping of a regional IRC network;
(iii)    assistance inmaking appropriate amendments to the regulatory framework for the purposes o f
         formulating IRC Regulations.

 3.2.2 Selection and training ofpersonnel for IRCs, including
(i)      the development o f training materials for IRC personnel training;
(ii)     the selection o f IRC personnel;
(iii)    the initial training o f IRC personnel.

3.2.3 Supply of equipment, commissioningof items of equipmentfor IRCs and connecting them to the
         Internet, including:
(i)      the supply o fequipment to not less than 200 IRCsinseven participating regions;
(ii)     the two-stage connection o f all IRCs to the Intemet. This connectivity will help put together all
         regional IRCs involved inthe project within a single educational information space, pave the way
         for network-based liaison among regional schools and IVE institutions, and foster regional ties.
         Duringthe first stage, proxy servers o f regional and extendedresource centers are to be connected
         to Intemet. During the second stage, all elementary and basic IRCs are to be connected to proxy
         servers o f regional resource centers and procedures introduced to sustain the operational
         effectiveness o f the network beyond the life o f this project.



                                                       - 48 -

Sub-component 3.3: Systemic support to the introduction of ICT in general and initial vocational
education on the basis of a network of IRCs

The objectives o f this sub-component are:
(i)     to create an I C T support system and to forge an educational information environment at schools
        and IVE institutions;
(ii)    to create distance support for students who do not have access to a full curriculum at their local
        schools.

The following activities will be funded by this sub-component:

3.3.1  Development of a support systemfor teachers and tutors, including:
(0      the establishment o f a system o f a training teachers andtutors (from all schools inparticipating
        regions) inarea o f ICT, including a system o f regular consultations and workshops inorder to
        share experience;
(ii) theestablishmentofregularsupportservicesforteachersandtutorsincludinghardwareand
        software services through the IRCs, provision o f accessto communication (network) resources,
        and the creation and support o f a hot-line facility;
(iii) theestablishmentandprovisionofInternetsupportforasitesponsoredbyregionalteaching
        communities (on the basis o f regional resource centers);
(iv)    the organization o f events (conferences, workshops, master classes) designed to promote teaching
        experience and initiatives involving the use o f digitalleaming resources ineducation;

(VI     the establishment o f free access to the mediatheque (library o f CD-ROMs) o f IRCs for both
        learners and teachers;
(vi)    the support o f teachers' initiatives inthe area o f e-learning on the basis o f grants.

3.3.2 Provision of distanceeducational services,including:
(0      the establishment o f distance interaction among learners, teachers and parents inthe areas o f
        general andinitial vocational education for those groups o f learners and teachers who do not have
        access to a required curriculum at their local schools, including the installation and on-going
        support for intemet sites o f distance education services inregional resource centers. (Such groups
        include, for instance, upper secondary students from rural andremote areas who would benefit
        from advanced curricula; disabled students);
(ii) thetestingprocessesfornewdistanceleamingcourses;
(iii) interschooltelecommunicationeducationalprojectsinitiatedbyschoolsandteachers(including
        academic competitions).

3.3.3    Afunctioning network of IRCs;including:
(i)     regular workshops for education executives and departments inorder to develop regional strategies
        for the introduction o f ICT ineducation ;
(ii) monitoringofprojectachievementintheregions;
(iii) continuingprofessionaldevelopmentprogramsforIRCstaff(managers,tutors,advisors,technical
        staff).

3.3.4    Providing technical and maintenance supportfor computer equipment, including:
(9      organizing ongoing and after warranty technical andmaintenance support;
(ii) providingrecommendationsfortechnicalspecificationsofequipmenttobepurchasedin
        compliance with district and school e-education programs;
(iii) providingsupportinpurchasing,transportingandmaintainingequipment, informationalresources,


                                                      - 4 9 -

        and supplies.

Sub-component3.4: Developmentof publicawareness andsupport

The objective o f this sub-component is to ensure professional and public support for the Project and to
provide for the extensive participation o f all relevant parties (students, parents, teachers, businesspersons)
inthe discussion and implementation ofthe Project activities.

The following activities will be financed under the sub-component:
(i)     the periodic preparation and publication o f materials on the progress o f introducing ICT in
        teaching and learning process under the Project;
(ii)    coverage o fregional, district and individual school practices;
(iii)   information about the experience o f introducing ICT ineducation accumulatedunder the Project, to
        be provided to the teachers and public inall the regions o f Russia;
(iv)    discussion o f the main areas o f introducing ICT ineducation through the on-going
        Internet-publications, print mass media (inthe form o f overviews, reports, interviews, etc.), via
        electronic mass media (video, radio programs, TV broadcasts);
(v)     study o f the change inperceptions o f a modem Russian school and introduction o f I C T in
        education process among representatives o f various groups under the impact o f the Project.

Sub-component3.5: Support of regionale-learningprojects

The objective of this sub-component is to enhance (stimulate) the introduction o f ICT into the education
systems o f Russianregions other then first seven (participating inthe first phase) and to prepare additional
regions for participation inthe second phase o f the project.

A competitionbetween Russianregions (other than those participating inthe first phase) will be conducted
under the sub-component. Up to 15 regions will be awarded grants for implementation o f their e-education
programs. As the result o f the competition, additional regions will be prepared for participation inthe
second phase o f the project, their e-Education programs will be analyzed andreviewed, andregional
capacity buildingwill be supported.

Project Component4 US$3.65 million
                       -
ProjectManagement

As the purpose o f this project is to assist with the education modernization program o f the Government o f
Russia and with the orientation o f the educational system to the global information society in line with the
Government's e-Russia and e-Education Programs, the Project will be managed and co-coordinated at the
Federal level.

The existing MOE Strategic Management Committee composed o f Federal Ministry officials and senior
education managers from the participating Regions will manage the project. Federal representatives will be
drawn from the Ministries o f Education, Economy, and Finance, as well as from the broader professional
community. At Regional level, representatives will be Ministers and/or Heads o f Education Administration
inparticipating Regions aswell as members ofthe professional community. This committee will coordinate
and link GOR e-Russia and e-education programs among all stakeholders. Its main functions include
substantive project management as well as budget allocation o f financial resources among project
components and overall control o fproject implementation andproject final outcomes.



                                                      - 50 -

A Project Expert Committee focused on e-leaming will be established by the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) in order to provide substantial evaluation o f educational projects under implementation, including
project materials expertise and the development o f recommendations and proposals for the Ministry o f
Education Strategic Committee.

This component willprovide resources to operate the project for a duration of42 months (3.5 years). These
resources will consist of: (i)staff salaries; (ii)additional training for newly recruited PIU staff; and (iii)
consultancies to assist with implementation at Regional level andto monitor and evaluate project outcomes.
In addition, the costs of annual audits, small office equipment and operating expenses such as
communications and office supplies and travel o f PIU members will also be financed by the loan. Loan
fundingwill be used for ofice space for the PIU.




                                                    -51  -

                                          Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                     RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT




Component 3: Development of a Network of Interschool
Resource Centers
Component 4: Project Management
Total Baseline Cost




 1
  Identifiable taxes and duties are 13 (US$m)andthe total project cost, net oftaxes, is 132.44 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 75.5 1%of
 total project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                   - 52 -

                        Annex 4 Comparison of Impact and Cost of the Project
                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT
Economic andFiscalAnalysis

EconomicAnalysis

Since the ambition o f the project is to help to change the comparative advantage o f the Russian economy
(see below), use o f formal cost/ benefit analysis (a partial-equilibrium technique) is impossible. However,
cost/ benefit is the appropriate qualitative framework within which to assess the project.

A cost/ benefit framework

Cost/ benefit analysis o f any project must be based on a comparison o f the with-project and without-project
situation. In this respect it should be noted that this project is not concerned with putting computers into
schools: this is already happening, as part o f a prior government program.

Thus the without-project situation may be one o f schools with computers but without teachers who have
been trained how to introduce ICT into classrooms, without access to ICT-enhanced educational
opportunities andteaching practices, and without the materials that students, teachers and managers needto
participate actively in a knowledge economy. There is no evidence that such an approach to ICT would
have any positive learning or labor-market outcomes.

The with-project situation will be one o f schools with computers but also with the teachers, practices and
materials needed to use them effectively. Caution is inorder inassessing the likely benefits o f an investment
o f this lund, but it is equally dangerous to take too static an approach to analysis.

The project'simpact on learningoutcomes

As far as learning outcomes are concerned, the proper use o f ICT in teaching all or most subjects is
explicitly intended to promote a more problem-solving, collaborative approach to learning to the benefit o f
the quality o f outcomes.

Evidence from international surveys suggests that Russia's academic standards in two areas o f traditional
strength - mathematics and science - are being maintained. For example, 72 per cent o f its eighth grade
students tested by the Third International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) in 1999 reached the
median international benchmark score in mathematics (Table l),        about the same proportion as four years
earlier. Inboth level and trend, Russia matched the average achievements o f other countries in the sample
classified by UNDP as 'high-human-development for both years and did considerably better than, for
instance, the U S (61 per cent at or above the median in 1999)and Italy (52 per cent). Inscience, its TIMSS
results showed a similar picture.

Table 1: Trendsin gthgrade mathematics achievement -percentof students at or abovemedianinternational
                                                                                           5-1999 (Yo)
                                                                  1995            1999
     Baltic States                                                 52               58
     CentralEurope                                                 77               74
     Slovenia                                                      76               74
     SouthEasternEurope                                            60               58
     Russia                                                        72               72


                                                      - 53 -

     All transitioncountries                                      67               66
     High-Human-Development countries                             73               73



The TIMSS tests academic achievement in two important subjects in a rigorous way. The OECD Program
for International Student Assessment (PISA) study includes assessment o f these and other subject skills but
takes a broader approach to their measurement - looking at fifteen-year-olds' ability to use their knowledge
and skills in order to meet real-life life challenges rather than at the extent o f their mastery of a specific
school curriculum. Table 2 shows how students inRussia performed inthe tests inthree domains -reading
literacy, mathematical literacy and scientific literacy - in comparison with the other four transition
countries and twenty other hgh-human-development countries inthe sample. In contrast to TIMSS, Russia
lags behindthe high-HD average in all three domains. While the extent o f the lag is not huge (8% per cent
inreading and science and less than 6 per cent inmathematics), there is clearly something to worry about
here.




                                         Readingliteracy       Scientific literacy Mathematicalliteracy
    Czech Republic                              492                   511                   498
    Hungary                                     480                   496                   488
    Poland                                      479                   483                   470
    RussianFederation                           462                   460                   478
    Latvia                                      458                   460                   463
    High HD countries                            505                  503                   507



The contrast between Russia's TIMSS andPISA results suggests that the notorious 'factology' approach to
teaching and learning, which built strength in awareness o f facts or solving a known class o f problem, but
not in applying a given technique to a new problem or in choosing which technique to use to solve a new
problem, is not entirely dead. This suggestion is f i r h e r supported by the answers which students gave to
questions from PISA researchers about their leaming strategies. As Table 3 shows, Russian students put
more emphasis on memorization and less on cooperative learning than do OECD students on average
(though the contrast inboth cases is less extreme than inthe case o f Hungary).



                            Memorization        Elaboration    Co-operative learning Competitivelearning
   Czech Republic                -0.06              0.10                -0.06                 0.14
   Hungary                        0.89              0.15                -0.34                 0.10
   Russia                         0.36              0.14                -0.23                 0.13
   Latvia                         0.17              0.04                0.24                  0.22




The thrust o fthe project i s to support a shift inlearning strategies andoutcomes, from those which generate
the old skills to those which generate the new skills shown inTable 4 below. The argument is that the use
o f ICT inteaching, while not automatically causing such a shiR, will strongly support a move by teachers
inthis direction. Some teachers can and will work inthese ways without ICT, but it will be difficult and



                                                       - 54 -

they will have trouble explaining to their peers how they do it. With ICT, both the process o f teaching this
way, and the process o f explaining it to peer teachers, become immensely easier. For example,
computer-based simulations in natural and social sciences allow students to work with 'real-world'
situations; computer-based mathematical environments give students the chance to model processes and
visualize results quickly; internet-based information sources in the humanities both allow students to
wrestle with the complexity of large data sets and also require them to make judgements about the value
and veracity o f information. Students in vocational training programs can address problems with layers o f
complexity andreal-world uncertainty.


   Old skills:                                New skills:
   Apply knowledge acquiredby rote            Apply problem-solving strategies
   Use invariant sources o f information      Acquire, evaluate information from diverse sources
   Work as a 'solo practitioner'            I Work  as a collaborator or member o f a team
   Operate inroutine, unchangingways        1 Operate ina flexible, self-correcting way
Source: Kerr (2002).

The project'simpacton labor-marketoutcomes

Improvement in reading-literacy performance, resulting from such changes in teaching and learning
strategies, would be likely to have a positive impact on labor-market outcomes. The OECD International
Adult Literacy Survey (OECD and Statistics Canada 2000) foundthat people with higher levels o freading
literacy are more likely to be employed and to have higher average salaries than those with lower levels.
Moreover, reading literacy levels can help to predict how well people will do inthe labor market over and
above what can be predicted from their educational qualifications alone. Among 26-35-year-olds working
in the business sector in all countries covered by the I U S in 1994-98 the probability of working in a
white-collar, highly skilled job rises rapidly with an increase in reading literacy skills (OECD 2001:Box
1.2).

Within the more dynamic framework o f intemational trade theory, improvement in reading literacy skdls
and achievement o f universal digital literacy would help to shift Russia's comparative advantage from
natural resources + cheap labor to high-technology skills. The need for such a shift can be judged from the
current weakness o f the Russian economy in relation to its international competitors. For example, the
Global Competitiveness Report ranks countries by their micro-economic competitiveness and their 'growth
competitiveness' or potential for fast growth. Inits latest report, for 2002, the top places intables based on
both criteria are occupied by a predictable selection o f North American, European and Asian economies.
As Table 5 (which includes all the transition countries sampled) shows, Russia is near the bottom of both
tables - below most transition and many developing countries. On the criterion o f micro-economic
competitiveness, Russia is ranked 58Ihout o f 80. In the ranking by growth competitiveness (one o f the
ingredients o f which is 'economic creativity', based on economically effective innovation or transfer o f
technology), Russia is even lower, at 64fh.




   USA                                       1                                    1
   Finland                                   2                                    2
   Taiwan                                    3                                    16
   UK                                        11                                   3
   Slovenia                                 27                                    28



                                                    - 55 -

  Hungary                                   28                                29
  Estonia                                   30                                26
  Czech Republic                            34                                40
  China                                     38                                33
  Lithuania                                 40                                36
  Slovakia                                  42                                49
  Latvia                                    45                                44
  Poland                                    46                                51
  Croatia                                    52                               58
  Russia                                     58                               64
  Vietnam                                   60                                65
  Romania                                   67                                66
  Bulgaria                                  68                                62
  Ukraine                                   69
                                             -_                               77



Improvement in international competitiveness will depend partly on a re-Orientation o f education towards
acquisition o f the new skills that are relevant to it. In this respect, the continued high quality of its
mathematics and science education, exemplified by the TIMSS results already discussed, is a huge
advantage. And, as Table 6 suggests, although Russia lags behind the OECD average inreading literacy, it
already has a relatively high proportion o f 'trainable' 15-year-olds (Le. those who are already at or above
Level 3 inreading literacy) compared with other computer-deprived countries such as Brazil and Mexico.

Table 6: Computer use at school and level of reading literacy (15-year-olds), Russia and selected countries,

                                 YOnever usingcomputer at school         YOat Level 3+ reading literacy
  Brazil                                          57                                  22
  Mexico                                          48                                  34
  Latvia                                          19                                  43
  Russia                                          37                                  43
  Hungary                                         10                                  52
  Germany                                         36                                  55
  Czech Republic                                  25                                  58
  us                                              13                                  61
  Australia                                        8                                  69
  Finland                                          6                                  79



Another indicator o f potential comparative advantage in skill-intensive products and services is Russia's
compressed dstribution o f wages by level o f education, shown in Table 7. The average wage o f a
university graduate is less than double that o f someone with no more than elementary schooling - a smaller
differential than inthe U S and many Western European countries and much smaller than in countries with
less developed education systems such as Thailand (where the comparable ratio was 3.16 in 1999).


  Educationlevel:                    Average wage per month (Rb.)         Ratio (Elementary = 1.00)
  Elementary                                       1,248                            1.oo
  Secondary basic                                  1,603                            1.28
  Vocational                                       1,685                            1.35
  Secondary professional                           1,591                            1.27
  University                                       2,320                            1.86




                                                     - 56 -

Table 8, from a different source and with different definitions, shows that compression o f earnings
persisted in 2001, although differentials were slightly wider for workers below the age o f forty than for
those intheir forties and fifties.




                                                           Age group (in years)
                                     15-29       30-39      40-49      50-59      60+      Total
   Basic                              1.oo        1.oo      1.oo       1.oo       1.oo      1.oo
   Secondary general                  0.84        0.97      0.87       0.98       1.oo      0.99
   Vocational (PTUs)                  1.54        1.06      1.05       0.95       1.35      1.37
   Specialized secondary              1.24        1.01      1.13       1.01       1.29      1.27
   Higher education                   1.99        1.64      1.44       1.41       1.77      1.82



Moreover, although wages o f I C T specialists within Russia compare favorably with those o f other workers
inthe same labor market, they are considerably lower than those inmost competitor countries, as Table 9
suggests. For example, the top salary for a webmaster inRussia in January 2002 was $12,000 and for the
head o f a computer department $24,000 a year - 25 and 29 per cent less, respectively, than the average for
their Indian counterparts o fmore thantwo years earlier.

 'able 9: Average annual software 1   bor cost con                   looo)                    -
                                      Switzerland USA       Canada   - -
                                                                     UK [reland Greece        [ndia    louth Africa
   Project leader                        90.0        65.6    47.4    47.4     52.3    35.1     33.7       34.4
   Business analyst                      89.9        46.0    43.8    45.0     43.8    41.0     31.0       37.0
   Systems analyst                       89.9        58.3    39.0    41.3     43.8    22.0     20.5       36.4
   Systems designer                      81.4        66.9    43.8    41.3     37.7    22.0     16.1       25.1
   Development programmer                68.0        49.8    35.3    35.3     25.6    19.0     11.7       31.7
   Support programmer                    68.0        45.0    31.6    30.4     25.6    22.0     11.7       18.7
   Network analyst/ designer             81.4        59.6    39.0    38.0     31.6    22.0     20.5       26.6
   Quality assurance specialist          86.3        60.8    34.0    40.1     35.3    22.0     20.5        ...
   Database data analyst                 81.4        60.8    39.0    26.7     35.3    35.1     24.9       26.4
   Metrics/ process analyst              89.9        58.3    35.3    37.7      ...    22.0     24.9        ...
   Documentatiodtraining staff           71.7        43.8    31.6    25.6      ...    22.0     11.7        ...
   Test engineer                         71.7        57.1    30.4    29.2      ...     19.0    11.7        ...

... not available.
Source: ILO (2001:Table 4.6).

Russia's combination o f a long tradition o f excellence in mathematics and science, a relatively high
proportion (by international standards) o f 'trainable' young educated people and low wages andcompressed
differentials puts it in a good position to leapfrog into new internationally competitive ICT-based sectors,
particularly production o f software for export, on a much larger scale than is at present the case. For this
purpose, however, it is important to ensure that natural resources and exchange rates are managed in
such a way as to avoid 'Dutch disease' - the name given since the 1970s to the negative impact o f a
windfall increase in foreign exchange earnings on the rest o f an economy. In an economy with Dutch
disease, a booming sector (in Russia's case oil and other mineral exports) attracts resources to itself and
bids up their prices, and pushes up the value o f the national currency - to the detriment o f other tradable
sectors. Russia's new ICT sector can only become and remain competitive if its unit labor costs in dollars
undercut those o f India and others in international markets, which implies a need for realistic exchange


                                                      - 57 -

rates as well as favorable trends inproductivity relative to wages.*

 * The World Bank's Russian Economic Report No. 4, in October 2002, is consistent with this interpretation. I t
argues that industrial growth has recently accelerated in the natural resource sectors and decelerated in domestic
manufacturing, and that real wages have grown muchfaster in the resource extracting sectors, which also account
for the bulk of industrial investment. "It appears that resources continue to be drawn into the most competitive of
Russian industries (natural resource exports), and to the public sector. If growth is to be sustainable, it becomes
even more urgent to create the conditions and institutionsfor diversifying the economy" (page 3).

Inaddition to nudgingthe economy ina new direction, the project itselfwill generate demand. The creation
o f resource centers in the regions, the programs o f ICT training for teachers and managers, the creation o f
teaching and learning resources for general and vocational education and the creative use o f distance
education will all add to the demand for ICT services. Growth in the number o f potential users will
stimulate demand for educational resources from Russianmultimedia enterprises, to the benefit o f sales and
jobs. As resources using 'reusable object' approaches are created and their quality improves, demand is
likely to emerge from the corporate sector, particularly for training and development resources that will
help them to improve their competitive position. The use o f distance education to deliver transferable skills
will stimulate demand for flexible, lifelong, vocational learning, with spin-offs for other sectors. And the
project should provide a further boost to local hardware design, assembly and sales, already benefiting
from the rural school computerization program.

The project will also pay attention to the distribution o f benefits. There are several issues here:
0    Schools inremote areas o f Russia didworse than others inthe TIMSS tests inmathematics and science
     in 1995 and inmathematics in 1999 (though not in science in 1999- maybe a reflection o f the small
     number o f such schools in the sample). Schools in rural areas did worse than urban schools in both
     years. Distance education as proposed in the project should help to narrow these gaps and also to
     diminishthe disadvantage o fdisabled children.
0    Pupils from more prosperous families are, as inother countries, at an educational advantage compared
     with others. One aspect o f this is the availability o f a computer at home. Theproportion of students
     who never use a computer at home is larger in Russia (71 per cent) than in any other country in the
     PISA sample. And Russian students who use a computer at home every day score 6% per cent better in
     the reading literacy tests than those who have no access to a computer at home. The project should help
     to narrow this gap.
0    As for gender, the performance o f girls relative to boys in the PISA tests was better inRussia in all
     three domains than the OECD average, as Table 10 shows. In fact, Russia was one o f only three
     countries inthe sample (Iceland andNew Zealand are the others) inwhich girls out-performed boys in
     mathematics. The project should help to translate this advantage into a better performance in digital
     literacy inwhich it can be presumed that girls tend to lag.

 Table 10: Difference in performance on the combined reading, mathematical and scientific literacy scales,
 by gender, 2000




 Source: OECD (2001:Table 5.la).


                                                         - 58 -

costs

Incomparison with thesepotential benefits, the government will spend the equivalent of about $147 million
duringthe project, o f which $100 million will be loan-funded and $21 million co-financed (other than by
tax remission). Replication o f the project throughout the federation would probably cost a further $1,128
million. Most o f these costs can be seen as the initial, development costs o f ensuring ICT competence
among teachers, but costs are likely to fall over time and the opportunity for cost recovery from the private
sector is likely to increase. Resource Centers will be ina good position to diversify their sources o f income.
And centrally organized teacher training programs will yield economies of scale. In so far as distance
education substitutes for boarding schools and enables remote rural schools to economize on specialist
teachers, it should contribute to a reduction in unit costs. Offsetting these savings will be the additional
runningcosts generated bythe shift to ICT-based teaching discussed inthe next section.

Fiscalimplications

The activities proposed by the project will have fiscal implications for the federal and regional
governments, both during and after the project period.

During the project

Part o f the cost o f the project (3 1 per cent) will be co-financed by the federal and regional governments, as
shown in Table 11. The bulk o f the co-financing will take the form o f remission o f taxes and duties on
goods and services purchased for the project, and thus will have only notional implications for government
budgets. Cash co-financing expenditures, almost all by the federal government and mainly for
new-generation learning materials, will amount to less than $1.8 million, and regional governments will
contribute a further $19.4 million in kind, inthe form o f equipment and network connections for Resource
Centers. However, there are further fiscal implications for regional governments, not shown in the table.
Recurrent costs o f Resource Centers (under sub-component 3.3) will be partially funded by regional
governments, at an estimated cost to them o f about $11 million over the project period, and they will be
responsible for the travel costs o f teachers undergoing training (under component 2), yet to be estimated.
Spread over seven regions and 3.5 years, the burden o f such funding, at less than $450,000 a year per
region compared with an average education budget for each o f around $129 million in 2001, looks
                                                                         1
tolerable.

Table 11: Co-financing by federal and regionalgovernmentsduringthe project, 2004-2007 (YOOO)

                                                                Federal                   Regional
                                                       Loan-
  Components                                          funded    T;;       (2;:                     [nkind    Total
  1. Learningmaterials
  1.1 Regulatoryframework                              242                                            0       306
  1.2 Digitallearning resources                        23311       4876       1174                    10     29400
  1.3. Testing& methodology                            4036        849        166                    250     5343
  2. Teacher traininginuse of ICT                                        I
  2.1 Regulatorydocuments                              420          89        23                      0       532
  2.2 Qualificationimprovement& support                22612       786        168                   8785     37539
  2.3 Instructionaldesign capacity                     2314        348        90    177               66     2996
  2.4 Trainingof futureteachers                        1603         0          0    417              160     2179
  3. ICT Resource Centers


                                                         - 59 -

  3.1 Management & planning                          1399      295       76      0        0          0      1771
  3.2 Resource center network                        17925     3736      11     738       0        7448    29857
  3.3 Support, advice, dissemination,distance        17737       0       0     4714       0        2681    25131
  3.4 Public awareness campaign                      840        177      45      0        0          0      1062
  3.5 Support of regionale-learningprojects          4500        0       0      1125      0          0      5625
  4. Project management                              3062      586       0       0        0          0      3648
  Total                                             100000     11793    1767   12402      28      19400    145389
Source: Project cost tables.

After the project

Ifthere is no second phase of the project, the entire costs of running the program inthe seven project
regions (including in-school costs which will begin to be incurred) will fall on the regional governments
from 2007 onwards. In addition, if the federal govemment decides to replicate the program throughout the
country, the costs o f dissemination and runningthe program inother regions will also fall on government.

Costs of runningthe program inthe seven project regions will include the following:
         the recurrent costs of Resource Centers, at an average annual cost per region o f around $1.2
         million. The Centers may eventually fade away or become self-supporting, but it may be wise to
         budget for them inthe immediate post-project period.
         continued teacher and management training (but not o f curriculum development and design o f
         materials, completed during the project), averaging per region around $0.4 million per year.

Inaddition, in-school costs will beginto be incurredas the programbecomes fully operational inthe project
regions, including the following non-salary costs:
         increasedcost o f maintenance and repair o f hardware;
         more frequent upgrading andreplacement o f hardware;
         increased software costs;
         increased costs o f paper, printer cartridges, disks etc.;
         increasedinternet traffic.

Some idea o f the likely scale of these costs can be gained from the Krasnoyarsk case study, included inthe
forthcoming sector study o n ICT in education inRussia. Krasnoyarsk has already embarked on a program
to introduce ICT into schools, and estimates its actual running costs inKrasnoyarsk city as follows:
         computer maintenance - around 5 per cent o f equipment cost, i.e. $50 per computer per year.
         upgrading of hardware -about 10per cent of equipment cost, i.e. $100 per computer per year.
         licensed software   -$500 per set (inpractice, pirated software is used to replace outdated installed
         software, at around $5 per set).
         supplies o f paper, printer cartridges, disks etc. - about $25 per computer per year.
         internet traffic - rangingfrom $40 per month for poor-quality dial-up access for 2 or 3 computers
         at a time to $300 per month for a dedicated channel.

These non-salary running costs o f the Krasnoyarsk ICT-in-education program are estimated at 1.6 per cent
o f the education budget o f the municipality. Comparable costs arising from the e-Learning project are likely
to be much higher than this: hardware will need more frequent upgrading, licensed software will be
universally used, the supplies budget will need to be higher, and internet traffic costs will be at the highend
o f the range: 4 per cent or more of education budgets may be a more realistic figure. Thus, the total cost
per region o f running the program in the seven regions after the project ends may amount to $2.5 million
for Resource Centers and teacher and management per training plus $5.1 million or more for in-school

non-salary costs = $7.6 million, or 6 per cent or more o f the average 2001 education budget for these
regions.

So far the costs o f replicating the project in the other regions o f the federation have not been considered.
These can be roughly estimated from the project cost table. Some activities would not need to be replicated
-for instance, the development ofnew generation learning materials, regulatory documents for teacher
training, curricula, resource-center models, grants to other regions for ICT promotion, etc. If these are
excluded, and project management is assumed to cost around 2.9 per cent o f the total, the package for each
region costs about $13% million. For the 82 regions not included in the project, this adds up to $1,128
million over 3.5 years, or $322 million per year - less than 5 per cent o f the total educational budget for
these regions. In addition, in-school non-salary costs o f 4 per cent or more o f the educational budget would
be generated.

Additional expenditures arising from the project will not necessarily have to be financed entirely from the
federal and lower-level government budgets. Krasnoyarsk, for instance, funds almost all expenditures on
supplies, internet traffic, maintenance, and additional payments to teachers and ICT assistants from
non-budget income. The federal targeted e-Education program envisages that almost a third o f its planned
expenditure o f Rb 56,000 million for 2002-2005 will be financed from extra-budgetary sources. A similar
proportion o f project-related expenses could in principle be financed by the private sector. However, a
change intax law relating to charitable contributions would be needed to improve the incentives for such
sponsorship. And even if fund-raising efforts were successful, the bulk o f the burden o f financing
non-salary project-related costs would still fall on government budgets. Given our relatively highestimates
o f the scale o f such costs, this means that there is likely to be little scope for any increase inthe proportion
o f such budgets available for salaries - around 40 per cent in2000 (see Table 15, below).

Teachers' salaries

This is worrying, given the project's aims to upgrade and'digitalize' the teaching profession andrecruit new
categories o f staff. Existing salaries are unlikely to be enough to attract and/ or retain people who have
acquired such marketable skills. Between 1989 and 2000 the average wage ineducation inRussia fell from
70 per cent o f the national average wage to 56 per cent. Inreal terms, the average wage ineducation fell by
more than 60 per cent in this period (Table 12). Teachers' salaries (currently ranging from Rb 450 to Rb
2,025 per month) are low in comparison not only with ICT professionals inthe private sector but also with
other private-sector employees who make some use o f ICT skills.


                        1989      1990    1991     1992     1993      1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999 2000
  Azerbaijan             100       107     64       41         6        17     16      22      24       27      29  31
  Armenia                100       99      89      116        57        15     11      14      22       26      36
  Moldova                100       105    102       72       45         35     35      40      39       39      30  29
  Russia                100        105    104       60        65        63     43      52       51      42      32  37
  Tajikistan             100       97      74       35        11         5     15      8        8       13      12  19
  Uzbekistan             100       99     101       120       54        42     46      50       51      53      50
  Ukraine               100        104     95        94       18        10     12      15       15      18      22  18



As a result o f these trends, teachers' morale has suffered. For example, the PISA study constructed a
teachers' morale index, based on the extent to which principals agreed with four statements relating to
morale o f their staff 'the morale o f the teachers in t h s school is high'; 'teachers work with enthusiasm';



                                                        -61 -

'teachers take pride inthis school'; and 'teachers value academic achievement'. As Table 13 shows, Russian
principals have a more negative view o f teachers' morale than the OECD average (though not as negative
as insome other transition countries).

Table 13: Index of teachers' morale, Russia and selected transition countries compared with OECD average,




   Russia                              -0.15
   Czech Republic                      -0.29
   Latvia                              -0.47

Note: Indices measure the extent to whichprincipals' responses differ from the OECD mean (standardized at zero
with standard deviation = one).
Source: OECD (2001:Tables 7.1, 7.4 and 7.9).

The low morale o f the teaching profession is reflected in the low proportion (relative to other comparable
countries) o f younger andhighproportion o f older teachers in schools. For instance, the TIMSS 1999 data
show that the proportion o f eighth-grade mathematics students with a teacher over the age o f fifty is
considerably higher in Russia (and in other transition countries)               than the average o f other
high-human-development countries (Table 14) and the proportion with an under-30 teacher is much
smaller. The proportion o f mathematics students with a female teacher is also higher on average in Russia
than in any other country in the sample - 93 per cent compared with 51 per cent in other HHD countries.
This is probably a reflection o f the relatively low labor-market mobility o f older women. Thus an increase
inteachers' salaries is inany case necessary to dealwithlow moraleandthe demographic distortions withm
the profession that are connected with it.

  'able14: Percent of Se grade mathematics itudents with teacher aged 50+ 1999
                                                 YOwith teacher aged 50+
   S1ovenia                                                 12
   Bulgaria                                                 21
   Latvia                                                   25
   Hungary                                                  26
   Lithuania                                                29
   Russia                                                   31
   Slovakia                                                 32
   Moldova                                                  33
   Romania                                                  42
   Czech Republic                                           43
   Macedonia                                                47
   Transition countries' average                            31
   HHDcountries' average                                    24



The extent o f the salary increase that might be needed to attract or retain teachers who are able to use
computers in the preparation and interactive deployment o f leaming materials can be judged from the
earnings premium for computer use, shown in Table 15. As can be seen, those in the top two education
categories (relevant to teaching) who use computers in their work earn between 40 and 89 per cent more
than those who do not. And the premium is particularly hgh for women, who represent the vast majority o f
the teaching profession.



                                                      - 62 -

[Yo)
                                    Male     Female
  Basic                             +55        +57
  Secondarygeneral                  -18         +1
  Vocational (PTUs)                 +25         +2
  Specialized secondary             +63        +74
  Higher education                  +40        +89



The scope for salary increases

The scope for finding funds to increase teachers' salaries depends, as Table I 5 shows, on:
        the rate o f growth o f GDP;
        the percentage o f GDPrepresentedby government revenue andhence expenditure;
        the share o f education inthe government budget; and
        the numbero f teachers.

Table 16 i s based on the current official targets for real GDP growth, which are ambitious but within the
range judged to be reasonable by the IMF (2002:84), andon the targets for public expenditure on education
as a proportion o f GDP set out in the State Council's statement o f educational policy (2001:Section 1.3).
Overall, both federal and local govemment revenues are expected to decline over this period in relation to
GDP, as a result o f lower oil prices, macroeconomic developments andlocal tax reform (IMF2002:90), so
these targets imply a considerable increase in the share of education in government spending (from about
10 per cent in 2000 to nearly 18 per cent in2006). As Table 16 shows, if the number o f teachers and the
proportion o f spending available for salaries remain unchanged, salary expenditure per teacher will double
inreal terms between2000and2006.




                                                              2000    2001    2002   2003   2004   2005    2006
 GDP at 2000 prices(Rb. bn)                                   7,063   7,416  7,735   8,114  8,552 9,031    9,537
 Growth rate (YO)                                                      5.0     4.3    4.9   5.4     5.6     5.6
 Public expenditureon education as YOof GDP                    3.0     3.3     3.6    3.9   4.2     4.5     4.5
 Public expenditureon education at 2000 prices(Rb. bn)        214.0 241.3     278.5 316.4   359.2 406.4    429.2
 Salaries as YOof educational expenditure                     39.9     39.9   39.9   39.9   39.9   39.9    39.9
 Numberof teachers (million)                                  3.64     3.64    3.64  3.64   3.64   3.64    3.64
 Salary expenditure per teacher at 2000 prices(Rb. '000)      23.5    26.5    30.5   34.7   39.4   44.5    47.0




However, the number o f school-age children i s falling. Between 2000 and 2006, as Table 1617
shows, the number inthe 3-17 age group as a whole is expected to fall by 24 per cent, with even larger falls
inthe casesofprimary andlowersecondary school-age children.




                                                     - 63 -

                                        2000       2006       YOchange
  3 - 5 (pre-school)                   4,097       3,777         -8%
  6 - 9 (primary)                      6,832       5,073         -26%
  10- 14 (lower secondary)             11,930      7,676         -36%
  15 - 17 (upper secondary)            7,298       6,518         -11%
  Total 3 - 17                         30.156     23.044         -24%
Source: calculatedfrom UNICEF, MONEE database.

The number o f teachers in primary education has been falling since 1995. There is now a demographic
opportunity to further reduce the number o f teachers at all levels. Table 17 18 explores the implications o f
a fall in the number o f teachers to match that in the number o f school-age children. As can be seen, this
would allow a 162 per cent increase in salary expenditure per teacher in real terms over the 2000-2006
period.


                                                             2000     2001     2002    2003     2004    2005   2006
Number of teachers (million)                                  3.64    3.51     3.36     3.22    3.08     2.93   2.78
Salary expenditure per teacher at 2000 prices (Rb. '000)      23.5    27.4     33.0     39.3    46.5     55.4   61.6



This would be a welcome development but, given the likely rate o f increase o f salaries outside the education
sector, may still not be enough to enable the education system to hold on to the new types o f teacher.
Flexible ways of attracting and retaining staff with ICT skills will therefore need to be explored at the local
level. Such staff could also be encouraged to undertake paid consultancy work, including the development
o fmaterials for Resource Centers and schools.




                                                     - 64 -

                                Annex 5: Financial Summary
                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNINGSUPPORT PROJECT
                                      Years Ending
                                      December 31


                         I Year1 I Year2    I Year3     1 Year4  IYear5  I Year6  I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs           15.4      45.0       48.4       33.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
 Recurrent Costs              0.3       1.2         1.1       1.o     0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          15.7      46.2       49.5       34.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
             Front-endfee     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Financing              15.7      46.2       49.5       34.0     0.0      0.0      0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                  10.9      31.4       33.7       24.2     0.0     0.0       0.0
  Government                  4.8      14.8        15.8       9.8     0.0     0.0       0.0
      Central                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
      Provincial              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers              0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries       0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
Other                         0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      15.7      46.2        49.5      34.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:




                                           - 65 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT

Procurement
Guidelines: The procurement o f goods (including related incidental services) and technical services under
financing from the Bank loan will follow the Bank's Procurement Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999. The procurement o f consulting services will be carried out in accordance with the Consultants
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002. For the procurement o f goods and technical services
under the Loan, the Borrower will use: (i)       the Bank's latest standard bidding documents for goods
procurement; as the case may be, suitably modified for the procurement o f technical services; (ii)       for
complex IT procurement,the latest standard or trial documents available; and (iii)     for the procurement o f
consultants services, the Bank's standard requests for proposals for the selection o f consultants.

Implementation: The implementation o f the project will be executedby the Ministryo f Education (MOE)
through the National Training Foundation (NTF) which will be responsible for overall project management
including procurement and coordination. The NTF has successfully implemented the Management &
Financial Training Project which closed in 1999 and is implementing the Education Innovation Project
(effective April 1998, closing December 2004) and the Education Reform Project (effective July 2002,
closing December 2006). Three years ago, the NTF was restructured to enhance its effectiveness as a
multi-project PIU. The presence o f an Inter-Ministerial Strategic Committee and an NTF Operational
Manualwill also facilitate good project management and implementation.

Procurement Capacity Assessment. A procurement Capacity Assessment has been carried out. The
capacity was found substantially satisfactory subject to the following recommendations which may mitigate
procurement risks:
         To hire 1-2 additional procurement specialists on a competitive basis (depending on workload in
case o f possible extension o f the Education Innovation Project) by project effectiveness;
                                                                 -
         To train procurement staff continuously using different possibilities (project launch workshop,
WB-organized training seminars, I T C ILO (Turin, Italy) courses, etc.);
         To update the Operational Manual - by project negotiations.

Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared for publication in Development
Business in August 2003, announcing goods and consultant services to be procured and inviting interested
eligible suppliers, service providers and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary
information. Specific Procurement Notices and Requests for Expressions o f Interest will be published at
later dates as the corresponding tender documents become available.

ProcurementMethods (Applicableto the FirstPhase of APL)

GOODS AND TECHNICAL SERVICES (USD31,l)

International Competitive Bidding (ICB)               (USD 21.4      million).     Computers       and related
telecommunication and office equipment for selected general and vocational schools, for pedagogical
institutions and for resource centers will be packaged for procurement following ICB procedures in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Since it is not supposed that complex IT systems will be procured,
Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement o f Goods, March 2002 or its successor document, will be



                                                     - 66 -

used. Inthe comparison o f bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, goods manufactured locally, if
any, will receive a preference inaccordance with Appendix 2 o fthe Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (USD 2.5 million) The NCB procurement method will be for the
procurement o f goods which, by their nature or scope, are unlikely to attract foreign competition. N C B
procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 0.3 million each to procure locally
developed educational software, comparatively cheap and easy-to-in maintain vehicles, and the publication
o f training materials. Interestedforeign suppliers will be allowed to participate inthese procurements. N C B
will be carried out in full accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines. Bidding for N C B
contracts will be based on the Bank standardbiddingdocuments and all such procurement will require prior
Bankreview.

International Shopping (IS) (USD 1.6 million). IS procedures will be used for contracts for setting up
collections o f digital information objects as well as for the procurement o f classroom and office fiuniture
estimated to cost less than USD 0.1 million each. International shopping procedures will be based on
comparing substantially responsive price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries, in accordance with BankProcurement Guidelines.

National Shopping (NS) (USD 1.1 million). Minor sundry items, small equipment, publication o f
developedmaterials o f small circulations, setting up collections o f tests not exceeding U S D 0.05 million per
contract may be purchasedon the basis o f prudent national shopping by comparing substantially responsive
price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers in accordance with Bank Procurement
Guidelines.

Direct Contracting (DC) (USD 4.5 million). Direct contracting will be used for the procurement o f
proprietary software, setting up collections o f unique digital objects and mediateques. Appropriate
justifications will be provided ineach case. Any direct contracting will require prior Bank approval.

CONSULTING SERVICES(USD36.9 million)

For the composition o f short lists, expressions o f interest will be obtained by advertisement inthe national
press for all consulting assignments and inthe UNDevelopment Business for contracts estimated at U S D
0.2 million and more. Short lists for assignments estimated below USD 0.2 million, or for specific
assignments where participation o f foreign firms is not appropriate or justified, may entirely consist o f
national consulting firms.

Contracts for Consulting Services will be packaged, whenever possible, to combine related skills and
services in order to: (i) them attractive and increase competition; and (ii)reduce the number o f
                            make
contracts to be managedby the NTF. The following methods o fprocurement will be followed:

Quality and Cost-based Selection(QCBS) (USD 1.6 million). QCBS procedures will be used primarily
for contracting consultant services related to the development and use o f digital educational data resources,
for the development and adaptation o f learning management tools, for the development o f digital
management system o f organization and support o f learningprocess.

Quality Based Selection (QBS) (USD 30.3 million) QBS procedures will be used for many assignments
such as those specified under QCBS where the selection o f government-owned entities is appropriate (see
below).



                                                      - 67 -

SelectionBased on Consultants' Qualification(CQ) (USD 2.1 million) CQ procedures will be followed
for smaller consulting services contracts related to simple legal, analytical, and appraisal assignments. The
procedure is used for those assignments where selection o f govemment-owned as well as the commercial
organizations i s appropriate. This method shall be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$
100,000.

Single Source Selection (SS) (USD 0.8 million) In justifiable cases, described in the Guidelines,
consultants may be selected without competition. Such contracts will be related to customizing proprietary
software, to the development o f curricula, to testing new teaching materials by educational institutions from
the eligible list, strategic planning issues, setting up interschool resource centers, etc.

IndividualConsultants (IC) (USD 2.1 million) Individual consultants will be hired in accordance with
Section V o f the Consultants Guidelines. I C procedures will be mainly used for contracting highly qualified
specialists for assignments related to simple analytical, reviewing and evaluation assignments. As far as is
practical, the hiring o f individual consultants will be transparent and positions will be advertised locally
and/or internationally depending on the requirements o f each position. Selection, where appropriate, would
be made upon comparison o f not less thanthree CVs.

HIRINGOF GOVERNMENT-OWNED ORGANIZATIONS

A considerable number of assignments under the Project adding upto anestimatedUSD 42 million concern
subjects where public education research institutes and educational establishments, subordinate or reporting
to the Ministry o f Education, regional and municipal educational administrations, as well as certain other
entities financed from federal, regional or municipal budgets, possess unique qualifications and experience.
Private sector expertise in this field is not well developed due to low profitability. At this stage o f the
project preparation, it has been possible to identify the following types o f assignments the results o f which,
ifgovemment-owned entities were precludedfromparticipation, would seriously decreasethe quality ofthe
Project implementation andwould threaten the achievement o f Project objectives:

1.       Development o f a regulatory framework for creating and using new-generation digital leaming
materials ineducation, training and teaching modules and materials;
2.        Setting up collections o f digital information objects for use in education, including acquisition o f
rightsand licenses.
3.       Development of special software and digitaltraining management tools;
4.       Creation o f innovative teaching and leamingmaterials inkey educational areas;
5.       Examinationand testing o f these materials inpractice;
6.       Rendering support to educational portal functioning;
7.       Teacher training inthe use o f ITC;
8.       Training o fpedagogical design specialists;
9.       Certification o f specialists inthe ICT field;
10.      Strategic planning for effective use o f ICT in education and monitoring development o f regional
I C T education programs;
11.      Development o f a network o f Interschool Resource Centers (IRC) in Project regions including
in-service training;
12.      Provision o f distance education services to isolatedremote regions.

Consultants for the above assignments would be selected under the QBS or CQS methods. Short lists will
be composed on the basis o f expressions o f interest submitted as a result o f GPN as well as SPNs for each


                                                       - 68 -

such assignment in the national press and, for assignments above the threshold specified in the Loan
Agreement, in the UNDB. Since the quality o f services will be paramount andprice will not be a factor for
evaluation, short lists may comprise both private and government-owned enterprises. Injustifiable cases,
single source selection will be used.

The organizations deemed most suitable for implementing the above mentioned assignments are scientific
and research institutes, state unitary educational organizations, state electronic materials and cinema
production organizations, state publishers, institutions o f culture, and all types and levels o f educational
institutions and interschool resource centers


TRAINING (USD 2.6 million) The training o f different categories o f specialists at both regional and
local levels and the dissemination o f developed materials will be conducted through seminars, workshops,
study tours and conferences. The financing will be used for covering travel, accommodation and
subsistence expenses for the participants. Training costs will also comprise tuition fees, premises rent,
lecturers' remuneration, office supply and training materials. Inmost cases a fm (or firms) will be hiredto
provide "logistics services" using procedures similar to NCB. All eligible local f m s (and foreign, if they
want) will compete by marginon the basis o f tentative annual traveheminar schedule. The training o f the
NTFstaffwill be funded from the operating expenses category.

GRANTS (USD 40.7 million) Grants will be awarded to educational institutions, regional educational
administrations, groups o f authors and individuals on a competitive basis in accordance with a procedure
acceptable to the Bank. The detailed description o f Grant awarding procedures will be agreed with the
Bankandspecified inthe Operations Manual under the project.

Grants to develop new digitalinformation objects, to create new training materials for primary, secondary
and vocational schools, to develop approbation materials and procedures for distance learning and to
develop methodology and training programs will be awarded to groups o f authors and individuals on a
competitive basis inaccordance with a procedure acceptable to the Bank.No single grant shall exceed U S D
10000.

Grants to develop collections and sets of new digital information objects, to create new sets o f training
materials and tests for primary, secondary and vocational schools, to create a series o f digital videotapes,
to provide approbation o f developed materials, conduct pilot teaching for distance courses, to develop and
run school-initiated ICT projects, and to develop methodology and training programs will be awarded to
state owned and commercial orwnizations, such as scientific and research institutions, professional
education establishments, teacher training and re-training institutions, electronic materials and cinema
production companies, publishers, regional unitary educational enterprises, general and initial vocational
schools, interschool centers, extra-curricular education establishments. N o single grant shall exceed U S D
100 000.

Grants to regional ICT education programs modemization and to develop unified telecommunication
infrastructures for interschool resource centers will be awarded to regional education administrations. N o
single grant shall exceed USD 4 500 000.

IncrementalRecurrentCosts. Operating costs estimated at USD 3.65 millionand associated with the
NTF staff salaries and social charges, rent, communication costs, translation expenses, office supplies,
annual audit, cost for travel, accommodation, subsistence and transport expenses will be subject to annual
detailed itemized approvals by the Borrower andthe Bank.


                                                     - 69 -

 Procurement methods(Table A)


                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)


                                                               Procurement Method'
Prks I
    Expenditure Category                      ICB                  NCB              Othe:            N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                             0.00            I                 I     0.00       I
                                            (0.00)                ("0:"0,            (0.00)           (E,I
2. Goods                                     21.40                 2.50              7.20             2.70          33.80
and Technical Services                      (17.40)               (2.00)             (6.10)           (0.00)        (25.50)
3. Services                                  0.00                  0.00              37.50            0.00           37.50
Researchand Development                     (0.00)                (0.00)            (28.10)           (0.00)        (28.10)
4. Grants                                    0.00                  0.00              40.70            25.70          66.40
                                            (0.00)                (0.00)            (40.70)           (0.00)        (40.70)
5. Front-end fee                             0.00                  0.00               0.00             0.00          0.00
                                            (0.00)                 (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Training                                  0.00                  0.00               2.60             1.50          4.10
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (2.60)           (0.00)         (2.60)
7. PIU Operating Costs                       0.00                   0.00              3.60             0.00           3.60
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (3.10)           (0.00)         (3.10)
   Total                                     21.40                  2.50             91.60            29.90          145.40
                                            (17.40)                (2.00)           (80.60)           (0.00)       (100.00)

   Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

   Column "Other" includes:
   1. Goods to be procured through IS, N S and Direct Contract procedures.
   2. Research and development to be procured through consultant services procedures.
   3. Grants awarded through procedures described above.
   4. Training services to be procured through agreedprocedures described above.
   5. NTF Operating costs, inlcluding staff salaries, training, technical assistance services and inremental operating
   costs
 Column N.B.F.includes services to be financed by the Government.




                                                          - 70 -

Prior review thresholds (Table 8)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




2. Goods                          300 and above                     ICB                             All
and Technical Services               Below 300                     NCB                              All
                                     Below 100                        I S                          None
                                     Below 50                        N S                           None
                                        anv                          DC                             All
3. Services                       Firms above 100                    h Y                            All
                                       h Y                            ss                            All
                                    IC above 50                                                 All (ifany)
4. Training                                                                                    Procedure and
                                                                                               all above 100
5. Grants                                                                                        Procedure
6. Miscellaneous

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: Estimated USD 88.99 million
                         Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:          High
      Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every six months
                                                                        (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                       post-review/audits)
Continuous procurement review by PAS inMoscow Country Office. Post review ratio: one infive
contracts.

"Thresholds generallydiffer by countryandproject. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                  -71 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT

FinancialManaeement

1. Summary ofthe Financial Management Assessment
The financial management capacity assessmentwas performedby the World Bank's financial management
specialist before negotiations. Below is the summary report o f the assessment.

Executive Summary. The NTF implemented the Bank projects inthe past andhas well developed internal
control procedures, accounting and reporting system inplace. The project funds flow includes flows from
IBRD, federal Government andlocal authorities. The internal policies relatedto IBRD, federal andregional
funds are drafted by NTF Funds flows procedures from local authorities have been developed. The project
will be staffed by the existing three NTF financial management staff and one specialist will be hired
additionally. The NTF staff is experienced with the Bank procedures. The format o f the FMRs was
developed and approved. The FMRs include: (a) statement o f sources and uses o f funds (b) a detailed
schedule for tracking disbursements against specific categories o f expenditures (c) physical output report.
NTF will submit the Bank with quarterly FMRs and annual audited FMR Inaddition to FMRs, the NTF
will submit to the Bank annual audited EntityIFRS reporting. The disbursement o f the IBRDfundswill be
through transaction- based Bank procedures, which include SA, SOE, direct payments, Letter o f Credit,
guarantees. The federal funds will be disbursed through a co-financed account managed by the NTF (PIU).
Local authorities contribution will include benefits-in-kind, which will be spent by local authorities directly
and cash contribution, which will be processed through NTF bank accounts and local authorities bank
accounts. The NTF will control this spending. The benefits in kind will be accounted on historical cash
basis.

Conclusion. Taking into consideration the assessment o f the financial management systems and processes
andthe assessment of risks and mitigating measures, the financial management arrangements for the NTF
as an Entity and for the e-Learning Support Project are considered capable o f satisfactorily recording all
transactions and balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding the entities' assets, and are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank. The NTF
financial management system is adjusted to meet the project peculiarities. The financial management
arrangements for the Project meet Bank requirements.




                                             Rating              Comments
1. Implementing Entity                         Satisfactory
2. FundsFlow                                   Satisfactory       FundsFlow scheme has been developed and
                                                                  approved
3. Staffing                                    Satisfactory       One specialist is to be hired after
                                                                  Effectiveness
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures          Satisfactory       Accounting policies have been developed
5. Internal Audit                              NA                 N o reliance placed on internal audit
6. Extemal Audit                               Satisfactory      IAuditor is to be engaged by Nov 30,2003
7. Reporting and Monitoring                  IISatisfactory      IFormat o f reporting has been developed and
                                                                  approved
8. Information Systems                         Satisfactory       Will be adjusted after effectiveness
OverallFinancial ManapementRatinp              Satisfactorv




                                                      - 72 -

Country Issues. The last CFAA conducted inthe Russian Federation was inJanuary 2001, and its results
were just recently finalized.    Pending the graduation o f the government's financial management and
procurement capacity and infrastructure to a level o f performance that would allow the World Bank to rely
on those systems, the CFAA recommended that fiduciary functions (disbursement, procurement, accounting
and reporting, and operational reviews) continue to be outsourced to specialized agencies. Such agencies
(possibly the successors o f today's Foundations) present the advantage o f utilizing skilled consultants and
reliable, suitable, and stand-alone computerized information systems. Based on the Bank's current audit
policy, the CFAA recommends maintaining current arrangements for the annual audit o f Bank-assisted
projects, which involve audit by private sector audit f m s competitively appointed among those
pre-selected by the Bank, in consultation with the MOF (9 f m s at present). In addition, the work
performedby the Accounts Chamber should also be reviewedby the Bank on a regular basis andtaken into
consideration in project preparation and supervision. The Accounts Chamber routinely performs
documentary reviews o f Bank projects because they involve intemational borrowing and the use o f budget
funds in the form o f counterpart financing. These reviews are geared mostly towards assessing the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness o f project expenditure and the prevention andor detection o f possible
waste o f resources and abuses.




                                                              were fully developed.
  5. Internal Audit                            NIA            Not available
  6. Extemal Audit                              M             The audit arrangementsare adequate.
  7. Reportingand Monitoring                    M             The format andtimeliness of reportinghas beendesignedand
                                                              approved. Inaddition to FMRs, NTF IFRSreportingwill be
                                                              produced.
  8. Information Systems                     I  M          IIIThe information system will satisfy business needs but
                                                              includes lack of securityandback up facilities.
  Overall ControlRisk                        I M
H-High            S - Substantial         M-Moderate                 L-Negligible or Low




                                                   -  73 -

Strengths and Weaknesses. The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project
financial management system include: (i)       the experience o f the P I U and its financial management staff o f
implementing similar Bank-financed project and satisfying Bank financial management requirements; (ii)
the unqualified audit reports and positive management letters issued by the PIU and project auditors; (iii)
sound internal control system within the P I U and (iv) positive results o f the Bank financial management
supervisions.

The weaknesses are: (i)     absence o f integrated information system, (ii) significant amount o f physical assets
will be distributed far away from regional centers, which increases complexity o f stock-taking procedures.
Weakness (i)will be mitigated by implementation o f the new financial information system soon aRer
project starts. Weakness (ii)will be mitigated by well developed internal control procedures, especially
stock take procedures.

Implementing Entity. As the purpose o f this project is to assist with the education modernization program
o f the Government o f Russia and with the orientation o f the educational system to the global information
society inline with the Government's e-Russia and e-Education Programs, the project will be managed and
co-coordinated at the Federal level.

The project will be managed by the existing MOE Strategic Management Committee composed o f Federal
Ministryofficials andsenior education managers from the participating Regions. Federal representatives
will be drawn from the Ministries o f Education, Economy, and Finance, as well as from the broader
professional community. At Regional level, representatives will be Ministers and/or Heads o f Education
Administration inparticipating Regions as well as members o f the professional community. This committee
will coordinate and link GOR e-Russia and e-education programs among all stakeholders.                  Its main
h c t i o n s include substantive project management as well as budget allocation o f financial resources among
project components andoverall control o f project implementation and project final outcomes.

A Project Expert Committee focused on e-learning will be established by the Project ImplementationUnit
 (PIU) -the      NTF - in order to provide the substantial evaluation o f educational projects under
 implementation, including project materials expertise and the development o f recommendations and
proposals for the Ministry o f Education Strategic Committee. The cost operating activities o f the NTF will
be component four o f the project.

 This component will provide resources to operate the project for a duration o f six years. These resources
 will consist o f (i) salaries; (ii)
                      staff              additional training for newly recruited PIU staff; and (iii)
                                                                                                    consultancies
 to assist with implementation at Regional level and to monitor and evaluate project outcomes. Inaddition,
 the costs o f annual audits, small office equipment and operating expenses such as communications and
 office supplies and travel o f PIU members will also be financed by the loan. Loan funding will be used for
 office space for the PIU.

 The NTF will conduct (on behalf o f the Ministry o f Education and/or regional education authorities)
 procurement exercises for the purchase o f goods, works and services under all project components in
 accordance with the established World Bank procedures based on a competitive selection process and
 contract signing with the winners. Considering that the overall project objectives are aimed at the reformof
 the education system in Russia, some o f the project assignments (such as the development o f new school
 textbooks and the training and re-training o f teachers in ICT use) will require expertise that may only be
 available in public education, training and research institutions, which should be eligible to participate in
 the competition for Bank-financed contracts for these services.



                                                        - 74 -

Funds Flow.

IBRD funds will be transferred by direct payments and SA replenishments. Letters o f Credit and IBRD
guarantees will also be used. There will be no FMR based disbursement. A Special Account (SA) will be
opened ina commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.After August 1998, the Bank and the Government o f
the RussianFederation have agreed that all project SAs will be heldin two state owned commercial banks.
See Disbursement Arrangements section # 4.15 for further details.

Federal financing will be part o f the Federal program called the Development of the Common Education
Information Space for 2001-2006 (E-Education).           The federal co-financing funds will be disbursed
through a standard procedure established by the Russian Government and Russian Budget Code.
Co-financing will be provided by the Ministryo f Education o f Russian Federation from the Federal budget
(including from the Federal program Development of the Common Education Information Space for
2001-2006 ) in accordance with the Project implementation agreement, signed between the Ministry o f
Finance o f Russia, Ministryo f Education o f Russia and the NTF. The estimated amount o f required federal
co-financing h d s will be finalized by mid 2004 and will cover all taxes related to federal level spending.
This co-financing mechanism will require the inclusion o f mandatory co-financing by years and sources in
the federal budget. The co-financing money will be budgeted for each year by the NTF, approved by the
Bank, Ministryo fEducation and Ministry o f Finance and included into annual country budget, which is to
be approved by the Duma. Once approved these monies can be withdrawn by the PIU through the Ministry
o f Educationby standardrequests to the co-financing separate account ina commercial bank. This account
i s fully manageable by the PIU. The expenditures made out of any funds will be made through standard
IBRDprocurement procedures. The PIUFinancial Director will be responsible for proper payments out o f
IBRDandco-financing hds.

Local authorities contribution will be as money contribution and benefits-in-kind contribution inproportion
o f 13% cash and 22% o f benefits in kind to total project spending. Benefits-in-kind will be paid by local
authorities directly, not through the PIU. The PIU will receipt documents from the regional bodies,
confirming expenses or value o f the benefits-in-kind for report preparation. The regional participation will
be controlled by the Ministryo f Education and the NTF, which will be allocate funds from one activity to
another. Being interested in the project, the Ministry o f Education may re-allocate regional funds from
other education activities to the project inthe case o f a shortfall o f regional funds. Cash contributions will
be by transfer o f monies to the NTF account in a commercial bank. The NTF will keep separate accounts
for each region. Cash contributions may also be through regional authorities bank accounts. These
expendtures will also be controlled by the NTF

Taxes will be paid inaccordance with the Russian Federation Tax Code. There will be other payments such
as customs duties, social payments, fines, etc The federal and local authorities will provide the NTF with
taxes and other payments made to federal and local budgets correspondingly.

Duringproject implementation, there will be numerous disbursement transactions totalling about USD 40.7
million through Grants, which will be awarded in accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Bank,
to regional educational administrations, educational establishments, groups o f authors and individuals to
develop unified telecommunication infrastructure, to create and implement new training materials,
programs, tests and information objects and innovative educational projects, to disseminate and discuss
results and achievements through conferences and workshops. It will be a contractual obligation o f each
specific body to perform specific work andreach a predefined measurable result for a predefined amount o f
money. The fulfillment o f the work will be evaluated by the technical committee o f the NTF following
approval by the NTF Head o f the e-LSP project division. The payment o f these Grants will be through


                                                    - 75 -

disbursement procedures mentioned above.




      The World Bank                                                   ....................................... i~...
                                                                                                                 ......  Special Account
                             ........,,.....,.........,,...).......




                                  ...,,, '(.....            SA replenishment I1
               USD Direct payment               ........................                                       II                       /   USDconversion  '




      RFMinistry of Education

                                                                                                                         Account RUR



            Ordersto allocate

                                        ,..' ...."
          RFTreasure                .,I




                      Requests for payments                                                                                11-------14- -11-1
                                                                                                                                      -        Activities controlled by the PIU
               b      Money transfers
Stuffing.  The NTF and Project financial department staffing is described inthe NTF Operating Manual.
At the time of the assessment personnel for all financial positions was chosen, and there was no current
need to hire additional staff. The financial department will include two disbursement specialists and two
financial management specialists. Out o f these four only one will be hired outside the NTF. The other three
will be transferred from other NTF Projects after closing. The education and work experience o f the all
existing staff seem to be adequate to the Terms o f Reference for the positions.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. The NTF performs accounting in RUR for statutory reporting in
the accounting information system Innotec on an accrual basis. Then data from Innotec is transferred to
M S Excel spreadsheets for the preparation o f the project andNTF (Entity) financial reporting.

The NTF has well-developed and approved procedures for accounting, internal control and document
turnover in the Operational Manual. The Operational Manual will be adjusted to the peculiarities of the
project.

Project reporting will include two financial forms and one form o f physical output inFh4Rs. FMRs will be
prepared on the cash basis quarterly. The draft format o f FMRswas developed and agreed with the Bank.



                                                                                                                - 76 -

The NTF will also report to the Ministry o f Finance and the Ministry o f Education and will produce the
financial reports required by statute and tax authorities. All these reports will have different formats and
therefore the Chart o f Accounts should be detailed enough to produce these reports.

Reporting and Monitoring. The participating entities will maintain separate financial records for their
partso fthe project and will ensure appropriate accounting for the funds provided

The NTF has demonstrated, in its previous projects, that it is able to prepare reliable financial statements.
However, there were following weaknesses in the information flows: (a)Excel based preparation o f the
financial reporting; and (b) 2) Delays in obtaining reports from participating regions. It has been agreed
that these weaknesses will be addressed by NTF soon after the project starts by: (a) Implementation o f a
new integrated information system; and (b) that no disbursement will be made through regional bodies, so it
will be strictlt necessary to obtain regional reports as all contracts will be signed with the NTF.

The PIU will report to the Bank using FMRs inUSD. The FMRs include: (a) a statement o f sources and
uses o f funds; (b) a detailed schedule for tracking disbursements against specific categories; and (c) a
physical output report. The FMR includes a breakdown per components and expenditure types with
comparison with budgeted figures. The draft format o f theFMR is developed and is acceptable for the
IBRD. The FMR will be prepared on a cash basis. The PIU will prepare periodic FMRs for each full
calendar quarter, and submit them to the Bank within 45 days after the end o f the reporting period. The
reliability o f such FMRs will be audited during the annual audit, and a separate paragraph will be included
intheproject audit opinion.

The FMR Guidelines suggest that inthe case where the project is implemented by a profit-oriented entity,
the project financial statements should be prepared using the accrual method. The P I U i s a non-for-profit
organization andtherefore can use the cash method o f accounting for project reporting.

The NTF implements several Bank Projects. Therefore a report o f the PIU as an Entity in accordance with
IFRS will also be produced on annual basis to control the financial viability o f the PIU. IFRS accounting
policy is developed andmeets minimumIBRDrequirements.

The PIU will also be responsible for the statute reporting inaccordance with national accounting standards
inRUR. Inaddition to reporting to the Ministry ofFinance andthe MinistryofEducation, the PIUwill
report to the Tax authorities

Information Systems. The NTF information system includesthe Innotec software package and M S Excel
spreadsheets. Innotec is used for statutory and project accounting, whereas M S Excel is used for the
preparation o f the project financial statements and IFRS reporting. The data is transferred to Excel by
collecting information from Innotec followed by manual input o f the data into appropriate rows. This
system is not perfect because this manual link leads to an increased risk o f error and an increased level o f
necessary reconciliations. Nevertheless, the whole system is able to produce the required reporting and
therefore does not require immediate change.

The PIU plans to implement one integrated information system for all areas o f accounting and reporting
and improve security and business continuity features o f the information system soon after the project
starts.

2. Audit Arrangements
InternaZAudit. There i s no Internal Audit function inthe NTF


                                                      - 77 -

ExternaZAudit. Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out inaccordance with the Audit
Policies and Practicesfor WorldBank-Financed Activities. The audit reports will be ina format in
accordance with the Intemational Standards on Auditing promulgated by the Intemational Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit reports will include a separate opinion on FMRs and NTF IFRS reporting.
The audited financial statements will be sent to the Bankwithin six (6) months o f the end o f the
Government's fiscal year.

Previous NTF audit arrangements were acceptable for the Bank. Audits were always carried out based on
a TOR reviewed by the Bank financial management specialists. The main issue o f the audit reports was the
delay in obtaining information from regions. The delay was caused by an increased number o f
sub-borrowers and was communicated to and agreed with the Bank.

The audit o f the project will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, on
standard ECA terms o f reference, and procured by NTF in accordance with the Bank procurement
guidelines, followed by issuance o f "No Objection" by the Bank Procurement department. One Auditor will
audit the Project andEntity.The Auditor for the project will be engaged byN o v 30, 2003.

The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank withm six months o f the end
o f each fiscal year and also at the closing o f the project. The first and final audits can cover up to 18
months The contract for the audit will be awarded during the f r s t year o f project implementation and
thereafter extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost
o f the project audit will be financed from the proceeds o f the loan, category 4 "Project implementation"
(subcategory Design and Supervision).




Audit Report                                           Due Date
NTFEntity IFRSaudit                                     Within six months of the end of each reportingperiod; the first
                                                        and the final audit can cover the period up to 18 months
FMR annual. Separate opinion onthe reliability of the   Within six months of the endof each reportingperiod; the first
FMRs submittedto the Bank and coveringthe fiscal        and the final audit can cover the period up to 18 months
year

The NTF and Project statutory reporting and operating activities are expected to be audited by Accounts
Chamber, KRU(regional audit body) and Tax authorities.

3. DisbursementArrangements
Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's transaction based procedures including SOEs, SA, Letters
of Credit and direct payments; FMR will only be used for the monitoring purposes.                     Supporting
documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be retained by the Borrower
and made available to the Bank duringproject supervision. Disbursements for expenditures above the SOE
thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating to those expenditures. There is
no plan to move to periodic disbursements.

After August 1998, the Bank and the Government o f the Russian Federation agreed that all project SAs
will be heldintwo state owned commercial banks. The NTFhas not yet defined the Bank inwhich the SA
will be opened. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments o f the SA will be sent to the Bank at least


                                                     - 78 -

every three months, or when the balance o f the SA is equal to about half o f the initial deposit or the
authorized allocation, whichever comes first.

Action Plan.
Actions                           lResponsibleparty         Completion Date
Project auditor engaged           bTF/Bank                1INovember30,2003


Financial Covenants. The following are the covenants relating to financial matters:

(i) NTFwillmaintainafinancialmanagement systemacceptabletotheBank. TheNTFfinancial
    The
statements, project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited statements
andaudit report will beprovidedto the Bank within six months ofthe end ofeach fiscal year.

(ii) addition,theNTFwillpreparethequarterFMRsandannualIFRSreportingandsubmitthemtothe
    In
Bank,within 45 days after the end o fthe reportingquarter for FMR, and 6 monthfor auditedannual FMRs
and IFRS reports. The reliability o f such FMRs and IFRS reporting will be certified during the annual
audit, and a separate paragraph will be included inthe project audit opinion.

(iii)Co-financing funds from the federal Government will be includedinto eachyear's Statebudget.
Federal funds will be available in a timely manner. Local authorities benefits-in kind contribution and
money contribution will be provided in a timelymanner. Local authorities will report to the NTF about
money spent on the Project.

4) Procurement will be inaccordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

Supervision Plan.      During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial
management arrangements in two principal ways: (i)      review the financial part o f the project's FMRs as
well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)  during
the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement
arrangements (including a review o f a sample of SOEs together with movements inthe Special Account) to
ensure compliance with the Bank'sminimumrequirements. The Bank-accredited Moscow-based Financial
Management Specialist will visit the project at least once a year.


 Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds o f the Loan would be disbursed inaccordance with the guidelines inthe "Disbursement
Handbook". The project has been designed to be carried out over a period o f42 months (3.5 years and is
expectedto be completed by December 31,2007. A period of six months would be allowed to complete
disbursements, with the Loan Closing Date of June 30,2008. Disbursement categories andpercentages to
be financed under each category are presented inTable C, as follows:




                                                   - 79 -

                                  Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds




                                                                          firms; 87% o f services o f individual
                                                                        foreign and local experts; 100%o f social

~

 Training                                               2.60                              100%
 Goods and Services under Grants                        40.70                             100%
 Operating Costs                                        3.10                     87% o f PIUsalaries;
                                                                               100%o f training expenses;
                                                                                100% o f social charges;
                                                                                   84% o f other costs

 Total Project Costs with Bank                         100.00
 Financing
                               Front-end fee            0.00                 To be financed by the Borrower

ITotal                                       I         100.00          I                                         I

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Statement o f Expenditure (SOE) procedures would be used for the following expenditures: (a) goods under
contracts costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each; (b) services o f consulting f m s under contracts
costing less than US$lOO,OOO       equivalent each; (c) services o f individual consultants under contracts
costing less than US$50,000 each; (d) all training related expenditures; and (e) operating costs, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

For these SOE expenditures ,detailed supporting documents evidencing payments to consultants and
suppliers will be kept at the NTFAccounting Department. These documents will be made available for the
required audits, as well as to the Bank supervision missions upon request. All other expenditures above the
SoE thresholds will be submitted on the basis of full documentation.

 Special account:
A Special Account wouldbe opened ina commercialbankacceptable to the Bank, andmanagedbythe
NTF. The InitialDeposit (Authorized Allocation) would be equivalent to US$8 million. However, the
Authorized Allocation would be limited to an amount equivalent to US$2 million untilthe aggregate
amount o f withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount o f all outstanding special
commitments equals or exceeds US$6 million. Payments made from the Special Account would cover
eligible expenditures under the project. Applications for replenishment o fthe Special Account will be
submitted monthly (or earlier as desired) or at least quarterly. The replenishment applications will be
supportedby the necessary documentation, the S A bank statement, and a reconciliationo f the bank
statement.




                                                     - 80 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT



ITime taken to prepare the project (months)     I       23                      I         28            I
IFirst Bank mission (identification)            I        07/01/2002             I         02114l2002    I
IAppraisal mission departure                    I        0410112003             I         03/17/2003    I
I Negotiations                                  I        0710112003             I         1211512003    I
b n n e d Date of Effectiveness                 I        06/15/2004             I         06101I2004    I

Prepared by:
MinistryofEducation, RussianFederation

National Training Foundaton


Preparation assistance:
No PHRD Grant or other Trust Fundswere usedfor the preparation of this project. The Government o f
Russia, through the Ministryo f Educationprovided substantial financial andin-kindresources.

Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
          Name                                           Speciality
 Mary Canning                            Program and Task Team Leader, Lead Education Specialist
 Isak Froumin                            Senior Education Specialist
 Shobhana Sosale                         Operations Officer
 Anahit Poghosyan                        Program Assistant
 Jonathan Pavluk                         Senior Legal Counsel
 David Freese                            Senior Finance Offcer
 Alexandre Roukavichnikov                Procurement Specialist
 Alexander Mizgunov                      Financial Management Specialist
 GrillVasiliev                           Researcher
 Karl Skansing                           Sr. Procurement Specialist




                                                  -81 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan

Project ImplementationPlan

B. Bank Staff Assessments

Social Assessment
FinancialManagement Assessment (inprogress)
Procurement Assessment (inprogress)
Fiscal Analysis
Economic cost-effectiveness analysis


C. Other
E-Learning Policy to Transform Russian Schools,April 2003 (World Bank Report)
ExistingRussian digital educational resources anddemand for them ( Russianworking document)
Current capacity for professional training anddevelopment inthe area of ICT for pedagogic staff (
Russiancounterpart analysis)
Russianexperience inthe area o finstructional design and instructional designers training ( Russian
counterpart analysis)
Current experience inthe field o f distance support for education, including existing Russian language
educational Intemet resources and legal and regulatory framework ( Russian counterpart analysis)
Current capacity and experience o f existing educational ICT resource centers ( Russian working
document)
Intemational experience o f instructional designers training and fimctioning.  (Russiancounterpart
analysis)
Labor market assessment including legislative practices ( Russian counterpart analysis)
Coordinationof Russian ICT in education initiatives ( Russian counterpart analysis)
ICT ingeneral and initialvocation education: issues o f equal access to education inIrkutskOblast (
World BankAnalysis)
ICT ingeneral and initial vocation education: issues o f equal access to education inKrasnoyarsk krai (
World Bank Analysis)
ICT ingeneral and initial vocation education: issues o f equal access to education in Moscow ( World
BankAnalysis)
*Including electronic files




                                                   - a2 -

                                    Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                         RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNINGSUPPORT PROJECT
                                                   27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                             Difference between expected
                                                                                                                      and actual
                                                        Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                           IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO64237     2003 TB/AIDSCONTROL                      150.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00   150.00        2.90      0.00

PO46497     2003 HEALTHREF IMP                        30.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    30.00        2.25      0.00

PO66155     2003 TAX ADM 2                           100.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    99.00        1.00      0.00

PO72960     2003 CUSTOMSDEVT                         140.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00   140.00        0.10      0.00

PO69063     2003 ST. PETERSBURGECON DEVT             161.10       0.00                   0.00    0.00   161.10        0.00      0.00

PO64508     2002 TREASURY DEVT                       231.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00   227.87       -0.18      0.00

PO50489     2002 FISCFED8 REG FISC REF               120.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    59.50       19.50      0.00

PO46061     2001 MOSCURBTRANS                         60.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    45.77       31.60      0.00

PO50474     2001 EDUCREFORM                           50.00       0.00                   0.00    0.15    47.84       24.02      0.00

PO08832     2001 MUNWATER 8 WW                       122.50       0.00                   0.00    0.00   118.52       62.17      0.00

PO38551     2001 MUN HEATING                          85.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    73.45       18.72      0.56

PO64238     2001 N RESTRUCT                           80.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    76.40       31.35      -1.02

P058587     2000 REGFISCTA                            30.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    18.67       16.12      10.26

PO53830     2000 SUST FORESTRYPILOT                   60.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    58.89       37.39       3.91

PO50487     1999 STATESTATSSYST                       30.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00    21.oo       17.00      14.27

PO46496     1998 SOC PROTIMPL                         28.60       0.00                   0.00    0.61     4.04        4.65       0.53

PO08814     1997 HEALTHREFORMPILOT                    66.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00   33.69       33.15       0.00

PO50891     1997 ELEC SECTR REF                       40.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00   28.07       28.07       1.03

PO08825     1997 EDUCINNOV                            71.00       0.00                   0.00     3.00   22.07       21.08      -3.27

PO44200     1997 BUREAUOF ECON POL                    22.60       0.00                   0.00     0.00    2.64        2.64       2.34

PO08831     1996 LEGALREFORM                          58.00       0.00                   0.00     0.50   20.20       20.69      20.69
P008800     1996 ODs CONSMPPHASEOUT(GEF)               0.00       0.00                  60.00     0.00    3.78        9.67       9.73
P036973     1996 ENT HOUSINGDIVST                    300.00       0.00                   0.00   165.74   55.32      221.06      -0.97

PO42622     1996 CAP MRKTDEV                          89.00       0.00                   0.00    33.75   20.90       54.65      20.90

PO45622     1996 COAL IAP                             25.00       0.00                   0.00     0.00    4.67        4.67       4.67

PO08821     1995 ENV MGMT                             110.00      0.00                   0.00     0.00   44.64       44.64      44.64

PO08828     1994 FININSTS                            200.00       0.00                   0.00   105.62   17.04      122.66      50.76

PO08839     1994 ENTERPRISESUPPORT                   200.00       0.00                   0.00    80.00   56.41      136.41      45.40

PO34579     1994 LAND REF IMPLSUPPORT                  80.00      0.00                   0.00     0.00    10.76       10.76      4.81

                                            Total:  2739.80       0.00                60.00    389.37   1652.23     978.74     229.25




                                                       - 83 -

                                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        June 30 - 2003
                                      InMillions US Dollars


                                                       Committed                        Disbursed
                                                      IFC                             IFC

FY Approval    Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
2001           ProbusinessBank                  0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    5.00   0.00
2003          RZBRussia                       80.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  20.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998lOll02     Ramstore                       30.00     0.00     10.00   30.00  20.00   0.00    10.00  20.00
2003           Ru-Net                           3.00    3.00      0.00    0.00   0.50   0.75    0.00    0.00
2001103        Ruscam                          10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00  10.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
               Russ StndardBnk                  0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
2002           Russ Tech Fnd                    0.00    0.98      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.98    0.00    0.00
1995           SCF Restructured                 0.00    1.10      0.00    0.00   0.00   1.10    0.00    0.00
0              Sonic Duo                      30.00     0.00      0.00   10.00  30.00   0.00    0.00   10.00
2002           Stav. Broiler                   15.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
2003           SwedwoodTichvin                  7.46    0.00      0.00    0.00   7.46   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002           UralTransBank                   10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2003           Volga-Dnepr                     10.60    0.00      6.30   13.00   7.46   0.00     6.30  10.24
2001           ZAO Storaenso                    7.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1998102        OMGC                             7.17    0.00      0.1 1   0.00   7.17   0.00     0.11   0.00
2001           AgroIndFinC                      5.00    0.50      0.00    7.50   0.00   0.50     0.00   0.00
2002           Alpha Cement                     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996198        Aminex                           0.00    0.12      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.12     0.00   0.00
0197199        BCENEurobank                   100.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2003           BVF                              0.00    14.91     0.00    0.00   0.00   7.54     0.00   0.00
2001           Baltiski Leasing                 1.78    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.78   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002           Borsteklo                       28.70    0.00      0.00    0.00  28.70   0.00     0.00   0.00
1998102        Campina                          3.59    0.00      0.00    0.00   3.59   0.00     0.00   0.00
1999           Center-Invest                    1.60    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.60   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002           DLV                              0.00    0.60      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.60     0.00   0.00
1999           Delta Credit                    30.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002103        Delta Leasing                   10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   10.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
2002           Egar Technology                  0.00     1.50     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.50     0.00   0.00
2002           First N I S Fund                 0.00    0.15      0.00     0.00  0.00   0.15     0.00   0.00
1995           Framlington Fund                 0.00    3.97      0.00     0.00  0.00   3.97     0.00   0.00
1994           IBS                              0.00    0.00     12.00     0.00  0.00   0.00     8.00   0.00
2002           ICB                             10.00    0.00      0.00     0.00  10.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
2002           Ikea MOS                        15.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  15.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
2000           KMBBank                          7.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  3.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002           MoscowNarodn    ...            100.00     0.00     0.00     0.00 27.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2003           Mosenergo                       13.49     0.00     0.00     0.00  13.49  0.00     0.00   0.00
1998           NBD                              5.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  5.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002103        NMC                              2.21     0.00     0.00     0.00  2.21   0.00     0.00   0.00
2001           NRC                              0.00     1.50     0.00     0.00   0.00   1.50    0.00   0.00
1995
                      Total Portfolio:        543.60   28.33      33.41   60.50 223.96  17.71    29.41  40.24



                                                    Approvals PendingCommitment

FY Approval   Company                             Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999          DLV                                  0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00



                                              - 84 -

2003    Deltacredit Bank              0.03  0.00    0.01  0.00
2001    FordRussia                    0.06  0.00    0.00   0.06
2003    Intercell Russia             0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002    KME3Bank                     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2003    NBDn                         0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003    Quadriga Capital              0.00  0.00    0.02   0.00
2002    RSBI1                         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2002    Serpuchov                     0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00
2003    Vneshtorgbank                 0.00  0.20    0.00-  0.00

        TotalPendingCommitment:       0.10   0.20   0.03   0.06




                                 - 85 -

                                                Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT

                                                                   Europe &   Lower-                                                 I
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                          Russian  Central  middle-
                                                       Federation      Asia  income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                                144.1     476     2,411                    Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           2,140    2,160    1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                             308.4    1,030    3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population (%)                                                -0.4      0.1      1.o
Labor force (%)                                                0.5      0.4      1.2      GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                          per                                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                     capita                            nrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverfy line)            25
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                          73       63       49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                 65       69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                         13       25       30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                        11            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source I%ofpopulation)               99       91       81
                                                                                                                                     I
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 15+)                               2        3       13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)            98      102      111          -Russian       Federation

    Male                                                                103      111                Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                              101      110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1982     1992      2001     2002
                                                                                           Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                           442.1    309.9    346.5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                                  34.6     22.0     21.1                         Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                             62.3     36.3     34.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                    48.7     34.8     31.8                           T
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                     44.0     33.2     30.5

Current account balancelGDP                                     0.1    11.2      9.5
Interest payments/GDP                                           0.1     2.5      2.0
Total debVGDP                                                 24.4     49.7     46.0
Total debt service/exports                                      2.7    14.6     12.3
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                       16.9     47.3     43.8
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                 136.1    123.2    120.6     I                Indebtedness
                                        1982-92 1992-02      2001      2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                Russian Federation
GDP
_ _                                                 -0.6        5 0     4.3      5 2     I    -
GDP per capita                                      -03         5 6     4 8      5 7               - Lower-middle-incomeWOUD
                                                                                         I



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                    1982     1992      2001     2002       Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(99of GDP)                                                                                 100
Agriculture                                                     7.4     6.5      5.8
Industry                                               ..     43.0     35.6     33.8        50

   Manufacturing                                                                             0
Services                                               ..     49.6     57.9     60.5       -50

Private consumption                                           37.5     48.9     51.3      -100
General governmentconsumption                          ....   13.9     16.3      16.9     1
Imports of goods and services                          ..     48.3     23.5     24.0                 -GDI            -GDP            I
                                                 1982-92   1992-02     2001     2002     1Growth of exports and imports ("A)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                               1
Agriculture                                                    -0.4    11.2       1.6     40

Industry                                                       -1.4     6.0      3.5
   Manufacturing                                                                          20

Services                                                        0.1     3.2      5.4
                                                                                           0
Private consumption                                             2.2     9.0      8.6
General governmentconsumption                                   0.1     -1.7     2.4     -20

Gross domestic investment                                      -9.5    16.5       1.7
imports of goods and services                                   2.4    18.0      19.1




                                                                   - 86 -

                                                                                              Russian Federation

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982      1992    2001    2002     Inflation (%)                                    \
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                               100

Consumer prices                           ..    1,324.0   21.5    15.8      75

Implicit GDP deflator                     ..    1,490.4   17.8    15.2      50

Governmentfinance                                                           25
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                         0
Current revenue                                   43.6    36.4    37.0                97    98     99       00       01    02
Current budget balance                    ....      2.5     7.5     2.5             -GDP       deflator   - 0 ' C P I
Overall surpius/deficit                   ..       -5.0     3.1     0.0

TRADE
                                        1982      1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                        ..   53,803  101,615 107,247   125,000
 Crude oil                                 ..    9,911   24,563 28,772
 Natural gas                                     8,500   17,766  15,897   100,000

 Manufactures                              ....  4,100   11,156  10,900     75,000
Total imports (cif)                                      56,740 63,020      50,000
 Food                                                     3,137  10,300
 Fuel and energy                                          1,000   1,000     25,000

 Capital goods                                           14,145  16,700  I       0
                                                                                     98   97   98     99             01
Export price index (1995=100)                                                                                 w
                                                            104     103
Importprice index (1995=100)                                124     126                    Exports            Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                    04      82

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982      1992    2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                               Current account balanceto GDP (Oh)

Exportsof goods and services               ..   53,083  112,328 120,289   20  T

Imports of goods and services              ..   48,915   72,769  83,077
Resourcebalance                            ..     4,968  39,559  37,212

Net income                                 ..    -4,500  -3,958  -4,072
Net current transfers                                      -759   -332

Current account balance                    ..      468   34,842  32,808

Financingitems (net)                                332 -22,363 -21,637
Changes in net reserves                    ....   -800  -12,479 -11,171

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)              4,531  36,622  47,793
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           ....4.30E-2     29.2    31.4

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982      1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                              Composition of 2002 debt (US$mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       ..   107,680 153,993 159,500
  IBRD                                                0   7,062   6,737    1
  IDA                                                 0       0       0               G:16.036   A 6,737C:  6,481

Total debt service                         ..     1,475  17,351  15,532
  IBRD                                                0     739     764
  IDA                                                 0       0       0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                           ..     2,867
  Officialcreditors                        ..     1,844  -3,344  -4,075
  Private creditors
                                                                                 F 77.6
  Foreign direct investment                ..       700     -64    -862
  Portfolioequity                                     0    -653   1,098

World Bank program
  Commitments                              ..       600     200     608     A IBRD
                                                                               -                                E Bilateral
                                                                                                                   ~


  Disbursements                                       1     378     229     B IDA
                                                                               -        D Other multilateral
                                                                                         -                      F Private
                                                                                                                  -
  Principalrepayments                                 0     355     526     C-IMF                               G Short-term
                                                                                                                    -
  Net flows                                           I      23    -296
  Interestpayments                                    0     385     230
  Net transfers                                       1    -361    -535




                                                       - 87 -

  Additional Annex 11: InstitutionalAssessment and Implementation Responsibilities
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT

An institutional assessment was undertaken during project preparation to determine whether the National
Training Foundation (NTF) [which was selected through a competitive basis to be the Project
Implementation Unit (PlU)] has adequate capacity to implement the Project and, ifnot, to identify activities
that would help develop the capacity.

The assessment was conducted by the e-Leaming Support Project preparation team based on a series o f
questions:

(1)      Have the project preparation working groups adequately analyzed the work involved in
implementingeach component o f the proposedproject?

The project preparation workmg groups provided meticulously detailed analytical reports to help optimize
project design as well as to assess realistically, the resource and time implications for implementing each
component. Each working group drew up a detailed implementation plan, assessedresource implications,
costs, andperformance targets. Plans and reports were widely discussed with the professional communities
at several workshops involving local and intemational expertise. Due to the nature o f the project with
regard to new concepts and new terminologies, as well as to grasp new ideas relating to electronic learning
issues, related software and hardware issues, the working groups were careful in formulating component
objectives, outputs, outcomes, and performance indicators. Significant capacity was built through project
preparation.

(2)      I s it clear which organizational unit in the Ministry o f Education will be responsible for managing
each o f the project components?

The Ministry o f Education has determined that its Strategic Committee (established by the Order o f the
MinistryofEducation, andmade up of senior education executives from Federal andRegional levels) will
be responsible for the management o f the project. Key departments o f the Ministry, including Department
o f information technologies in education, Department o f licensing, accreditation and attestation,
Department o f education development, Department o f initial vocational education, Department o f standards
and curriculum o f vocational education, Department o f standards and curriculum o f general education will
be represented in the Committee. Membershlp o f the Committee will be expanded to include e-learning
specialists from Federal and Regional levels. As the apex body, the Committee will provide the necessary
policy and strategic decision-malung support for project activities and outcomes; the Committee will also
assure substantive project management, adequate budget allocation, and overall control o f project
implementation and final outcomes o f the project.       The involvement o f regional representatives in the
Strategic Committee will help to ensure that project outputs and outcomes are coordinated through Federal,
Regional and local levels.


(3)      Does the NTF have a clear and adequate organizational home for all its key functions?

The NTF is an established, independent legal entity. It has its own charter, and is managed by a Board o f
Directors which comprises representatives o f key ministries involved in education projects (Ministries of
Finance, Economy, Education, and Federal Center for Project Finance). The Ministry o f Education has
appointed the NTF as the responsible agency for coordinating and implementing project activities. The
NTF will report to the Strategic Committee o f the Ministry o f Education.               The basis for NTF's



                                                      - 88 -

responsibilities will be an implementation agreement signed with the Ministries o f Finance andEducation.

(4)      Does the NTF have the appropriate units and managers for coordinating the project components?
Will the managers be able to effectively lead and manage their units, and the project components assigned
to them? Based on the analysis o f the work to be accomplished, does each unit have the appropriate
number o fpersons with the rightmix o f skills to implement the component(s), inaddition to carrying out its
routine work?

Inorder to coordinate andimplement the project, the NTFwill supplement its Project Department with a
Project Director, and with additional Program Coordinators to manage each o f the project sub-component
activities. The NTF will have expert committees for each project component to provide extemal assistance
for project coordination and implementation.       A detailed description o f the roles and responsibilities,
reporting lines, and functions o f the expert committees are being prepared. A list o f components by
management responsibility is included in this annex. As the PIU, the NTF has independent units and unit
heads for each o f the procurement, accounting, and financial management functions.           The financial,
procurement, and monitoring and logistical support units are headedby experienced staff. The responsible
personnel are willing to accept the responsibility for implementing the project, and are committed to the
project objectives. NTF will handle, on behalf o f the Ministryo f Education each o f the following aspects:
(a) procurement in accordance with World Bank procedures and sign contracts for goods, works and
services; (b) disbursement o f project funds in accordance with the Loan Agreement provisions and
categories within approved budget for each financial year; and (c) maintain books o f accounts and
accounting records in accordance with the legislation o f the RussianFederation, as well as IBRDrules and
procedures.


(5)      H o w efficient and effective are current management practices inthe NTF?

The NTF has implemented three World Bank project-the           Management and Financial Training Project
(Project ID: PO08826 from 1995-2000), the Education Innovation Project (Project ID: PO08825 from
1997-2003), and Education Reform Project (Project ID: PO50474 from 2002-2006).            In 2001 NTF was
restructured to meet the World Bank requirements for implementation o f education projects.            NTF
personnel are therefore fully conversant with both World Bank and the Russian Federation's regulations
and procedures. Management skills andpractices inthe NTF have strengthened over time. For each o f the
financial years the NTF has received unqualified audit reports. The NTF has an established operational
manual that has been approved by the Bank and adoptedby the Boardo f Directors.


(6)      Has the NTF developed a detailed implementation planfor each component? Does the planreflect
efficient and effective work practices?

The NTF has prepared detailed implementation plans, and is reviewing and refining the plans, andphasing
the project costs and procurement accordingly. In the context o f project implementation state owned
enterprises will play a large role since the capacity to deal with materials developmentlproduction and
teacher training largely resides in public institutions. Exceptions will need to be made during project
implementation for state owned enterprises to be eligible to participate inbids for contracts.

(7)      Based on the analysis o f the work to be accomplished, is it clear that the Ministry will provide
counterpart funds to implement the project, and that arrangements are inplace to ensure that the funds will
be available?

The assessment of the availability o f counterpart funds shows that the Government o f Russia is fully


                                                     - 89 -

committed to supporting the project. The project is an integral part o f the e-Russia and e-Education
long-term programs focusing on improving the infrastructure for information, communications technologies
and puttingcomputers inschools.

Based on the work done, the Bank team has concluded that the NTFhas the core capacity to implement the
Project. The attached table outlines the project components, sub-components, objectives and the roles and
responsibilities o fvarious institutions.


(8)      What is a capacity for implementation o f the project activities? What institutions are likely to
participate intenders for procurement o f goods, works, and services?

    Main consultancy within the project are:
         Educationresearch
         Development o f legal and regulatory framework
         Creation o f education software anddigital learning resources
         Creation of teaching and learning materials for students andteachers
         Piloting andexpertise o f teaching and learning materials
         Training o f educators

    Main goods procurement within the project are:
         I C T equipment
         Software
         Office equipment
         Licenses for unique digital informational objects and software.
         Publishingandprinting
         Logistic services

There is no procurement o f works planed for the project

The NTF has a good backgroundo f organizing and performing competitions for most o f activities proposed
by the project. Many activities similar to the proposed ones were conducted within the Education
Innovation Project and Education Reform Project (for instance, creation o f education software,
development o f teaching and learning materials, training o f educators, publishing and printing, logistic
services, including organization o f workshops). A great deal o f analytical work (research) was performed
under both projects. Development of legal and regulatory framework i s not a routine assignment for NTF.
However the Foundation has an experience on contracting consultants for developing regulatory framework
for establishing boards o f trustees ineducational institutions and for educational statistics.

The NTF is experiencedinprocurement o f all types of goods planed for the project.

Taking into account the main types o f activities planed for the project it is proposed to allow State-owned
as well as non-State organizations to participate in some tenders for procurement o f services. Traditionally
inRussia (and inmany other countries) the main scientific, pedagogical andhumanresources capacity for
providing educational services is concentrated inpublic institutions. The main types o f such institutions are
organizations o f general and professional education and training (universities; schools) and research and
development organizations (research institutes, academies). Very limited number o f private organizations
involved in performing education related services could participate in tenders. It is especially true for
regions outside o f Moscow city. There is almost no capacity outside o f public sector for performing such
activities as education research, development o f legal and regulatory framework, creation o f education


                                                     - 90 -

software and digital leaming resources, creation o f teaching and leaming materials for students and
teachers, piloting and expertise o f teaching and learning materials, teacher training. The main types o f
public institutions capable to perform these activities are:
.. General educational institution (schools)
     Institutions o f initial and secondary vocational education
.    Institution o f higher education (universities)
.    Institutions o f extracurricular general and vocational education
.    Out-of-school training center for students
..   AcademyAJniversityhstitutefor teacher training
     Regional public institutions for educational services.

There is a sufficient national and international capacity (private companies) for goods procurement,
including I C T equipment, software, office equipment, publishing and printing, logistic services. However it
i s common practice then copyright for informational objects that have educational value belong to museums
and libraries (which are State-owned). These State-owned institutions are very likely to be single source for
such procurement.




                                                       -91 -

                                                                                                 htcomes
Sub-component            Outputs                                        Outcomes                 mplementation Roles
                                                                                                 md Responsibilities
1. Learning Materials                                                                            dOE Strategic
                                                                                                 danagement Committee
                                                                                                 'IUExpert Committees
1.1:                     Draft regulations to facilitate the use o f    tegulations which        yiOE Strategic
Regulatory               digital informational resources in             mable the education      danagement Committee
framework o f            education in the Project regions,              lector to adjust to the )nregulatory issues
e-Leaming                specifically including:                        iuman capital needs o f  'IUExpert Committees
[These activities will     Technical standards for the creation o f     he the emerging          'rofessional
need to be completed     digital educational materials,                 Olowledge Economy.       lssociations
before the end o fthe      Metadata standards and procedures                                     tegional representatives
first phase o f the      appropriate to Russian educational
project. The majority   contexts,
of actions should          New and adjusted Job descriptions for
ideally be completed     education workers responsible for ICT in
during the first year]   different parts o f the national education
                         system,
                           Draft standards for ICT enhanced
                         teaching and learning (including
                         professional and financing standards)
                            Revised occupational safety and health
                         regulations for ICT use in education.
                            Other necessary regulatory documents
                         for the effective use o f ICT in schools.
1.2:                     1.2. 1 Development o f collections o f digital 4 pool ofresources of    PIUExpert Committee for
Development and          informational objects for general and          iifferent levels o f     iigital leaming resources
management o f digital   initial vocational education                   sophistication which     :-Materials developers
leaming resources                                                       3ermit constructivist    reachers and administrators
[These actions will      The following actions should be underway       Ipproaches to education
need to be established   at the end o f the first phase:                ising digital resources
during the first phase   1. The creation and maintenance of a           md communication
o f the project. The     comprehensive list o f informational objects   :echniques.
majority o f actions     reflecting the requirements o f the general
should be continuously   and initial vocational education curricula,
operating by the end o f 2. The collection o f digital copies o f
the first phase]         unique informational sources, made
                         available to general and initial vocational
                         schools throughout Russia,
                         3. The development o f original
                         informational resources also reflecting
                         curricula requirements but not available on
                        the open market,
                        4. The development of a range o f
                         sophisticated leaming products,
                         5. An establishedprocedure for the
                        metadata tagging of objects and materials,
                         and
                         6. Procedures for adding the objects and
                        materials createdunder this project to the
                        digital resourcerepository established


                                                            - 92 -

                         under the Government o fRussia's
                         e-Education program.


[A range o f             1.2.2 Development o f digital applications   Educators have access     ?IU/Expert Committee for
applications should be   and tools                                    to sets o f applications  iigital learning resources
identified early inthe                                                suitable for use in       ?-Materials developers
first phase o f the      The following actions shouldbe underway      educational contexts.     Zopyright holders o f
project. A continuous    at the end o f the first phase:              The education system      nformation sources
evaluation process       1.A range of general and specific software   inRussia will be          3ther groups concerned with
should be inplace        applications will be identified and licensed responsive to new         standards for digital
before the end o f the   for use by general and initial vocational    software developments     naterials-libraries,
first phase]             institutions and IRCs                        by continuously           nuseums, etc.
                         2. A process will be developed for           evaluating the            qational archive institution
                         monitoring new software application          relevance o f such        reachers and administrators
                         developments and existing software           developments to the       ?-Materials developers
                         upgrades.                                    needs o f the education   Resourcecenters
                         3. A process will be established for         sectors.
                         evaluating new software application
                         developments and existing software
                         upgrades and making recommendations to
                         the Government o f Russia regarding these
                         potential acquisitions
[At the end o fthe first 1.2.3 Development o f learning               The establishment o f a   PIUExpert Committee for
phase there should       management tools                             pool o f people with      digital learning resources
exist evidence o f the   A range of digital managementtools           experience in             Teachers and administrators
analysis and             suitable for use in general and initial      developing digital        e-Materials developers
understanding o f the    vocational institutions and IRCs.            management tools for      Resource centers
implications o f using                                                use in education
digital tools for        Analysis o f the implications o f managing   systems. An
managing educational     educational institutions and systems using   understanding o f the
processes throughout     digital tools should be underway at the      implications o f
Russia]                  end o f the first phase:                     developing large-scale
                         Interschool telecommunications,              educational
                         1. Distance learning approaches,             management systems
                         2. Schedule creation,                        that may be needed if
                         3. Documentation management,                 RussianEducational
                         4. Managing student information              sectors are to be
                         (including enrolments, progress and          responsive to changes
                         reporting)                                   driven by a dynamic
                                                                      Knowledge Economy.
[These materials         12.4 Development o f innovative teaching     The establishment o f     PIUExpert Committee for
will be                  and learning materials inkey educational     a sustainable capacity    digital learning resources
progressively            areas                                        to design, produce,       e-Materials developers
developed during                                                      distribute, evaluate      Subject specialists
the first phase. For     A range o fmaterials for students and        and improve digital       Pedagogical institutes
some materials,          teachers, reflecting the majority o f        learning materials.       Teachers and administrators
they will have           curriculum areas offered by the Russian                                Resource centers
passed through           education system and reflecting the various
evaluation and           delivery methodologies used(face-to-face,
improvement              distance, self-education, extra-cunicular,
cycles]                  etc).

                         The following actions should be underway



                                                           - 93 -

                        at the end o f the first phase:
                        1.Involvement o f the Russian Multimedia
                        industry as well as IRCs, Pedagogical
                        Institutes and teachers in the development
                        o fmaterials.
                        2. Completion o f materials in all basic
                        subjects and the most important
                        educational modules, as well as areas that
                        have a cross-curriculum application,
                        3. Completion of versions o f the
                        cumculum packages for general and initial
                        vocational education, and
                        4. Distribution of materials to all general
                        and initial vocational institutions, IRCs
                        and Pedagogical Institutes.


1.3:                    User evaluations in regard to the materials  A quality assurance     PIUExpert Committee
Testing new teaching    produced and procedures developed during     process will be         ?-Materials developers
and leaming             the first phase ofthe project.               established which       reachers and administrators
materials and                                                        involves a range o f    Resource centers
developing              The following actions should have been       typical users o f the
methodologies for       completed by the end o f the first phase:    materials and
using them              1.the development of evaluation              procedures developed
[These protocols will   procedures based on educational              by the project.
be progressively        effectiveness indicators;
developed duringthe     2. the provision of selected general and
firstphase. Some        initial vocational institutions within and

passed through          necessary equipmentto conduct testing,

and improvement         testing leaming resources designed for
cycles]                 distance and extra cumcular education
2. Teacher traininginthe Educationaluse of ICT                                               MOE Strategic Management
                                                                                             Committee
                                                                                             PIUExpert Committee on
                                                                                             teacher training in the use o f
                                                                                             ICT
                                                                                             Regional representatives
2.1:                    A range o f regulations and guidelines       A regulatory            MOE Strategic Management
Regulatory framework    pertaining to pre-service and in-service     framework,              Committee
o f teacher training in teacher training, qualifications,            conforming to best      PIU/Expert Committee on
the use o f ICT         employment and support o f teachers inthe    national and            teacher training in the use o f
[The development and    use o f ICT in education will be established worldwide practice,     ICT
implementation o f this by:                                          which underpins the     Teacher education
sub-component should    1. establishing a quality management         development and         institutions (pre-service and
be finalized by during  system for teacher pre-service and           maintenance o f         in-service)
the first phase]        in-service training                          high-level ICT skills
                        2. introducing a system o f requirements     ineducation workers
                        reflected in regulatory documents,           throughout Russia.
                        specialty certificates, etc for the
                        certification o f education workers in the
                        application o f ICT (including teachers,
                        methodologists and education managers,



                                                           - 94 -

                       staff o f higher education and vocational
                       education institutions, staff of teacher
                       training institutions, graduates o f
                       pedagogical universities)
l.2:                   2.2.1 Basic ICT competencies for teachers     vianagement staff at    'IUiExpert Committee on
mprovement o f                                                       rarious levels trained  eacher training inthe use o f
eachers'               Teachers o f general and IVEtrained in the    o introduce and to      CT
palifications and      area o f basic ICT skills and development     ;upport ICT in          tegional and local education
;upport o f teachers'  of basic competencies to use ICT in           :ducation and their     iepartments
ictivities in          teaching. A set o f training and              nanagement activities.
:omputerization o f    methodologicalmaterials as well as a
chools                 unified training program produced and
,The development       about 200,000 teachers inproject regions
md implementation      and some other regions trained and
ifthis                 certified inbasic ICT skills.
;ub-component
;hould be finalized    2.2.2 In-service training of the education
luring the first       management staff
ihase]
                       Managers trained to apply management
                       techniques appropriate to the use o f ICT in
                       educational settings.

                       The following actions should be
                       implemented as soon as possible inthe
                       first phase:
                       1. training programs and materials
                       developed and delivered for senior and
                       mid-level administrators responsible for
                       the regional and local education system,
                       2. training o f senior and mid-level
                       administrative staff inall participating
                       regions,
                       3. on-going support inplace for senior and
                       mid-level administrative staff inthe
                       participating regions,
                       4. provision o f consultancies (via Intemet,
                       conferences, workshops and through
                       publications inthe specialized pedagogical
                       press) for management staff in all regions
                       o f Russia.


[These programs will   2.2.3          In-service training of staff  A capacity andbody of    PIUiExpert Committee on
beprogressively        o f the general and initial vocational       materials to permit the  teacher training inthe use o f
developed during the   schools                                      training o f in-service  ICT
first phase. Some will                                               staff throughout Russia GOR (Regional
have passed through    Training programs and materials will be      to enable the            Governors-Regional
complete evaluation    designed and applied by:                      application o f ICT     education ministries and/or
and improvement        1.the development o f training programs       techniques inkey        departments)
cycles]                materials for the improvement o f skills o f  cumculum areas.         National Duma (Regional
                       school team members,                                                  Dumas-educational
                       2. the development o f programs, training                             committees)
                       and materials for school subject teams in                             e-Materials developers



                                                          - 95 -

                       main subject areas using digital training                              Resource centers
                       resources,                                                             Pedagogical
                       3. the distribution of developed training                              presdnewspapers
                       programs, training and methodological
                       materials to IRCs to extend this training
                       effort locally,
                       4. the development of programs, training
                       and materials for teachers o f distance
                       learningheaching,
                       5. support o f network associations o f
                       teachers involved in introducing ICT in
                       education process (including via
                       Intemet),
                       6. the provision o f advice for general and
                       vocational school workers (administrative
                       and teaching staff) on issues pertaining to
                       the materials and methods o f training
                       developed under the project.
                       A targeted number o f instructional design   Russiawill establish a    PIUExpert Committee on
Development o f        experts trained to intemational standards    sustainable capacity to   teacher training in the use o f
instructional design   through the following actions:               design and develop        ICT
capacity               1. employing intemational expertise to      highquality                e-Materials developers
[The actions shouldbe  train a leading team o f instructional       instructionalresources    Higher education institutions
completed early in the design experts,                              based on                  Regional and local education
first phase]           2. the development o f programs, training    intemationally            departments
                       and methodologicalmaterials to train         recognized standards      Resource centers
                       instructional designers (including the       o f instructional design. Pedagogical presdnewspapers
                       staff o fprivate companies, methodologists
                       and teachers and students inPedagogical
                       Institutes, and
                       3. the provision o f advice (including via
                       Intemet, inthe course o f nation-wide
                       workshops, through publications inthe
                       pedagogicalpress) for representatives o f
                       all regions o f Russia about issues o f
                       instructional design.
                       Developedand tested pre-service teacher      The introduction and      PIUExpert Committee on
Pre-service teacher    training programs for the effective use o f  maintenance o f           teacher training in the use o f
training               ICT ineducation by:                          practices inteachers'     ICT
[The actions should    1.the development and testing o f student    universities to           Teacher education institution:
becompleted before     training programs in 6 subject areas in 7    effectively train future  (pre-service)
the end o fthe first   higher education pedagogical institutions,   teachers inthe use o f    Resource centers
phase]                 2. the development and pilot testing o f     ICT intheir future
                       student training programs in instructional   work.
                       design in 7 higher education pedagogical
                       institutions
                       3. the organization o f extensive
                       discussions o f the developed materials
                       and results o f their field-testing among
                       Drofessionals




                                                           - 96 -

3. Development of a Network of InterschoolResource Centers                                        "JExpert Committee on
                                                                                                  iesource centers
                                                                                                  iegional and local education
                                                                                                  iepartments
                                                                                                  relecommunications
                                                                                                  Iepartment experts
3.1:                        Management plans for the installation      The creation o f medium    MOE Strategic Management
Strategic Management        and ongoing management o f IRCs by:        md long term               Zommittee
and Planning                1. Developing strategies at Federal,       nanagement plans to        ?IUExpert Committee on
[The planning actions       Regional, Municipal and Institutional      :reate conditions for the  Resourcecenters
should be completed         levels for the establishment and           :ffective use o f ICT in   Regional and local education
before the beginningo f    maintenance o f a network o f IRCs,         xder to achieve the goals  iepartments
the first phase and final   2. Developing procurement, installation    Ifthe Russian education    relecommunications
plans accepted within       and training plans to permit the speedy    nodernizationprogram.      Department experts
the first 3 months o f the  establishment o f centers.
commencement o f the
project]
3 2:                        The establishment o f not less than 200    4 capacity to sustain the  PIUExpert Committee on
Establishing                IRCs throughout the regions selected for   ievelopment o f teachers   Resource centers
Interschool Resource        Phase One o f the project. This will be    nregions ofRussia in       Regional education
Center networks             achieved by:                               :heir use o f ICT in       departments
[The actions should         1. development models for the supply o f   :ducation, to support      Regional resource centers
be completed before         equipment to three types o f IRCs          students by providing      Other regional groups with
the end o f the first       (regional, extended and basic),            iccess to resources and    training capacity and
phase]                      2. mapping the placement o f regional      support and to support     experience
                            IRCs,                                      local communities in       Vendors
                            3. making appropriate amendments to        :heir use o f ICT.
                            regionalregulatory frameworks to
                            establish IRCs,
                            4. selecting IRCpersonnel,
                            5. the initial training o f IRC personnel,
                            6. supplying equipment to IRCs in seven
                            participating regions,
                            7. the connection o f IRCs to the Internet
3.3:                        An established educational information     A functioning              MOE Strategic Management
Systemic support to the     environment that provides a range o f      network o f                Committee (approval process
introduction o f ICT in     support systems through IRCs               resource centers,          for DL courses)
general and initial         (collaboratively and/or individually) to:  providing access           PIUExpert Committee on
vocational education on     1. establish a training system for         to training,               Resource centers
the basis o f a network o f teachers and advisors at all schools in    resources and              Resource centers (including
IRCs                       participating regions,                      wpport inthe               intemet and technical
[These programs will be 2. establish a hot-line service to support     use o f ICT in             maintenance support)
progressively developed    teachers and advisors intheir use o f       :ducation.                 Teacher training institutions
duringthe first phase.     hardware and software,
Some will have passed       3. provide Internet support for a site
through complete            sponsored by regional teaching
evaluation and              communities,
improvement cycles]        4. organize events to promote teaching
                            experiences and initiatives involving the
                           use o f digital learning resources in
                            education,
                            5. establish free access to the



                                                             - 97 -

                          mediatheque(library of cd-roms) o f IRCs
                          for both leamers and teachers,
                          6. establish distance education services
                          to extend access to a full curriculum to
                          students at local schools limited in their
                          ability to offer a broad curriculum,
                          7. the installation and on-going support
                          for internet sites o f distance education
                          services (in regionalresource centers),
                          8. establish approval processesfor new
                          distance leaming courses,
                          9. initiate interschool telecommunication
                          educational projects,
                          10. promote the development o f teaching
                          initiatives in the area o f e-learning,
                          11. establish a functioning network o f
                          IRCs,
                          12. conduct regular workshops develop
                          regional strategies for the introduction o f
                          ICT,
                          13. Monitor project achievement inthe
                          regions,
                          14. Conduct continuing professional
                          development programs for IRC staff.


3.4: Development o f      Materials produced and distributedto         Professional andpublic      PIU/all Expert Committees
public support and        increase professional and public             awareness o fthe Project    Resource centers
awareness                 awareness o f the modernizationprogram       andextensive                Pedagogical
[These programs will be by:                                            participation o f all       presshewspaperslother
progressively developed   1.preparation and publication o f            relevant parties (students, media
duringthe first phase.    materials on the introduction o f ICT in     parents, teachers,          (TViradio     and     other
Some will have passed     education,                                   businesspersons) inthe      broadcasting services)
through complete          2. coverage o f regional, district and       discussion and              Research organizations
evaluation and            individual school practices to all regions,  implementationo f the       Regional     and      local
improvement cycles]       including those not directly involvedin      Project activities.         education departments
                          the Project activities,
                          3. establishing on-going
                          Internet-publications and disseminating
                          information to print and broadcast mass
                          media,
                          4. studying and reporting changed
                          perceptions resulting from the
                          introduction o f ICT.
3.5: Support o f regional
e-learning projects       Enhanced introduction o f ICT into the
                          education systems o f Russianregions
                          other than the first seven (participating in
                          the first phase) and additional regions
                          prepared for participation in the second
                          phase o f the project.




                                                             - 98 -

. Project  Management                                                                               'roject Implementation Unit
                                                                                                    PIW
These actions should be Management procedures, plans and                A high quality project      bfOE Strategic   Management
ndenvay at the              information, conforming with the national management approach and Zommittee
eginning of the first       objectives for the modernizing o f the       reporting system that      ?IU/Expert Committees
hase with reporting        Russianeducationsystemby:                     ensuresthe co-ordinationof
ycles completed             1.forming a Project Implementation Unit project goals inaccordance
ccording to the agreed      (PIU)                                        with national and regional
tandards at the end o f the 2. maintaining financial and accounting      strategic objectives.
irst phase]                records in accordance with Russian and
                            Internationalstandards, preparing for
                           audits and reporting,
                            3. disbursing loan funds in accordance with
                           the World bank procedures and Russian
                           legislation,
                           4. developing procurement plans, handling
                           procurement o f goods, works and services,
                            including tender documentation
                            preparation, evaluation reports, contract
                           preparation,
                            5. project monitoring and planning,
                            co-ordination o f inter-project activities,
                            6. providing legal, logistical and other
                            technical support.




                                                               - 99 -

     Additional Annex 12: Letter of Sector Policy
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT




                         - 100-

-101-

                  Additional Annex 13: Government`s Modernization Program
                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION: E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT


                                                            Approved by the Government o f the Russian
                                                            Federation (Protocol # 44,25.10.2001)

Concept ofModernizationof RussianEducationfor the periodupto 2010

1.        ROLE OF EDUCATION INTHE DEVELOPMENT OF RUSSIANSOCIETY

The role o f education at the contemporary stage o f the country's development is determined by the goals o f
Russia's transition to a democratic society, a law-based state, market economy, and goals aimed at
overcoming the danger ensuing from the country's falling behind world tendencies o f economic and social
development.
Inthe contemporary world the significance of education as a major factor forming a new quality both of
the economy and the society as a whole is growing. The Russian education system will remain competitive
with the systems o f education of advanced countries, should the implemented national education policy be
widely supported by the public, the responsibility o f the state be restored and its active role maintained, and
should education undergo an all-round modernization andnecessary resources be provided and mechanisms
o f their effective use created.

The current priority o f Russia's education policy is to ensure an up-to-date quality based on the
maintenance o f the fundamental character o f education, and its response to the current and future needs o f
individuals, the society andthe State.

The given Concept carries forward and specifies the major principles o f the contemporary education policy
o f Russia, set down the RF Law "On Education", the Federal Law "On Higher and Post-graduate
Professional Education" and the National Doctrine o f Education o f the Russian Federation embracing the
period up to 2025, the Federal Programme o f the Development o f Education for 2000 - 2005. The
document is closely connected with the "Major Guidelines o f the Long-Term Social and Economic Policy
o f the Government o f the Russian Federation, expanding and supplementing them. At the same time the
Concept identifies priorities and measures to implement the general strategic line for the coming ten years,
namely that o fthe modemization o f education.

1.1.      RussianEducationandTendencies ofWorld Development

Reflecting the national interests in the sphere o f education and making them public internationally, the
education policy takes into account general tendencies o f world development conditioning a need to
introduce major changes inthe system o f education, such as:
0    accelerated pace o f the society's development, its democratization, extended opportunities of political
     andsocial change, all o fwhich call for raisingthe citizens' level ofreadiness for making choices;
0    transition to a post-industrial information-based society, and considerable intensification o f
     cross-cultural interaction, which pushto the forefront factors of communication and tolerance;
0    emergence and growth o f global problems which can be resolved only as a result o f cooperation within
     the framework o f the international community and require up-to-date thinking on the part o f the
     younger generation;
0    dynamic economic growth, increased competition, a shrinking demand for unqualified and



                                                    - 102 -

    low-qualified labour, and profound structural changes in employment require continuing professional
    development, upgrading o f vocational andprofessional qualifications and re-training o f employees and
    an increased occupational mobility;
0   growing role o f human capital which accounts for up 70-80% o f the national wealth in developed
    countries, requires accelerated and anticipatory development o f education, both for the young people
    andadults.

The domestic system o f education has a serious role to play in maintaining Russia's place among the
world's leading nations and its international prestige as a country with developed culture, education and
science.

Of special significance is the development o f fruitful cooperation and maintenance o f the common
education space with the CIS states and educational support o f compatriots outside Russia.

1.2.     New Social Requirements to the Russian System of Education

School (inthe broad sense o f the term) must become a major factor in the humanization o f social and
economic relations, and formation o f the individual's attitudes to life.

A developing society needs well-educated, moral and entrepreneurial people capable o ftaking independent
decisions in a situation o f choice and anticipating their consequences, people who are cooperative, mobile,
dynamic, constructive and ready for cross-cultural interaction and who possess a sense o f responsibility
for their country and its social and economic well-being. The system o f education must prepare people
both to live ina civil society and a law-based state, andto contribute to buildingthem.

At the current stage o f Russia's development education is becoming an ever more powerful force o f
economic growth, effectiveness and competitiveness o f the national economy which makes it a key factor o f
national security and the well-being o f the country and all its citizens. Education has to use its potential to
consolidate society and maintain its social and cultural integrity, to overcome ethnic tensions and social
conflicts proceeding from the priority o f human rights, equity o f ethnic cultures and confessions and
restriction o f social inequality.   Russia's multi-ethnic school is yet to demonstrate its significance in
consolidating and fostering the Russian language and other mother tongues o f its citizens, in forming
Russian consciousness and self-identity. Modernized education will play a key role in consolidating the
nation and its genetic fund and in ensuring a sustainable dynamic development o f Russian society as a
society characterizedby highliving standards, civil, legal, occupational and every-day culture.

The system o f education must ensure that young people have equal access to quality education addressing
their interests and aptitudes, irrespective o f the family income, place o f residence, ethnicity, health, and it
must use all available levers to give social protection to children andteen-agers left without parental care.
Another goal is to form a professional elite, by identifying and providing target support to most gifted
children andyoung people.

Ina situation o fpriority support o f education on the part of the state the system o f education must ensure
an effective use o f its resources, be it human, information, material, or financial ones.

1.3.     The Situation in the Russian System of Education and a Need to Modernize the Latter

The state, political, social and economic changes o f the late 80s    -early 90s had a considerable impact on
Russian education introducing academic autonomy o f higher education institutions, diversity o f types o f


                                                      -103  -

educational institutions and curricula, as well as in the development o f Russia's multi-ethnic school, and a
private sector in education. These processes have been reflected in the RF Law "On Education" and the
Federal Law "On Higher and Post-graduate Education". However the systemic social and economic crisis
o f the 90s substantially slowed down the positives changes. The State, to a large extent, withdrew from
education, leaving the latter to survive on its own, often without due regard to the actual needs o f the
country. Today education can no longer remain intemally isolated and continue on its own.

Outdated and overloaded content o f school education does not equip general school leavers with
fundamental knowledge and such major components o f the new age's education standard, as mathematics
and information science (including skills to seek and select information), Russian and foreign languages,
basic social sciences and humanities (economics, history and law). Vocational education, in its turn, i s not
yet capable o f resolving the problem o f personnel shortages resulting from new requirements to the
qualifications o f employees. At the same time a big number o f VET graduates fail to find employment and
their place in the contemporary economic life. In a situation of economic stratification the above
weaknesses o f the education system have been aggravated by an unequal access to quality education
conditioned by the family income.

Today educational institutions get only 2540% o f the estimated norm-based funding from the budget. In
VET andespecially inhigher educationthis lack of funds is partly made up from non-budgetary sources in
the form o f paid education services, while general schools have practically no opportunity to attract
supplementary funding.
As a result, the shortage of funds ineducational institutions (inreal terms) amounts to 50-60%.

At the tumingpoint o f its development Russia must resolve its urgent social andeconomic problems not by
economizing on general andvocational education, but by ensuring its accelerated development which must
be viewed as investment in the country's fbture and involve participation o f the state and society,
enterprises, organizations and citizens, that is - all parties concemed with quality education..

Inthis context anaccelerated growth ofeducation expenses, incomparisonto other areasfinanced from the
budget, must be ensured, educators' salaries must grows and enhanced incentives must be designed to
foster quality and efficiency o f their labour.

Education must become attractive to investors, both enterprises and individuals, its organizational and
economic mechanisms must be modemized. Implementation o f the above will allow to raise the volume o f
non-budgetary funds in education from 1.5 to 2.2% o f the GDP, and cardinally improve the use o f these
funds, channeling them directly to educational institutions.

In a situation o f the estimated demographic slump the cohort of students will reduce by about 1/3, which
will create a situational reserve for the system's internal resource maneuver aimed at rationalizing the
network o f general education institutions, supporting innovative schools and other points o f growth in
education.

Measures o f the State support o f education will go hand-in-handwith strengthening the role o f the State
power and governance bodies and due to a broad public participation, will ensure a highup-to-date quality
in the work o f educational institutions and organizations, irrespective of their forms o f ownership, and a
systematic analysis o f prospective labour market needs.




                                                       - 104 -

1.4 Goals andObjectives of ModernizingEducation

Modernization o f education is a political and nation-wide goal and as such cannot be carried out as a
ministerial project. Interests o f the society and the State in the field o f education do not always coincide
with sector interests of the system of education itself, hence the areas o f education modernization and
development of education cannot rest only with the educational community and education ministry.

All Russia's citizens, families and parents, the State and its federal and regional institutes, local
self-government bodies, the professional teaching community, research, cultural, commercial and public
institutes, that is all parties concemed with the development o f education, must become active stakeholders
o f the education policy.
The central goal o f education modernization lies inthe creation o f mechanisms o f sustainable development
o f the education system, that would ensure formation o f a holistic scientific picture o f the world and a high
quality o f education, adequate to the challenges o f the XXI century, social and economic needs o f the
country's development, educational needs of individuals, the society and the State, and are based on the
forecasts o f the labour market development.

To achieve the set goals the following interrelated priority objectives must be achieved
0    state guarantees o f equal access and equal opportunities to obtain quality education mustbe provided,
0    new up-to-date quality o fpreschool, general andvocational education mustbe achieved,
0    effective norm-setting, legal, organizational and economic mechanisms must be formed to attract and
     dispense non-budgetary resources,
0    the social status and professionalism o f educators must be raised, and their statutory and public
     support enhanced,
0    education must develop as an open state-and-public system based on a divided responsibility o f the
     stakeholders o f the education policy, and an enhanced role o f all actors o f the academic process, be it
     the student, teacher, parent or educational institution.

An up-to-date education policy must rest on socially identified targets and balanced social interests. The
education modemization goals can be achieved only through a continuing dialogue between the system o f
education and representatives o f the national economy, science, culture, health service, all concemed
departments and public organizations, parents and employers, and take into account regional experience
andlocal conditions o fthe education development.

Education modemization affects practically every family in Russia. The essence o f educational change, its
goals, vectors and methods must be communicated to the population on a regular basis, public opinion
must be closely analysed by education administration bodies and leaders of educational institutions and
takeninto account duringthe modernization process.

2.       EDUCATIONPOLICY PRIORITIES

2.1.      Provisionof State Guarantees ofAccess to Quality Education

The Constitution o f the Russian Federation guarantees the citizens the right to education. However in the
current complicated social and economic situation these guarantees are not always observed in the full
measure. The government o f the Russian Federation will undertake to ensure them by creating legal and
economic conditions for:
0    a really free-of-charge complete general secondary education within the limits o f the state standard, and
     free-of-charge education o f other levels within the limitsset down by the Law,


                                                     - 105-

e    equal access o f all citizens o f the RussianFederation to education o f different levels irrespective o f the
     place o f residence and the family income,
e    obtaining education in accordance with the approved state standards guaranteeing societally acceptable
     quality o f curricula.

Access to quality education also means state guarantees of: a) teaching and leaming based on an up-to-date
material base and up-to-date equipment and textbooks; b) teaching and learning performed in conditions
guaranteeing protection o f human rights and personality o f the student during the academic process, and
hisher psychological andphysical security; c) social-pedagogical and psychological-pedagogical support to
families, early diagnostics o f pupil's developmental reserves (both physical           and psychological); d)
free-of-charge admission o f students to state, municipal andeducational institutions' libraries.

Students must be informed about the situation on the labour market and its demand, the volume o f their
education costs covered by the State andthe society, the quality o f obtained education and the way it meets
the state education standards.

To enhance objectivity in evaluating the achievements o f graduates from general education and ensure
equity o f access to secondary VET and higher education the existing system o f final examinations in
general education institutions and entrance examinations to higher educational institutions and institutions
o f secondary VET must be changed, based on the outcomes o f the pilot introduction o f the universal final
state examination. To select the most gifted applicants to higher educational institutions implementing
curricula requiring certain creative, artistic, or physical aptitudes, or implementing curricula o f an
advanced level additional requirements may be set upon approval by the Federal education administration
bodies.

Parallel to this a system o f specialized training (profile-based) in the senior grades o f general schools will
be tested, aimed at individualizing teaching and learning, and socializing students. This system will be
based on real needs o f the labour market.

To expand access to education irrespective o f the place o f residence and the family income level it is
necessary to introduce a system o f minimal social standards based on the constitutional rights o f citizens to
obtain free-of-charge education, and develop and implement a set o f social and economic measures to
ensure access to all levels o f education. These measures include:
     transfer o f payment o f salaries and support o f the academic process at municipal general education
     schools into the jurisdiction o f the RF Subject and granting them the status o f state educational
     institutions;
     introduction o f targeted payments for low-income students, creation o f other mechanisms to support
     students in need o f special social protection at the regional and municipal levels, to facilitate their
     access to supplementary educational services and training at educational institutions implementing
     advanced level programmes exceeding the state education standards;
     creation o f a system o f state education credits and subsidies to expand opportunities to obtain
     secondary VET andhgher education for children from low-income families, envisaging different forms
     o f paying back the credit or subsidy; it i s also necessary to use state education credits and subsidies to
     train students in occupations having special importance for the economic and social development o f the
     State;
     legal regulation o f non-budgetary financing to education and its proper use, protection o f paid
     education services consumer rights;
     minimization o f the gap between the rate o f academic and social scholarships, and the subsistence
     level;


                                                      - 106 -

0    expansion o f part-time job placement pools for students.

To ensure equal rights o f citizens to obtain competition-based secondary VET and hgher education
proposals guaranteeing graduates o f complete general secondary education and initial and secondary VET
suspension from the draft to the Armed Forces will be adopted in the approved order, to give them an
opportunity to go on to secondary VET or higher education respectively.

An important organizational andpedagogic measure aimed at expanding access to general education will be
a resumption (based on an up-to-date technical basis) o f keeping records o f children o f the schooling age
and creation of a state-and-public system o f ensuring the compulsory character o f general education and
its monitoring.

To ensure equal opportunities for rural schools-children to obtain quality general education, special
measures will be taken to support rural school and its restructuring. Rural schools must not be economized
on, as inmost rural areas the school is often the only cultural and social center, and teachers form the core
o f the rural intelligentsia.

Children with disabilities mustbe provided with medical and psychological support and special conditions
must be created for them to obtain education at general education schools at their place o f residence, and,
for those whose medical condition requires it, at special schools andboarding-schools.

  Children with deviant behavior who are currently becoming a social hazard must be provided with
compulsory individual psychological and pedagogic support.            The RF Government         is planning to
implement a set o f measures to combat homelessness, deviant behavior and social exclusion o f children and
the youth. These measures include:
0    creation o f a network o f educational institutions o f the type o f the Suvorov and Nakhimov schools,
     military schools, Cossack schools, flying, marine, river, industrial, agricultural and other schools;
     creation o f specialized consultative centres for teen-agers where the latter could resolve their
     psychological and leaming problems, as well as medical andsocial problems;
     rationalization o f child adoption procedures, development o f a network o f foster-families and
     family-type orphanages;
     expansion o f training o f social pedagogues and psychologists to work with children at risk and prevent
     their social exclusion;
     training and retraining teachers, as well as training parents inprevention o f drugtaking and alcoholism;
0    introduction on the federal and regional levels o f ombudsmen to protect the rights o f children.

One o f the reasons for deviant behavior among teen-agers and young people lies in an inadequate
organization o f their leisure and vacation time. Education administration bodies and educational
institutions, all boches o f state power and local self-government as well as the community must give more
attention and exert more influence on children and teen-agers during their vacation time and provide
employment for them to develop their creative potential and personal qualities.

2.2.      Creation of Conditionsto Improve Quality of GeneralEducation

The core element in the education modernization is the general school Modernization o f the school
presupposes that the school should both provide a certain sum o f knowledge and develop the student's
personality, cognitive and constructive abilities. The general school must form in students a holistic system
o f knowledge and skills, as well an ability to perform, or act independently, and personal responsibility -
the core competencies shaping the content o f education today. Also the best traditions o f domestic natural


                                                      - 107 -

sciences, mathematics, humanities and artistic education must be preserved, and learners must develop an
adequate picture o f the contemporary world .

Education must also focus on the moral upbringing as its top priority mission. Moral upbringing must
become an inherent component of the academic process integrated in teaching and learning. Moral
upbringingmust form in students a sense of civil responsibility and legal self-consciousness, spirituality,
culture, initiative, autonomy, tolerance, ability to socialize and adapt to the labour market.

An important role here belongs to interaction of the school with institutions of supplementary education,
which have been and remain a leading factor in fostering interests, aptitudes and skills and social and
vocational self-identification inchildren and young people.

An exceptional role inthe moral upbringingbelongs to the family.

Necessaryprerequisites for the achievement o f a new up-to-date quality o f general education are:
0   legislative determination of the duration o f schooling including the period o f schooling at every level
    (new future-oriented structural models of schools mustalso be developed, including those envisaging a
    longer primary education); adoption of a framework o f the state standard o f general education and a
    variable core curriculum adaptable to the specificity o f the regions and educational institutions and
    labour market needs;
0   optimization o f the leaming, psychological and physical loads, creation o f conditions in educational
    institutions that would be conducive to strengtheningthe students' health, also by: a) optimizing the
    content o f general education; b) using effective teaching methods; c) raising the share and quality of
    physical training classes; d) introducing an effective monitoring o f the students' health; e) improving
    school meals; f) rationalizing students' leisure and vacation time;
0   differentiation and individualization o f teaching and learningto meet the state education standards, by
    introducing diverse types of educational institutions andvariable curricula;
0   spiritual development o f the individual, a fuller use o f the arts spiritual potential to instill ethical
    principles and ideals;
0   introduction and testing of a flexible system o f profiled teaching in senior grades (highschool), and
    cooperation of high school with educational institutions o f initial and secondary VET and higher
    education;
0   enhancement o f the role of disciplines promoting the students' successful socialization - economics,
    history, law, the mother tongue and foreign languages, improvement of vocational orientation and
    technology training; provision o f computer training to all, acquisition by general secondary school
    graduates o f minimum one foreign language at the level o f fhctional literacy; introduction o f a
    compulsory final examination in a foreign language at general secondary schools and a compulsory
    examination ininformation technologies at core general schools;
0   creation of conditions within the system o f vocational orientation to provide psychological support to
    young people to assist them in identifying their occupational interests, aptitudes and capacities to
    master a specific occupation;
0   development of mechanisms for restructuring core secondary and high school in rural areas (with
    maintenance and support of small-sized schools and creation of conditions in each populated area for
    the implementation of pre-school and primary school curricula); creation o f educational complexes;
    training and consultative units, organization o f a system of school buses, development o f distance
     leaming, etc;
0    creation o f a legal framework for new types o f general schools, including educational centres and
     complexes, as well as institutions for children left without parental care;
0    extension o f opportunities for obtaining a free-of-charge supplementary education, and state support of


                                                      -108   -

     schools for gifted children;
0    creation o f an effective state-and-public system o f expert examination and control o f the quality o f
    textbooks; state support o f competitions among textbook authors;
0    state support o f educational innovative institutions as pilot sites for the modemization o f education;
0    creation o f a state system o f quality control in education independent from education administration
    bodies, which will become a mighty and reliable tool inraising the efficiency o f education; provision o f
    objective information on the strengths and weaknesses o f the constituent elements o f the education
     system to the public.

The main goal o f general secondary education is to train a versatile personality, knowledgeable about the
world and indomestic culture, contemporary value system and needs o f contemporary life, capable o f an
active social adaptation insociety and o f making an informed choice o f a life-path, ready to enter the world
o f work and continue vocational and professional education, capable o f self-leaming, self-development and
forecasting andresponsible for the taken decisions.

2.3. Creation of Conditions to Improve Quality of Vocational and Professional Education

The State is returning to education as a guarantor o f quality educational services and programmes provided
by educational institutions o f general, vocational and professional education irrespective o f their forms o f
ownership.
Content and structure o f VET will be seriously modemized to meet the needs o f industry, the third sector,
culture, the Army, civil service, etc.

VET modernization will be geared to meet the needs o f economy and the social sphere, science and
technology, the federal andterritorial labour markets, as well as their prospective development. A system o f
continuous monitoring o f current and future labour market needs in specialists with different qualifications
mustbe installed taking advantage o f intemational expertise inthis area. An optimal VET system mustbe
built to meet these needs, including a multi-level structure o f higher education. The forecast o f labour
market demands on the federal and territorial levels, together with VET and professional education
institutions' ratings must be made public by the media.
It is planned to set up an effective system o f job placements for graduates including a targeted
contract-based training. All VET and higher education graduates must be equipped with job-seeking,
entrepreneurial and self-employment skills.

The strategy o f VET and professional education development lays special emphasis on the strengthening
and modemization o f the material-technical base of educational institutions and their infrastructure, their
connection to the Intemet and local information networks, on the provision o f up-to-date equipment,
devices andmaterials to higher educational institutions, as critical factors inraisingthe quality o f education
and support university-based research. Education must merge with entrepreneurship                         through
research-technological parks andventure enterprises.

Inthe contemporary context higher educational institutions mustbe strengthened and developed both as the
central link o f the system of higher education, and as a core research agent exerting a decisive influence on
the cadre and technological level o f the economy. Special attention must be given to strengthening the
country's leading universities and setting up on their basis research-educational centres addressing national
objectives.

Alongside the above a number of measures will be implemented inthe coming years to raise requirements
to the quality o f VET and professional education, namely: 1) all curricula in the field o f economics, law


                                                       -109 -

and management will be re-certified; b) all branches o f higher education institutions, as well as o f private
higher education institutions issuing diplomas of the state format will be re-certified and, if need be,
re-licensed. All leading Russianuniversities and scholars, as well as education administration bodies o f the
RF Subjects will be involved inthis process.

Special attention will be given to anticipatory development of VET, conditioned by a growing demand o f
the national economy in highly qualified workers and specialists at the initial and medium levels o f
production. Content and quality of education at these two levels must be considerably improved to bring
them up to the intemational quality standards, integration o f professions must be activated and intensified
and institutions o f initial and secondary VET must radically turn to address the needs o f local labour
markets. Increased financing o f these educational institutions is needed to build an up-to-date
methodological and information base for teaching and learning, expand research activities and production
o f teaching materials. Parallel to this an optimal concept o f implementing general secondary education
programmes at educational institutions o f these two levels must be developed and implemented, coherence
and continuity of vocational programmes must be ensured and vertical mobility o f students must be
provided for.

Govemance o f VET also needs serious restructuring. A quality change must be effected inthe interaction
o f the regions and the Federal Centre in areas related to the functioning and development o f VET and
professional education o f all levels. To raise effectiveness o f initial and secondary VET they have to be
assigned to two levels o f authority, namely the federal authority and the regional jurisdiction, with a
possibility o f delegating part o f the powers inthis area to the municipal level.

To ensure a new quality o f VET andprofessional education it is envisaged to:
     forecast the needs o f the labour market and create an interacting network o f VET andhigher education
     institutions, recruiting and information agencies, and employment services;
     implement measures aimed at raising efficiency o f the VET and professional education market,
     overcoming its segmentation, unjustified monopolism and inadequate information outreach to
     customers;
     carry out a structural and institutional restructuring o f VET and professional education, optimize the
     network o f educational institutions, develop and test models o f integration o f initial and secondary
     VET, secondary VET and higher education, achieve a true multi-level character of higher education,
     create university complexes (associations);
     considerably improve the material-technical base o f VET andhigher education institutions;
     actively introduce ICT and optimize methods o f teaching, raising the share o f those that form practical
     skills of information analysis and self-education, raise the role o f independent learning; andactively use
     technologies o f open education;
     in higher education - increase the share of integrated and interdisciplinary programmes and their
     saturation with breakthrough hightechnologies;
     raise the status o f university research as a major factor o f quality training o f specialists, development
     o f production forces and as a mechanism o f a continuous renovation o f professional education;
     integrate university, academic and sector research;
     develop, under the Federal programme o f the Development o f Education, a subprogramme "Russian
     Universities" and provide state support to leading scientific and research schools, as well as determine
     the processes and forms o f this support;
     form conditions for continuingprofessional growth o f personnel, and involve init leading scholars from
     the Russian Academy o f Sciences; ensure continuity o f different levels o f vocational and professional
     education and create an effective system o f supplementary professional education ensuring
     psychological support to individuals changing occupational activities, or intheir career growth;


                                                      - 110-

0    concentrate a competition-based re-training o f the unemployed and redundant population at institutions
     o f initial and secondary VET and availability o f employment services centres;
0    create a legal framework ensuring active involvement o f employers and other social partners in VET
     andprofessional education, includingthe development o f education standards responding to up-to-date
     qualification requirements (occupational standards),        setting targets to institutions o f VET and
     professional education, contract-based training and implementation o f the human resources policy on
     the level o f the RF Subjects;
0    reform the system o f militarytraining, organize general vocational training o f retired officers incertain
     occupations inthe field o f engineering, social-economic and humanities profiles, at secondary VET and
     higher education institutions; create cross-university militarydepartments for training retired officers.

To encourage research activities among university faculty their financial support on the part o f the State
will be mounted, including competition-based grants.

The central goal o f VET andprofessional education is to train qualified specialists o f an appropriate level
andprofile, who would be competitive on the labour market, competent, responsible, having a full mastery
o f their profession and knowledgeable inneighboring spheres o f activity, capable o f effective performance
inthe specialization of training on the level of world standards, ready for professional growth, social and
professional mobility; andmeet the needs o f individuals inobtaining education and training.

A radical change inthe system o f VET andprofessional education and inthe quality of training specialists
i s closely interrelated with the development o f fundamental and applied research and is o f critical
importance for the future o f the country. It requires ajoint effort o f the academic and teaching community,
the State and entrepreneurs.

2.4.Formation of Effective Economic Relations in Education

Inthe course ofthe modernization o feducation, consideredas a priority sector o fthe national economy, the
State will consistently mount its financial support up to the necessary level. Inthe near future the State will
resolve the problem o f redemption o f the accumulated arrears to educational institutions, caused by budget
fundingshortages.
To form effective economic mechanisms o f modernization and development o f education, relying on new
principles and a system o f financing, it is necessary to:
     introduce norm-based budget financing o f general secondary and initial VET to ensure implementation
     o f state education standards and create appropriate conditions o f instruction;
     develop differentiated norms reflecting the character o f curricula, their implementation on the basis o f
     the budgetary financing o f educational institutions (entities) o f higher education and, in future, o f
     secondary VET accompanied by the system o f State education credits and subsidies provided to
     citizens to obtain vocational and professional education to meet the State priorities and support
     students from low-income families andremote areas;
     allocate funds for the development o f education in the budgets o f all levels including funds for the
     purchase o f equipment and computers, support o f libraries and information resources, as well as funds
     for upgrading teachers' qualifications;
     achieve transparency o f cross-budgetary relations in the sphere o f education related to the financial
     support o f education; develop the system o f financial support o f the RF Subjects andmunicipal entities
     with regard to meeting the modemization goals; ensure that the allocated finds are used in the proper
     way;
     encourage co-founding       and multi-channel financing o f VET and higher education institutions,
     transition to competitive and contract-based mechanisms o f their funding; implement in the full scope


                                                     -111  -

     o f the provisions o f the RF Law "On Education" relatedto the autonomy o f educational institutions;
     create a legal framework for economic autonomy, which among other things will take care o f an
     increased diversity o f organizational and legal forms o f educational institutions and organizations;
     consistently implement the principle o f economic autonomy o f educational and institutions while
     introducing the Treasury system o f accounting for non-budgetary funds o f educational institutions;
     enhance transparency o f the financial activities o f educational institutions and their financial and
     economic accountability;
     create conditions to attract additional funds to educational institutions, design a system o f incentives,
     including tax incentives;
     expand paid supplementary educational services at educational institutions, including those for the
     population, to meet the education demand and as an internal resource for financing educational
     institutions and encouraging innovative processes;
     create at educational institutions (especially in rural areas)      various types o f cultural-educational,
     production andhealth centers;
     support profiled production activities by students at educational institutions; provide for the use o f the
     funds o f the Federal Programme o f the Development o f Education to finance programmes o f the
     development o f all types and forms o f state and municipal educational institutions on the basis o fjoint
     fundmg from respective budgets, and the programme's                   strict orientation towards meeting
     modernization goals.

The system o f education must respond not only to the targets set by the State, but also to the ever growing
public demand, concrete needs o f families, local communities and enterprises. It is this response to real
needs o f concrete consumers o f educational services that may attract additional financial, material and
technical resources to the education system.

It should be born inmindat the same time, that appeals to sponsors, or donors to support education will be
useless until a reasonable system o f incentives and privileges has been created and until a mechanism has
been put in place allowing those who invest in education (from sponsors to parents) influence
decision-making inthis area, for example through Boards o f Trustees, or other suchlike bodies.

2.5. Provision of Highly Qualified Personnel to the Education System, and their Support by the State
and Society

The State regards an improved well-being and an increased social status o f educators as a priority objective
o f the education policy. The achievement o f this objective presupposes considerable changes in the
remuneration o f educators and education administrators, and in the system o f pre-service and in-service
teacher training.
Teachers' improved professionalism, training o f qualified teachers adequate to the requirements o f
contemporary life is a top priority and an inherent element o f the modernization strategy.
To overcome negative tendencies intraining personnel for the field o f education, and raise the social status
and professionalism o f teachers the subprogramme "The Pedagogic Cadre o f Russia" envisages the
following directions:
1)        Improved teachers 'status
All teachers mustbe entitled to:
          free access to professional information related to education;
          participation through professional associations in the management (governance) o f education and
development o f principles and directions o f the education policy;
          free use o f public, municipal libraries andlibraries o f educational institutions;
          priority provision o f housing to teachers within the socially accepted norm, should it be proved that


                                                      - 112-

they need better housing, inline with acting RF legislation;

2) Strengthened State support andprovision of incentivesfor educators and education administrators:
         introduction o f the financing o f expenses related to the payment o f salaries for general schools
personnel from the level o f the Subjects o f the Federation; given the introduction o f norm-based financing,
a mandatory super-tariff fund must be provided for, allowing an educational institution to flexibly pay out
benefits to encourage higher quality o f work and attract personnel enjoying an increased demand on the
labour market;
         bringingthe minimal standard payment rate for teachers to the level not lower that the subsistence
minimum,andby 2006 bringing the average teacher's salary upto the level ofaverage salary inindustry;
                          -
         based on the modernization o f the Uniform Tariff Payroll Scheme, transition to the payroll
scheme that would addressthe specificity o f the education sector;
         introduction of target benefits to young specialists for the their first 42 months (3.5 years) in the
teaching profession, benefits for uninterrupted length o f service at educational institutions, as well as
benefits to encourage better performance;
         resolution in the established order o f the issue related to granting suspension from the service in
the Army to graduates from higher professional education and secondary VET who have acquired a
teaching profession, for the period o f their full-time employment as teachers, instructors o f vocational
training at state-accredited educational institutions o f general education and initial VET, at orphanages and
boarding-schools;
         creation o f sector-specific pension scheme for educators and improvement o f the pension scheme
for different categories o f educators;
         creation o f a sector-specific scheme o f medical andsocial insurance for education workers;
         setting up o f sector-specific mortgage credits for the purchase o f housing;
         adoption o f legal documents granting reduced rates o f housing and utility payments to teachers and
educators inrural areas.

3)Improvement of teachers'professionalism:
         development and testing of reform           models for pre-service teacher-training,     including its
organization, structure, content, principles o f interaction with the teaching practice and innovations in
education; increased volume and higher quality o f pre-service teacher training for initial and secondary
VET;
         reorganization o f the system o f in-service teacher training institutions,        introduction o f its
competition-based financing and personified financing o f in-service teacher-training based on the teacher's
individual choice o f educational institutions o f supplementary education;
         access to in-service training or re-training, with costs covered by the State, in the volumes
determined by the State as often as once every five years;
         provision o fbasic training inICT to all education administrators andeducation workers;
         reorganization o f the methodological service w i t h education administration bodies, based on the
principles o f networking and marketing to disseminate advanced educational practices; creation o f a
ramified infrastructure o f methodological services in the form o f pilot sites, laboratories o f innovative
practices, and workshops at innovative educational institutions;
         creation o f an effective system o f pre-service and in-service training for education administrators;
introduction o f a standard scheme o f their certification and procedures for applying for job vacancies
(should they have the necessary qualification);
         a considerable increase inthe number o f Presidential scholarships.

Another important goal is modernization o f the system o f           research and methodological support o f
education. This goal envisages: a) improvement o f the quality o f pedagogic research, elimination o f


                                                      -113  -

unjustified overlaps in the activities o f research institutions affiliated with the Russian Academy o f
Education, andbridgingthe gap between research and practice; b) restoration o f practice-oriented research
and construction of totally new models o f applied research that would take the pedagogical science to the
forefront o f research dealing with human development, education, tendencies o f education and pedagogic
change and dissemination o f innovations; c) target financing o f promising applied research and projects
having a social impact.

2.6. Governance of Education Based on the Division of Authority Between the Subjects of the
EducationPolicy

In the process o f modernization education will become an open              state-and-public system, and the
patemalistic model      will give way to the model o f mutual responsibility in the field o f education,
characterized by an enhanced role o f all key stakeholders o f the education policy andtheir interaction.

Participation o f the society in the political, legal and administrative decision-making in the field o f
education will continuously grow. To this end an appropriate legal framework and mechanisms o f effective
public participation in the development o f education (expansion o f the functions and powers o f boards of
trustees, public boards, associations, etc) will be developed.

Namely, it is planned to adopt legislation granting legal status to the board of trustees at educational
institutions, providing for the board's participation in the formulation o f education services offered by the
educational institution on top o f the compulsory curricula and state education standards, identification o f
areas o f vocational orientation, personnel matters, implementation o f the public control over spending o f
non-budgetary h d s o f the educational institution, etc.
The state and public involvement in the activity o f all govemance bodies inthe field o f education must be
identified and coordinated, and functions o f public associations and expert councils determined.
Decision-making ineducation must become public andtransparent.

At the same time an utmost important goal in the modemization of education is the modemization o f the
existing model o f governance o f the system. In contemporary conditions education govemance is
governance o f the process o f its development. It is necessary to create an integrated system o f education
statistics and quality indicators, comparable with international practices, as well as the system o f education
monitoring.

The immediate goal is to form an optimal model o f govemance, whxh would distribute and coordinate
competences and authority, functions and responsibilities o f all subjects o f the education policy, and
primarily-o f educational institutions and local self-government bodies, regional and federal administration
bodies. Inthe context o f the planned transfer o f general education institutions under the state authority and
a corresponding redistribution o f the powers o f the regions and municipalities it is necessary to design an
adequate system o f education governance at these levels that would draw from the experience o f existing
inter-municipal govemance structures, as well as from practices known in pre-revolutionary Russia with
its education areas integrating regional education potential o f different territories. The above changes are
aimed at enhancing effectiveness o f the vertical component o f govemance (namely, as governance of the
education development processes).

Given the fact that in the contemporary context students are increasingly obtaining information by
themselves, andprimarily through the media, it is planned to develop and implement measures to strengthen
the influence o f the State and the society on the development o f the media education policy, activate their
role in forming culture and civil qualities, enhance their responsibility for showing and propaganda o f


                                                     - 114 -

violence, pornography, racial and ethnic intolerance. The number o f educational programmes on public
channels (radio and TV) will grow, access to information will be facilitated, specifically, by the creation o f
electronic libraries under the Federal Programmes "Electronic Russia" and "Integrated Information
Education Environment" that would be accessible to all.

The following measures must be taken to develop education as an open and integrated state-and-public
system:
         minimal state requirements to the normative equipment o f educational institutions (methodological,
personnel, information, material and technical), will be introduced and the responsibility for meeting these
requirements will lie with the founders and should these norms fail to be met educational institutions may
be closeddown;
         legal framework to support diverse contractual relations in education (between the state and
educational institutions; between an educational institution and its founders; between co-founders o f an
educational institution; between educational institutions and employers) will be developed;
         legal and economic mechanisms o f co-founding and co-financing o f educational institutions by
state power bodies on the federal and regional level and by local self-government bodies will be developed
and tested;
         transparency o f activities of educational institutions and education administration bodies will be
enhanced, including the way budgetary andnon-budgetary funds are spent;
         innovative activities o f educational institutions will be supported by financing and co-financing
major educational projects;
         private educational organizations (institutions) will develop and quality control o f the implemented
curricula will be strengthened;
         in the system of pre-school education a gradual transition to a shared financing of educational
institutions will be carried out (the state pays for educational services, while the maintenance and material
costs are covered by the founder, and the costs o f childcare are met by the parents, with targeted support
o f low-income families);
         payment for supplementary educational services (on top o f the education standard) ingeneral, VET
and professional education will be streamlined, and control o f the use o f funds on the part o f board o f
trustees andparents' councils will be strengthened;
         personal accounts for disabled children, with a view to accumulating state, corporate, sponsor and
parents' contributions for the education and health support o f each child will be introduced;
         responsibility o f the educational institution for failure to carry out its functions set down in its
Statutes, ensure the normative conditions o f teaching and learning and meet the state education standard
will grow.
The system o f education i s an area o f interaction o f the interests o f the State and the society. All subjects o f
legal relations in education must be entitled to influence the functioning and development o f the system of
education and at the same time must bear responsibility for creating conditions necessary for the system to
carry out its social and educational functions.

3. MAJOR AREAS, STAGES AND MEASURES OF THE EDUCATION POLICY
IMPLEMENTATION

Modemization o f education is a large-scale programme o f the State implemented with an active
participation o f the society. It must lead to achieving a new quality o f Russian education as it addresses the
most urgent and future-oriented demands o f contemporary life.

At the first stage of the modernization process, in2001-2003 the state will re-establish its responsibility for
education. The State will launch the modernization process in the field o f education, creating at the same


                                                     - 115-

time necessary conditions for a wide participation o f the society in this process.         Modernization o f
education is happening in the context o f reforms o f other aspects o f Russian life and in close interaction
with other reforms, at the same time education modemization provides the necessary cadre resource for
these reforms.

At this stage modernization o f the education system is closely linked with the process o f its stabilization
and achievement of the minimal necessary budgetary norms, as well as with the resolution o f socially
important issues.

The main directions and priority measures o f the education policy at t h s stage comprise:
1.       Transfer o f payment o f salaries and support o f the academic process to the level o f the RF
Subjects; granting municipal general education institutions the status o f state educational institutions, as
well as::
         implementation o f measures aimed at a gradual transition to shared financing o f pre-school
educational institutions andtransfer o f financing and implementation o fpre-school cumcula to the Subjects
o f the Federation;
         development o f the legal framework for co-founding o f educational institutions by the Subjects o f
the Federation and local self-government bodies, including integrated educational institutions o f the
"school-preschool" type.

2.       Updating content o f education andimprovement o f quality control mechanisms:
         adoption o f state standards for general education;
         pilot testing o f the new content o f general education, reducing the load on pupils, making teaching
pupil-oriented and addressing the needs o f contemporary life, pilot testing o f new content o f general
education;
         creation o f conditions for introduction o f "profiled" learning in high schoolhenior grades o f the
general school;
         development and launching o f a system o f certification and quality control ineducation independent
from the education adrmnistration bodies;
         pilot testing o f the universal final state examination.

3.       Optimization o fthe Structure and Increased Budgetary Financing

         an annual increase inthe budget financing o f education, inthe amount not lower than 25% (in real
terms), including the share o f budgetary allocations for the development o f education in the part o f the
purchase o f equipment and information resources, in-service teacher training, capital investment and
financing innovative pilot sites;
         norm-based financing o f educational institutions after the pilot testing o f its models and other
organizational and economic mechanisms ensuring an effective use o f allocations to education;
         elimination o f arrears to state and municipal educational institutions resulting from non-execution
o fbudgetary financing andutilities underpayment.

4.       Strengthening o f the Social Orientation o f the Education System:

         adoption o f a set o f measures to combat child homelessness, asocial behavior and social exclusion;
         provision o f target social support to children from low-income families, disabled children and
children left without parental care;
         creation o f a system o f state education credits and subsidies to expand access o f children from
low-income families to secondary VET andhigher education;


                                                       -116-

         expanded access to pre-school educationwith a target support o f low-income families;
         development and implementation o f a subprogramme "Physical Training and Health o f Children,
Teen-agers and the Youth in the Russian Federation (2002-2005)" under the Federal Programme "The
Youth o f Russia".

5.       All-round Support o f Rural and Village Schools by providing them with computers and access to
Internet, new equipment, improved standards o f teaching and materialbase.

6.       Structural and Institutional Restructuring o f VET and Professional Education Re-orienting them
towards Federal and Local Labour Markets:

         Priority support by the State o f leading higher education institutions and research schools,
integration o f the academic, university and sector research;
         Improvement of the structure and optimization o f the network, strengthening o f the integration o f
initial and secondary VET, development o f vocational colleges, actualization o f content and improvement
o f the quality o f vocational training, its orientation towards the needs o f the local labour markets;
         development o f adult and continuing education with concentration o f the re-training o f employees
made redundant andthe unemployedpopulation at initial andsecondary VET institutions;
         adoption o f a system o f measures ensuring implementation o f the State priorities in VET and
professional education (target goals, subsidies, etc);
         development o f forecasts o f future demand in qualified personnel in terms o f occupations and
specializations, improvement on this basis o f the state targets set to VET institutions.

7. Development o f the Economic Autonomy and Diversity o f Forms o f Educational Institutions, Attraction
o f Investment to Education by introducing amendments to the RF legislation and other legal documents;
provision o f incentives to legal entities and individuals investing or donating to education.

8.       Raising the Social Status, State Support and Professionalism o f Educators:

         financing payroll expenses at general education institutions from the level o f the RF Subjects;
         adoption of the minimal payment rate for educators in the amount equal or above the subsistence
level;
         adoption o f additional benefits for teachers to encourage excellence o f performance, as well as for
young teachers and teachers with an uninterrupted service record at educational institutions;
         based on the modernization o f the Uniform Tariff Rates, preparation for the transition to the
sector-based system o f salaries that would take into account the specificity o fthe education sector;
         development of a sector-based pension scheme for education workers and improvement o f the
pension scheme for different categories o f educators;
         resolution o f the issue related to the suspension from the service inthe Army for young teachers for
the period o f their work at general and initial vocational educational institutions, having the state
accreditation, at orphanages andboarding-schools;
         development and implementation under the Federal Programme o f the Development o f Education
o f the subprogramme "Pedagogic Cadre o f Russia"; allocation o f finances for in-service teacher training
and re-training o f teachers and education administrators from the budget.

9. Updating the system of research and methodological support o f education, restructuring the organization
o f the pedagogical science, elimination o f the gap between research and the needs o f contemporary society
and best educational practices, enhancing its role in the support, designing and expert examination o f
education innovations to ensure continuity o f modernization processes.


                                                        - 117 -

10.      Bringingthe legal framework o feducation inline with the modernization goals.
At the second stage of modernization, in 2004-2005 the above measures will be implemented in full, and
namely those that have been tested during the first period andproved successful after evaluation. Also new
models will be developed in the area o f the content o f education, its organization and financing. All the
above must be based on a detailed analysis o f the regional experience andlocal specificity andmust ensure
the achievement o f the major modernization goals, and primarily - up-to-date quality o f education and
access to education for the population.

All earlier experiments will allow to clearly outline the social risks of the new forms and develop
appropriate compensatory mechanisms. During the second period the resource support o f education will
consistently grow, primarily from budgets of all levels.

At this stage priority place will be taken by the development o f mechanisms of governance of innovative
projects aimed at implementing new models o f education. These models will be developed and implemented
with regard to the regional specificity.

Alongside this, the society (enterprises, families, local self-government, public bodies) is expected to have
become more involved in education. This will be ensured by two factors. First,the incomes of families and
enterprises (and capacities o f local budgets, as directly related to them) will allow to considerably augment
the paying capacity o f citizens in relation to education, and primarily - vocational and professional
education, and extend the support o f educational organizations both inthe form o f budgetary financing and
sponsors donations. Second, transparency inmanagement of education and educational institutions will be
instrumental inbuildingup broadpublic support and control.

On the whole, education will be more oriented towards the labour market and requirements o f the social
andeconomic development of the country. Contracts with end users will partially move out the form of the
state-set targets (especially in initial and secondary VET). This will allow to bring down the budget
financing growth rate in VET. At the same time financing of general education from regional and local
budgets will continue to grow at a highpace up to the end o f the first decade.

Inthe second half of the decade, in 2006-2010, the society will bear the first fruit of the modernization
effort:
         due to the effective re-direction o f the financial flows the resources o f education will have grown
(private contributions may rise from 1.3 to 2.5% o f the GDP);
         the quality o f general, vocational and professional education will have improved inreal terms, and
the general school will have met up-to-date requirements and the mass vocational school will have become
competitive internationally, with export o f education services amounting to 2-3 billion dollars;
         social tensions will diminish, with most blatant cases o f social injustice, such as homelessness
among children andjuvenile delinquency, eradicated;
         following an increase in salaries o f educators, bringingthem up to the competitive level, the social
status and quality o f teachers will be consolidated andthere will be more young teachers;
         increased competitiveness and investment attractiveness o f Russia's vocational and professional
education resulting from the anticipatory renovation o f the material-technical base o f initial and secondary
VET, andtheir adaptation to the labour markets will be achieved.

Adopting the given Concept, the Government o f the Russian Federation assumes that the next coming
months, during which the development o f the modernization launching mechanisms and renovation o f the
education policy at large will be finalized, will demonstrate resolution and consistency o f all state and


                                                      - 118 -

public institutions of the country in the implementation of the modemization plans for the period up to
2010.




                                                 - 119-

-120-

MAP SECTION


