ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorid Frce of Poverty
A,                                                     ~~~~~~~24481
-InfoShop
h, :,,. I 11 , 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Dlate ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/05/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Pro ect Data
Country: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                       Project ID: P075387
Project: Education III                           Task Team Leader: Mary Canning
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 1, 2003       IBRD Amount ($m): 200.00
Bank Approval: July 15, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m):
Mlanaging Unit: ECSHD                             Sector: Primary education (50%); Secondary
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  education (50%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the project is to assist Russia to reorient its educational system to the global information
society through the development of strategic planning and quality management approaches to the
introduction of ICT in education for teachers, general and initial vocationaducational institutions and
systems. The project would (i) train teachers to use new generation learning materials and to embed ICT
in their teaching; (ii) create modern teaching and learning ICT resource centers in selected regions of the
Russian Federation to increase access to education services and to disseminate modern teaching
practices; and (iii) build sustainable Russian capacity to produce high quality, affordable and flexible
learning materials to support Russia's ICT in Education program.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project would have two main components. The first component, implemented through an
ICT Support Fund, would: (a) support both pre-service and in-service teacher training in the introduction
oF ICT into classrooms; and (b) establish a network of resource centers to improve access to ICT
enhanced education opportunities and disseminate new teaching practices. The second component,
imnplemented at the Federal level, would focus on meeting the critical shortage of learning materials for
students, teachers and education managers preparing to participate in a knowledge economy.
Component One: ICT Support Fund
(i) Teacher training in the educational use of ICT. This component would support selected regions
in training their new and existing teachers and education managers in the use of ICT in education.
Training would take place at both the pre-service and in-service levels using the teacher training
materials developed in Component Two.



2
ISDS
(ii) ICT Resource Centers in selected RegionsThe resource centers would provide a range of'
services and materials for (i) teacher support and advisory services; (ii) dissemination of ICT in
education practices; (iii) technical and maintenance support services; (iv) distance education support and
(v) community and industry facilities to provide access to training in the use of ICT and the production of
new resources.
Component Two: Development of learning materials to support ICT in Education Programs
This component would remedy the shortfall in new generation learning materials in Russia by: (i)
developing a strategic planning framework for materials development; (ii) building Russian instructional
design and development capacity in learning materials production; (iii) producing a range of critical and
exemplar learning materials to introduce a reusable object oriented/constructivist design approach; and
(iv) developing teacher training materials that would focus on embedding ICT in teaching and learning
practices.
Component Three: Project Management
Components:
I(a) Teacher Training in the educational use of ICT
1(1b) ICT Resource centers in selected regions
2(a) Developing a strategic planning framework for materials development
2(1b) Russian instructional design and development capacity in learning materials production
2(c) Producing a range of critical and exemplar learning materials to introduce reusable object
oriented/constructivist design approach
2(d) Developing teacher training materials to embed ICT in teaching and learning practices
3. Project management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)



3
ISDS
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: There are no significant environmental issues for the proposed project. Even at this early stage
o F preparation, it is clear that there will be no major civil works component in the project.
The proposed project will not require major civil works such as new buildings, roofs, plumbing. Little or
no rehabilitation work is envisaged, except for perhaps removing partitions and painting, wiring schools
for computer infrastructure and laying optic cables, perhaps some furniture to house the computers.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    09 Yes * No  ID TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       G Yes * No   C} TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               O Yes * No    O TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                5 Yes * No    O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No   0 TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               O Yes * No    C0 TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                 O Yes * No   G TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GI' 7.60)*          0 Yes 0 No   0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes 0 No   O TBD
*,9y supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
L'. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
d?scribe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
I].D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Il.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
ILD.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
I:.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
IN/A
IL.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
T'he project is expected to include a series of public relations and information activities throughout the



4
ISDS
Russian Federation. The Minister has suggested the use of existing teachers' newspapers.  One
suggestion is to create a discussion room on the Ministry of Education website.
The first part of a formal social assessment is being designed which will concentrate on teachers' issues
thirough focus groups to be set up in a number of representative areas of Russia ( not Moscow) and which
will focus on the following issues; (i) goals and motivation for learning using new-generation learning
materials; (ii) risk of inequities developing among teachers because some will be able to cope with the
changes brought about by the use of new learning materials and others may feel excluded; (iii) ethics
issues in the introduction of ICTs ( e.g. easier for students to cheat); (iv) readiness and motivation for
ICT use among instructors at institutions doing pre- and in-service teacher education; (v) willingness
among parents and community members to accept changed patterns of instruction, based on ICT use, and
their perception of the value of these in the context of an emerging global knowledge economy.
Component Two of the project involves developing a strategic framework for sustainable ICT materials
production. This will require close and ongoing consultation with materials designers/developers,
distributors, existing laboratories and centers, project teams, teachers, users, families etc.
E' Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more saifeguard areas
] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F Disclosure Requirements
lEnvironmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected      Actual
I)ate of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure



5
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop
Liam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual
late of receipt by the Bank
Elate of "in-country" disclosure
Elate of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Mary (Canning                               06/13/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Adriana Jordanova Damianova              06/21/02
Sector Manager/Director:      Ernesto P. Cuadra                           06/21/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SfiCN   .               - 5. SITE MAP    -  SHOWCASE



