Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4726 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
E-Learning Support Project 
 
(First Phase of the Adaptable Program Loan) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 7, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4726 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 2004, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 27, 2003, from the 
Minister of Education of the Russian Federation on behalf of the Borrower describing a 
phased program (the Program) of support for introduction and enhanced use of 
information and communication  technologies in the education system at the general and 
initial vocational level
,
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to implementation of 
the Program; 
(B) 
 the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of the 
Program through extension to the Borrower of the Adaptable Program Loan consisting of 
two phases for the total amount up to the equivalent of US$300,000,000 over a period of  
seven (7) years; 
(C)  
 the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, which constitutes the first phase of the 
Program;  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, and as 
support for the execution of the first phase of the Program, to extend the Loan to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, on the understanding 
that the second phase of the Program will be implemented based on the results of the first 
phase. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  3
2
-
-
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“ICT” means information and communication technologies; 
(c)  “Interministerial Working Group” means the group for Project preparation 
and implementation, established by the Borrower through the MOE, which 
is acting in accordance with the provisions of Section A.1 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
(d)  “MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, or any successor 
thereto; 
(e) 
“MOEDT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Development and 
Trade, or any successor thereto; 
(f)  
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor 
thereto; 
(g) 
“NTF” means the National Training Foundation, a non-profit organization 
established pursuant to the Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation     
No. 1273-P, dated August 12, 1994, acting on the basis of its Charter registered by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, dated September 29, 1994, and re-registered by the 
Moscow Registration Chamber on February 28, 2001 (Registration No. 002033537), as 
the same such Charter may be amended from time to time, or any successor thereto; 
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual setting forth the procedures and 
rules related to Project implementation to be adopted by NTF satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank; 
(i) 
“Participating Regions” means subjects of the Russian Federation selected 
by the MOE and agreed with the Interministerial Working Group in accordance with the 
Page  4
3
-
-
established criteria, which are proposed to serve as pilot testing regions for ICT 
introduction under the Project; 
(j) 
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower, represented by the MOF and MOE, and the NTF in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same such 
Agreement may be amended from time to time; 
(k)  “Regional Participation Agreement” means the agreements to be entered 
into between the MOE, NTF and each Participating Region in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same such Agreements may be 
amended from time to time;  
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
(m) “Strategic Management Committee” means the committee established by 
the Borrower through the MOE and NTF for the purposes of Bank projects in the 
education sector, which is carrying out defined tasks related to the Project, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 5 of this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the “Project 
implementation entity” shall be deemed as a reference to the NTF. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred  million dollars (US$100,000,000), to support the first phase of the Program. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
4
-
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be payable not later than sixty 
(60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date 
of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from 
and including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 
following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of 
this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in US dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or 
next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
Page  6
5
-
-
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall: 
(a) 
 carry out the Project through the MOE with the assistance of the NTF 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and education practices;  
(b) 
 take or cause to be taken all actions necessary to enable the NTF to 
perform its obligations set forth in the Project Implementation Agreement and not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; 
and 
(c) 
 provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Page  7
6
-
-
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
 carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
 through the MOF and MOE, enter into an agreement with the NTF (the 
Project Implementation Agreement), on such terms as shall be acceptable to the Bank, 
which shall include terms specifying the responsibilities of the NTF in respect of 
coordination of Project activities, accounting, preparation of requests for withdrawals 
from the Loan Account, and procurement; and 
(c)  in order to implement the Project in the Participating Regions, enter into a 
Regional Participation Agreement between the MOE, NTF and each Participating 
Region, on such terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, including the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Part F of Schedule 5 of this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the continued achievement of the Pr
oject’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) 
The Borrower through the NTF shall maintain, or cause 
to be maintained, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
Page  8
7
-
-
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the NTF to: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (statement of 
expenditure details, statements of sources and uses of funds, and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in sub-paragraph (i) 
of this Section for such year so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts, and report of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the NTF to: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 (iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall cause the NTF to: 
Page  9
8
-
-
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) 
Without limitation upon the Borrower’s
 
progress 
reporting obligations set out in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower, 
through the NTF, shall furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan; 
(ii) 
sets forth a statement of expenditure details, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately the 
amounts of expenditures for different items according to the 
categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
(iii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(iv) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first full calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
Page  10
9
-
-
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first full calendar quarter, thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall 
cover such calendar quarter.  
Page  11
10
 
-
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
 
 
(b) 
the Project Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof, shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, in such a way as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project; and 
 
(c) 
the NTF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events specified in paragraphs (b) 
and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.  
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, the Project Implementation Agreement, in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, has been entered into between the Borrower, through the MOF 
and MOE, and the NTF. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
11
 
-
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or authorized Deputy 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097
Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
112008 
  (7-095) 
925-0889 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  
 Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (1 
202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
12
 
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By 
/s/  Fursenko Andrey Aleksandrovich 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Kristalina I. Georgieva 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
13
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed Expenditures 
 Category
in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, equipment 
 25,500,000 
100% of foreign  
 
and supplies 
 
 
expenditures; 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost); 
 
82%
of local 
expenditures for other 
items procured locally, 
including local 
transportation and 
insurance related to 
those items  
 
(2) 
Research and Development 
28,100,000 
 
87% of individual 
consultants;  
100% of eligible social 
charges; 79% of 
expenditures on 
consulting firms 
 
(3) 
Training 
2,600,000 
 100% 
  
 
(4) 
Goods, works and services 
40,700,000 
 
100% 
 under 
Grants 
 
(5) 
Operating 
3,100,000 
  
87% of NTF salaries; 
 Costs 
       100% 
of 
social 
charges;  
 
100%
of training;  
Page  15
14
 
-
-
84% of other costs  
 TOTAL 
100,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or expenditures for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means Project related costs and expenses related to 
study tours, seminars, workshops and other training activities, which will be carried out 
other than through a goods, works or services provider’s contract, in accordance with a 
procedure acceptable to the Bank, including travel expenses of trainees, trainers, 
representatives of ministries and administration, and other relevant organizations of 
federal and regional levels, which are involved in Project implementation; 
 
(d) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable expenses incurred by the 
NTF on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring set forth in the 
approved annual budget of the NTF, adopted pursuant to the provisions of the 
Operational Manual, including the cost of: (i) maintenance of office equipment and 
facilities and minor office renovation; (ii) office goods, furniture, stationary and supplies; 
(iii) rent and utilities; (iv) Project management related training and seminars, conferences 
and study tours, including the cost of training materials; (v) communication; (vi) 
remuneration of NTF staff, including social charges; (vii) transportation and travel; and 
(viii) Project-related auditing services, bank charges and supervision costs; and 
 
(e) 
 
the term “Grants” means purpose-oriented financing, awarded in 
accordance with procedures set forth in the Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank, 
to educational establishments, state and non-state organizations, or groups of authors and 
individuals, for purposes consistent with the objectives of the Project, including, inter 
alia, the development of a unified telecommunication infrastructure; the creation, testing 
and implementation of new training materials, and innovative educational projects; the 
creation of conditions for implementation of ICT in education in Russian regions; 
training; and the dissemination and discussion of project results and achievements 
through conferences and workshops. 
 
Page  16
15
 
-
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of US$500,000 may be made before that date but after May 31, 2003; and  
(b) any expenditure under any Category in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule unless the Bank has received payment in full of the fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding US$250,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts 
not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each; (d) training; and (e) operating costs.
Page  17
16
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out its education 
modernization program goals of improving the accessibility, quality and efficiency of 
Russia’s general and  initial vocational education.   
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Learning Materials
Assistance in the form of capacity building support (including Grants) relating to: 
 
1. 
Development of a regulatory framework for materials development and use. 
 
2. 
Developing, purchasing, licensing and distributing a range of critical learning 
materials for efficient use of ICT in education. 
 
3. 
Testing materials that would focus on embedding ICT in teaching and learning 
practices. 
 
Part B
:
Teacher Training in the Educational Use of ICT
Provision of assistance in the form of capacity building support (including 
Grants) for: 
 
1. 
Organization of training of new and existing teachers and education managers in 
the use of ICT in education. 
 
2. 
Instructional design and development capacity in learning materials production. 
 
3.  Development of general education institutions providing teaching for children, 
including those with special needs, using distance education support where 
appropriate. 
 
Part C:
Development of a Network of Interschool Resource Centers 
Provision of assistance in the form of capacity building support (including 
Grants) relating to establishing a network of interschool resource centers for: 
 
1. 
Strategic planning for effective use of ICT in education. 
Page  18
17
 
-
-
2. 
Teacher support, training and advisory services. 
 
3. 
Dissemination of ICT in education practices. 
 
4. 
Extending curriculum offerings, including support through selected distance 
education services to ensure equal access. 
 
5. 
Extending access to new learning materials and educational resources, including 
the local community. 
 
6. 
Technical assistance for ICT implementation in schools.  
 
Part D
:
Project Management
Provision of support for project implementation through the NTF.   
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007 
Page  19
18
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
*
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2009 
 
 through 
October 
15, 
2020 
   4,165,000 
 
and on April 15, 2021 
 
 
 
4,205,000 
 
 
 
_____________________ 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  20
19
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto may be applied to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines subject to modifications agreed with the Borrower and attached 
as Annex 1 to this Schedule.  
Page  21
20
 
-
-
2. International 
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures, after 
at least three quotations have been obtained, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, after at 
least three quotations have been obtained, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which must be procured as an extension of an existing contract, or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or are 
of a proprietary nature, or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee 
 may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
  Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review 
With respect to each contract: (i) estimated to cost the equivalent a total of 
US$250,000 or more; and (ii) all contracts for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part C.4 of Section 1 of this Schedule above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  22
21
 
-
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1. Con
sultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than a total of 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract, or for specific assignments where participation of 
foreign firms is not appropriate or justified, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for highly specialized assignments, including: 
 
(a) 
development of the regulatory framework for creating and using new-
generation digital learning materials in the education sphere, training and teaching 
modules and materials; 
 
(b) 
setting up collections of digital information objects for use in the 
education sphere, including acquisition of rights and licenses; 
Page  23
22
 
-
-
(c) 
development of special software and digital training management tools; 
 
(d) 
creation of innovative teaching and learning materials in key educational 
areas; 
 
(e) 
examination and testing of these materials in practice; 
 
(f) 
rendering support to educational portal functioning; 
 
(g) 
teacher training in use of ICT; 
 
(h) 
training of pedagogical design specialists; 
(i) 
certification of specialists in ICT field; 
 
(j) 
strategic planning for effective use of ICT in education and monitoring 
development of regional ICT education programs; 
 
(k) 
development of a network of Interschool Resource Centers (IRC) in 
Project Regions, including in-service training; and 
(l) 
provision of distance education services to ensure equal access to education;  
 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
2. Selecti
on
Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for assignments similar to those listed in Part C.1 above, estimated to 
cost less than a total of US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for customizing proprietary software, for development of curricula, for 
testing new training materials, or for strategic planning, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  24
23
 
-
-
4. 
Eligibility of State-Owned and Other Research Institutes
Short lists for assignments to be procured under the provisions of Parts C.1, C.2 
or C.3 of this Section may include, or be entirely composed of, suitable government- 
owned entities (scientific and research institutes, state unitary education organizations, 
state electronic materials and cinema production organizations, state publishers, 
institutions of culture, and all types and levels of educational institutions and interschool 
resource centers). 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for analytical, reviewing, and evaluation assignments, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any request for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review 
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of a total of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of a total of US$50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
The Bank may require prior reviews of other terms of reference for 
consulting firms and individual consultants, not included in sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph 2. 
Page  25
24
 
-
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.   
 
Page  26
25
 
-
-
Annex 1 
To  
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
 
Contracts for goods or works for which Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement 
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations. In order to 
assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be 
modified as set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Eligibility 
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall 
be placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on 
requirements to joint-venture with national firms. 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, 
material or equipment. 
5. 
Government-owned entities shall be eligible to participate in bidding for 
contracts if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate 
under commercial law and are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
Standard Bidding Documents 
6. 
Until a modified version of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been 
approved for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 
Page  27
26
 
-
-
Advertising Bidding Opportunities; Time for Bid Preparation 
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least thirty (30) days for bid preparation and 
submission of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelf goods or 
standard specification commodities or small value works).  
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex 
contracts shall be advertised.  
9. 
 Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post 
qualification) shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so 
specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders 
which are deemed not qualified to bid shall not be further considered and shall be 
rejected. 
Bid Opening 
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
Rebidding 
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received 
provided that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed 
capable of performing the contract.  
Bid Evaluation 
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so 
specified shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of 
bids for goods and works contracts.  
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be 
present during evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to 
any bidder until the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
Page  28
27
 
-
-
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive 
bidder. 
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior 
to contract award.  
 
Page  29
28
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 5
 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Management and Implementation of the Project
1. 
The MOE shall be responsible for the overall Project management and 
implementation, and shall organize the work of the interministerial working group on 
project preparation and implementation (the Interministerial Working Group).  The 
Interministerial Working Group shall include representatives of the MOE, MOF, 
MOEDT, NTF, regions and other stakeholders, and shall coordinate the Project, define 
Project implementation strategy, ensure approval of Project related documents, approve 
and monitor Project activities. 
2. 
The MOE shall ensure the work of a committee (the Strategic Management 
Committee) to be responsible for: (i) substantive support for Project implementation; 
(ii) review of terms of reference, budgets, implementation plans and reports related to the 
Project; and (iii) staffing and functioning of the Expert Committee of the Project, 
according to the Operational Manual. The Strategic Management Committee shall 
include representatives of the MOE, regions, the NTF and the professional community. 
3. 
The NTF shall be responsible for operational management and implementation of 
the Project and shall help the Strategic Management Committee to coordinate Project 
activities, and also shall be responsible for financial management, procurement, 
disbursement of Loan funds and preparing Project reports. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the NTF at all 
times functions in a manner, and with staff, consultants, facilities and other resources 
necessary for the management and implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
B. 
Annual (Quarterly) Reports and Work Program
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the NTF to: (a) provide to the Bank, by April 1 of each 
year throughout the execution of the Project, an annual report on the progress of Project 
implementation, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
including a draft annual project implementation plan for the following year; and (b) carry 
out annual assessments to monitor the impact of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each quarter, a quarterly progress report, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  30
29
 
-
-
outlining progress made in the implementation of the Project, as well as the problems 
encountered and how they are being addressed. 
 
3. 
Regarding the training programs to be carried out under the Project, the 
Borrower, through the NTF, shall: 
 
(a) 
select the beneficiaries and the providers of such training programs in 
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
not later than December 31 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the annual results of the training programs and the benefits derived 
therefrom. 
 
C. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
1. 
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 and Schedule 1 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that necessary annual allocations will be 
made within the Federal 
budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs 
of the Project, taking into account the contribution to be provided from the Participating 
Regions, according to paragraph C.2 of this Schedule. 
2. 
Each Participating Region shall provide, as cofinancing of Project expenditures, 
the necessary annual allocations from the consolidated budget of this region in an amount 
not less then 50% of the portion of the Loan intended for financing the corresponding 
Project activities in this region.  
3.  Outcomes of competitive bidding procedures for the procurement of goods, 
works and services under the Project shall be grounds for the provision of 
counterpart funding from the Federal budget and/or consolidated budgets of 
Participating Regions as envisaged by this Agreement.  
D. Grants
1. 
Recipients of Grants under the Project shall be selected in accordance with 
specific eligibility criteria and a model grant agreement set forth in the Operational 
Manual acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  31
30
 
-
-
2. 
The items eligible to be financed under the Grants (goods, works and services) 
shall be determined by the Borrower through the NTF in accordance with criteria 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower, through the NTF, shall: 
 
(a) 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2005, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph E (a) of this 
Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 1, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph E (b) of this Schedule, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
F. Participating 
Regions
The Borrower though the MOE shall ensure the commitment of the Participating 
Regions to the objectives of the Project, through the inclusion of appropriate provisions 
in the Regional Participation Agreements, including that the Participating Regions shall:   
(a) 
adopt or revise regional e-learning programs to ensure consistency with 
the objectives, tasks, timeframe and content of the Project Implementation Plan, 
including modernization of the methodological services and professional upgrading 
system;  
 
(b) 
develop, agree with the Strategic Management Committee, 
approve and ensure execution of regional Project Implementation Plans in 
accordance with Project objectives, tasks and timeframe; 
 
(c) 
develop, agree with the Strategic Management Committee, and approve 
the required regulatory and legal documents to define Project implementation 
Page  32
31
 
-
-
mechanisms, and ensure the functioning of the interschool resource center network after 
Project completion; 
 
(d) 
through agreements with local governments, make changes required for 
efficient Project implementation, inter alia, to the regulatory documentation for schools 
and curriculum advisory services; and 
 
(e) 
ensure timely provision of financial and other reports in compliance with 
the Regional Participation Agreements. 
Page  33
32
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)  the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)  the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to US$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of US$6,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Page  34
33
 
-
-
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required 
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
Page  35
34
 
-
-
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a)  
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b)    
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c)    
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)    
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
