                                Document of
                              The World Bank


                                                  Report No: ICR00001010




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-47260)




                                  ON A

                                  LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION


                                  TO THE

                           RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                  FOR A

                      E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT

                IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
        GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION MODERNIZATION PROGRAM




                              December 30, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2008)
                             Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
                                    1.00 = US$ 0.036
                                US$ 1.00 = 27.36 Rubles

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL   Adaptable Program Loan                IVE     Initial Vocational Education
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy           LA      Loan Agreement
CIS   Complex Information Sources           M&E Monitoring and Evaluation
DER   Digital Educational Resources         MMS Municipal Methodological Services
EAC   Expert Analytical Center              MOES Ministry of Education and Science
EIP   Education Innovation Project          NTF     National Training Foundation
ELSP E-Learning Support Project             PAD     Project Appraisal Document
FM   Financial Management                   PDL     Portfolio Development Loan
FMR   Financial Monitoring Report           PDO     Project Development Objective
GOR   Government of Russia                  PISA    Program for International Student
GSE   General Secondary Education                   Assessment
ICR   Implementation Completion and         PIU     Project Implementation Unit
     Results Report                         QER     Quality Enhancement Review
ICT   Information and Communication         RAE     Russian Academy of Education
     Technologies                           RCC     Regional Coordination Center
ICTE  Information and Communication         SITLMs Sets of Innovative Teaching and
     Technologies in Education                      Learning Materials
IMC   Interschool Methodological Center     SL      Supplemental Letter
IOI   Intermediate Outcome Indicator        SSP     Sector Strategy Paper
IRC   Interschool Resource Center           TIMSS Trends in International Mathematics
ISR   Implementation Status and Results             and Science Study
     Report                                 TLM     Teaching and Learning Materials
ISTLM Innovative Sets of Teaching and       USE     Unified State Examination
     Learning Materials


                         Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director:       Klaus Rohland
                         Sector Director:      Tamar Manuelyan Atinc
                        Sector Manager:        Mamta Murthi
                  Project Team Leader:         Isak Froumin
                      ICR Team Leader:         Olena Bekh
                           ICR Authors:        Olena Bekh/Juan Diego Alonso

                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                              E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT



                                                   CONTENTS

Data Sheet

A. Basic Information............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis.......................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... viii
H. Restructuring............................................................................................................... viii
I. Disbursement Profile...................................................................................................... ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes................................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 24
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................... 52
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 53

Map IBRD 33470

A. Basic Information

                                                                      e-Learning Support
Country:                Russian Federation     Project Name:
                                                                      Project (APL #1)
Project ID:             P075387                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-47260
ICR Date:               01/05/2009             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                    Borrower:
                                                                      RUSSIA
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 97.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
National Training Foundation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/27/2002     Effectiveness:         02/28/2005        02/28/2005
Appraisal:             03/17/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/02/2004     Mid-term Review:       02/01/2007        02/12/2007
                                      Closing:               06/30/2008        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:            Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Highly Satisfactory    Performance:           Highly Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry      None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             30                  30
Primary education                                             20                  20
Secondary education                                           20                  20
Vocational training                                           30                  30


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for the knowledge economy                          Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:          Shigeo Katsu                     Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:        Klaus Rohland                    Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Manager:          Mamta Murthi                     Maureen Anne McLaughlin
Project Team Leader:     Isak Froumin                     Mary Canning
ICR Team Leader:         Olena Bekh
ICR Primary Author:      Olena Bekh
                         Juan Diego Alonso



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) in the Loan Agreement (LA) was "to assist
the Borrower in carrying out its education modernization program goals of improving the
accessibility, quality and efficiency of Russia's general and initial vocational education".
In the context of an E-Learning Support Project the PDO is understood to be referring to
education modernization through improving skills and competencies in using Information
and Communication Technologies (ICT).
  A slightly more detailed formulation was used, however, in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), where it was specified that during phase one, the proposed project
would support the program goals of improving the accessibility, quality, and relevance of
Russia's general and first level vocational education, to the benefit both of learning


                                             ii

outcomes (improvement in school-leavers' ability to use their knowledge and skills in
order to meet real-life challenges) and of labor-market outcomes (improvement in school-
leavers "ability to find well-paid jobs in new occupations"). Specifically, the project
support ICT competencies through support to: (i) development of new learning materials;
(ii) support for both pre-service and in-service teacher training in the introduction of ICT
into teaching and learning; and (iii) establishing not less than 200 resource centers to
improve access to ICT enhanced education opportunities and to disseminate new teaching
practices.

  There is a discrepancy between the two PDO definitions in that the LA refers to the
"efficiency" dimension whereas the PAD uses the word "relevance". It is important to
point out, however, that the spirit of the Project and all of its activities were clearly about
improving relevance and to provide a radically new way to impart education by focusing
on skills that would be marketable for future high-school graduates. Actually, in the
Economics of Education jargon, the "marketability of skills formed in the school system"
is sometimes referred to as "external efficiency". This may explain why the LA may
have had this discrepancy, but for the purposes of measuring achievement of the PDOs,
the two formulations can be considered as equivalent in this case. Therefore, for the
purposes of our analysis throughout the ICR, we will exclusively refer to the PAD-stated
PDO which refers to "relevance".

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective was not revised.

  The PAD (dated January 20, 2004) had originally established six performance
indicators to measure the PDO. Per the amendments carried out under the Supplemental
Letter (SL) dated December 7, 2004, the number of PDO indicators was reduced. This
new agreed plan contained three of the original six. The remaining three were re-stated as
output indicators (or performance indicators, by component) instead.

  The PAD (dated January 20, 2004) had originally established six intermediate outcome
indicators (or also called output indicators or performance indicators, by component). Per
the amendments carried out under the SL dated December 7, 2004, there was an increase
in the number of intermediate outcome indicators. This new agreed plan contained all six
originally set in the PAD, three of the original six PDO indicators, plus six new
indicators. Targets for 2 of the 15 IOI indicators were set by September 2006. All other
targets were available from the start of the project in February 2005.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                             approval            Target       Completion or
                                            documents)           Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of 9th grade graduates in project regions demonstrating ICT-
                competence.
Value           47.7%*                   More than 50%**                     63.2%



                                             iii

quantitative or
Qualitative)    *No baseline value          **The target value
                existed, since the          was determined
                instrument for measuring after the first test
                information & ICT           took place.
                competence was
                developed during the
                lifetime of the project.
                Therefore, the first round
                of administration of this
                instrument can be
                considered the baseline.
Date achieved 02/28/2005                    05/10/2007                         06/30/2008

Comments        OVER-ACHIEVED: 126%

(incl. %        Results for the first year showed a 47.7% of 9th-grade students demonstrating

achievement)    ICT competence. The results for the following years showed a significant
                increase, first, to 54% in 2006/07, & later on, to 63.2%, in 2007/08

Indicator 2 :   Number of teachers in project regions demonstrating ICT-competence.

                79%*
                *No baseline value
                existed, since the
                instrument for measuring
Value           ICT competence was
quantitative or developed during the        "Over 50%"                         86%
Qualitative)    lifetime of the project.
                Therefore, the first round
                of administration of this
                instrument can be
                considered the baseline.
Date achieved 02/28/2005                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
                OVER-ACHIEVED: 172%
Comments
(incl. %        The ICT Competence Test for teachers took place in school years 2006/07 &
achievement)    2007/08. Results for the first round of testing showed that 79% of the teachers
                were ICT competent. The second presented a slight increase: 86%.

Indicator 3 :   Number of general education and initial vocational education institutions in
                project regions with improved use of ICT in education
                No baseline value existed,

Value           since the instrument for

quantitative or measuring ICT school        "Over 50%"                         72.1%
Qualitative)    progress was developed
                during the lifetime of the
                project.
Date achieved 02/28/2005                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008

Comments        OVER-ACHIEVED: 144%

(incl. %        The indicator "improved use of ICT in education" was operationalized for

achievement)    monitoring purposes as the no. of schools that improved their assessed ICT level.
                72.1% of schools improved their ICT level from 2005/06 to 2007/08.



                                                 iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Number of sets of Digital Education Resources (DER) incorporated into the
               national educational e-collection.
Value
(quantitative  0                          75,000                             75,172
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008

Comments       FULLY ACHIEVED: 100% - The indicator was achieved by the closing date,

(incl. %       with a total of 75,172 DERs incorporated into the national education e-collection.

achievement)   Out of this total, 61,428 DERs were already available for open access to the
               public as of 4/1/2008.
Indicator 2 :  Number of sets of digital resources supporting the existing learning materials.
Value          0
(quantitative                              100                               127

or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008

Comments       OVER-ACHIEVED: 127%

(incl. %       127 sets of DERs supporting textbooks were created, 125 of which were made

achievement)   available in the "open access" collection.

Indicator 3 :  Number of sets of innovative e-learning materials produced.
Value
(quantitative  0                          45                                 102
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008

Comments       OVER-ACHIEVED: 227% - A total of 102 innovative Teaching and Learning

(incl. %       Materials (TLMs) were produced: 33 Sets of Innovative Teaching and Learning

achievement)   Materials (SITLMs) and 69 Complex Information Sources (CIS).

Indicator 4 :  Number of testing centers created (in 7 pilot regions).
                                                                             59 in pilot regions

Value
(quantitative  0                          60                                 (96 more across rest

or Qualitative)                                                              of Russian
                                                                             Federation)

Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008

Comments       FULLY ACHIEVED: 100%-59 testing centers established during the first phase

(incl. %       of the program (through 8/30/06) in the 7 pilot regions. Due to logistical

achievement)   capability problems to test the TLMs produced, an additional 96 centers were
               established across RF.
Indicator 5 :  % of schools in the Project regions that received new generation teaching and



                                               v

               learning materials developed under the Project.
Value
(quantitative  0                           100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       FULLY ACHIEVED: Achievement - 100%
achievement)

Indicator 6 :  % of schools in the project regions that introduced new generation teaching and
               learning materials into the curriculum.
Value
(quantitative  0                           Not less than 50%                  68%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       OVER-ACHIEVED: 136%
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Number of training programs in the use of ICT for teaching and learning created.
Value
(quantitative  0                           28                                 42
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       OVER-ACHIEVED: 150%
achievement)
Indicator 8 :  Number of teachers trained in programs of developing basic ICT competence.
Value
(quantitative  0                           60,000                             62,364
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                          06/30/2008

Comments       FULLY ACHIEVED: 104% - The total no. of teachers trained in the 22 regions

(incl. %       where this activity was run was slightly larger than the no. planned. Furthermore,

achievement)   an extra 14,000 educ staff (including school administrators & librarians) were
               also trained.
Indicator 9 :  Number of online educators and curators trained in the area of Internet education.
Value
(quantitative  0                           500                                1,119
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                          06/30/2008

Comments       OVER-ACHIEVED: 224%

(incl. %       The total number of curators trained under the Project was 381 and the total

achievement)   number of online educators reached 738.


Indicator 10 : Number of students enrolled in distance learning courses under the project,
               including those ones in rural areas.
Value
(quantitative  21,260                      5,000                              37,428
or Qualitative)



                                                vi

Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
               OVER-ACHIEVED: 748% - The total no. of students enrolled on distance-
Comments       learning courses grew by 75% during the Project's lifetime (from 21,260 to
(incl. %       37,428). Of particular interest was the fact that more than 10% of total
achievement)   enrollment came from rural populations.


Indicator 11 : Number of instructional designers trained in the development of digital teaching
               and learning materials.
Value
(quantitative  0                           200                               570
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
               OVER-ACHIEVED: 285%
Comments       570 instructional designers were trained in the development of digital TLMs, 270
(incl. %       of which were teacher training university students specializing in instructional
achievement)   design.


Indicator 12 : Number of teachers trained in Interschool Resource Centers (IRCs) to use e-
               learning materials created under the project.
                                                                             51,868

Value                                                                        (An additional
(quantitative  0                           50,000                            15,448 were trained
or Qualitative)                                                              with additional
                                                                             regional financing)

Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       FULLY ACHIEVED: 104%
achievement)

Indicator 13 : Number of methodologists (tutors) involved in teacher training and support
               trained under the project.
                                                                             1605

Value                                                                        (An additional 75
(quantitative  0                           1,500                             were trained with
or Qualitative)                                                              additional regional
                                                                             financing)

Date achieved 02/28/2005                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       ACHIEVED: 107%
achievement)

Indicator 14 : Number of students participating in telecommunication educational projects
               under the project, including those ones in rural areas.

Value                                      7,209*

(quantitative  0                                                             23,000

or Qualitative)                           *The decision on
                                          the target for this


                                               vii

                                           particular indicator
                                           was made after
                                           there was a final
                                           decision on the
                                           number of
                                           telecommunication
                                           educational
                                           projects.

Date achieved 02/28/2005                   09/01/2006                         06/30/2008

Comments       ACHIEVED: 319% - The indicator significantly over-achieved the target due to

(incl. %       the significant increase in enrollment, towards the end of the Project, of many

achievement)   students from distant schools in the project regions preparing for the Unified
               State Examination (USE)
               Number of regions introducing e-education programs approved by the Ministry
Indicator 15 : of Education and Science (MOES) out of total number of regions receiving
               grants.
Value
(quantitative  0                           8*                                 8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2005                   09/01/2006                         06/30/2008
               ACHIEVED: 100%
Comments       This indicator reflected the expectation that a set of new regions could have e-
(incl. %       education programs also fully in place. A total of 8 new regions were able to
achievement)   successfully establish these programs by June 2008.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     04/07/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/08/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     12/22/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     03/30/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.00
  5     02/01/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     30.57
  6     11/08/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     46.85
  7     05/10/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     61.22
  8     11/20/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     74.36
  9     06/27/2008           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     95.75



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               viii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           ix

          1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal



Russia's transition to a market economy since the fall of the Soviet Union led to an increase in the
inequality in the distribution of income across the constituent regions of the newly formed
Federation. At the time of preparation of this Project, a few of Russia's regions were able to
capitalize on their resource endowments, location and other factors to increase per capita income
relative to the rest of the economy. At the end of last and beginning of this century, the
decentralization of the delivery of basic social services to the population, like education, suffered
along the way, with Russia's poorest regions struggling to, first, adequately fund their inherited
education systems, and second, to maintain the basic requirements needed for learning
achievement in schools.

The first problem, the variations in quality or relevance of the knowledge to be imparted,
compounded the asymmetries across regions due to the varying degrees by which educational
reform was undertaken nationally. The second problem, lack of appropriate funding, transmitted
the inequities of the economic system into the classrooms by generating immediate adverse
effects on access to various education opportunities to potentially competent but financially poor
students, who could have otherwise better chances to receive more advance education and
theoretically develop more marketable skills that would allow them to benefit from better
opportunities in life. Furthermore, early specialization and streaming of students in both the
general secondary education (GSE) and Initial Vocational Education (IVE) systems usually
resulted in poor students and over-aged students not receiving the kind of education that would
either equip them to function in a market economy or enable them to pursue lifelong learning or
to undertake retraining needs.

Russian students continued to perform relatively well in subject-matter-based international
assessments, like mathematics and science in the recognized Trends in International Mathematics
and Science Study (TIMSS). However, the results for other international assessments measuring
the degree of adaptability of the education system to produce students with skills that would be
relevant to real life situations, like OECD's Program for International Student Assessment (PISA),
presented startlingly opposite results. The 2000 round of PISA showed, for instance, that among
31 countries that participated in that year's testing, Russia's 15-year-old students ranked 27th in
reading literacy, 26th in scientific literacy and 22nd in mathematical literacy.

In addition to the inter-regional inequities aggravated during the transition years, intra-regional
differences got exacerbated, especially between urban and rural areas. Most schools in remote
and rural regions of Russia did not have an education of equivalent quality level to their urban
counterparts simply because teachers working in these rural areas kept facing ever reduced
opportunities for professional development and a general lack of an adequate environment, not
only given by antiquated facilities in poor state, but also for a general dearth of adequate teaching
and learning resources, as well as considerable variations in overall resource allocation between
urban and rural areas, and therefore variations in learning outcomes between and within regions.
Of all the country's general secondary schools, over 70% were in rural areas; and they employed
around 41% of the teachers. Enrolment rates for 15-22 year-olds were much higher in urban than
in rural areas, with rural areas accounting for less than a third of total enrollment at the secondary
education level.




                                                   1

The Government of Russia (GOR), increasingly aware that urgent measures were needed to
ensure that Russia can keep up with technological change and global knowledge resources,
decided to prepare a strategy to tackle these problems. This strategy recognized that the under-
funded and deteriorating education system would affect the availability of a well-educated supply
of human capital and the growth of a flexible and well-trained labor force, especially in view of
the fact that rapid expansion of ICT in all areas of economic and social life poses new challenges
for modern generations of workers. Ultimately, it was also recognized that the impact of these
forces on the already troubled school system might pose serious threats to Russia's survival as a
major world economic and scientific power. In order to tackle the issues of access, quality and
relevance of the education system, the Russian authorities gathered that the introduction of ICT in
day-to-day practices would help narrow gaps in all fronts.

The first stage of this general strategy, quite naturally, simply comprised equipping schools with
the hardware (computers, printers, Internet connection) needed to launch the second part of the
strategy: embedding ICT in educational practices. This was the stage at which the E-Learning
Support Project came into place and this was the key priority at the time of Project appraisal. It is
critical to mention, however, that both in its lending program and in its educational sector work,
the Bank had been already contributing, prior to the launching of the ELSP, to the GOR's broader
agenda of addressing the recovery of social capital as a major goal of the then-new Government's
reform program. In terms of lending, the Bank had approved two loans to the Russian
Government: the Education Innovation Project (EIP, 1997-2004) and the Education Reform
Project (2002­2006). In terms of sector work, two pieces significantly contributed to shaping the
reform agenda. The first one, "Reforming Education in the Regions of Russia" (1999) 1 ,
influenced the policy thrust of the Education Modernization Program.        The second report, "E-
Learning Policy to Transform Russian Schools" (2003)2, provided key guidance on ICT-related
issues by identifying priority measures to address the key sector issues: (i) equality of access; (ii)
enhanced teaching and learning for the information age and (iii) development of appropriate skills
by both teachers and students.

The role of the pioneering ELSP Project was especially emphasized in the 2003-2006 CAS
Progress Report as an instrument for supporting better access to quality education for students in
remote destinations. The ELSP PDO is fully consistent with the Strategic Objectives of 2007-
2009 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and falls under the Strategic Goal 3 "Improving
Delivery of Social & Communal Services". This Project strategy is also completely in line with
the special focus of the current CPS on strengthening growth, governance and service delivery in
Russia's regions.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective and Key Indicators (as approved)

According to the Loan Agreement (LA) the objective of the Project was "...to assist the Borrower
in carrying out its education modernization program goals of improving the accessibility, quality
and efficiency of Russia's general and initial vocational education". A slightly more detailed
formulation was used, however, in the PAD, where it was specified that "...during phase one, the
proposed Project would support the program goals of improving the accessibility, quality, and
relevance of Russia's general and first level vocational education, to the benefit both of learning
outcomes (improvement in school-leavers' ability to use their knowledge and skills in order to



1Co-authored by Mary Canning, Peter Moock, and Timothy.Heleniak, and published under the World
Bank Technical Paper Series (#457, December 1999).
2Report No. 25893-RU, The World Bank, April 29, 2003.


                                                  2

meet real-life challenges) and of labor-market outcomes (improvement in school-leavers' ability
to find well-paid jobs in new occupations)". Specifically, the Project was to support: (i)
development of new learning materials; (ii) support for both pre-service and in-service teacher
training in the introduction of ICT into teaching and learning; and (iii) establishing not less than
200 resource centers to improve access to ICT enhanced education opportunities and to
disseminate new teaching practices."

There is a discrepancy between the two definitions in that the LA refers to efficiency in its 3rd
PDO and the PAD uses relevance. It is important to point out, however, that the spirit of the
Project and all of its activities were clearly about improving relevance and to provide a radically
new way to impart education by focusing on skills that would be marketable for future high-
school graduates. Actually, in the Economics of Education jargon, the "marketability of skills
formed in the school system" is sometimes referred to as "external efficiency". This may explain
why the LA may have had this discrepancy, but for the purposes of measuring achievement of the
PDOs, the two formulations can be considered as equivalent in this case. Therefore, for the
purposes of our analysis throughout the ICR, we will exclusively refer to the PAD stated PDO
which refers to "relevance".

In terms of indicators, originally, as indicated in Section F, the objectives were to be assessed by
six outcome indicators and six output indicators (usually referred to as intermediate outcome
indicators or specific performance indicators by component).

However, prior to effectiveness, the GOR requested to change outcome and output indicators. Per
acknowledgment of the letter from the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian
Federation (Supplemental Letter dated December 7, 2004) the Bank agreed to the following new
list of three outcome indicators and fifteen output indicators.

Outcome indicators:
PDO Indicator 1:          Number of 9th-grade students in Project regions demonstrating ICT-
competence.
PDO Indicator 2:          Number of teachers in Project regions demonstrating ICT-competence.
PDO Indicator 3:          Number of general schools education and initial vocational education
                          institutions in Project regions with improved use of ICT in education.

Output indicators (IOI):

Component 1: New Generation Teaching and Learning Materials

IOI 1:           The number of digital educational resources (objects) incorporated into the
                 national educational e-collection.
IOI 2:           The number of sets of digital resources supporting the existing learning materials.
IOI 3:           The number of sets of innovative e-learning materials produced.
IOI 4:           The number of testing centers created.
IOI 5:           % of schools in the Project regions that received new generation teaching and
                 learning materials developed under the Project.
IOI 6:           % of schools in the Project regions that introduced new generation teaching and
                 learning materials into the curriculum


Component 2: Teacher Training in the Educational Use of ICT



                                                   3

IOI 7:             The number of training programs in the use of ICT for teaching and learning
                   created.
IOI 8:            The number of teachers trained in programs of developing basic ICT competence.
IOI 9:             The number of online educators and curators trained in the area of Internet
                   education.
IOI 10:            The overall number of students enrolled in distance courses under the Project,
                   including those ones in rural areas3.
IOI 11:            The number of instructional designers trained in development of digital teaching
                   and learning materials.

Component 3: Creating a network of Interschool Resource Centers

IOI 12:            The number of teachers trained in IRCs to use e-learning materials created under
                   the Project.
IOI 13:            The number of methodologists (tutors) trained, involved in teacher training and
                   methodological support.
IOI 14:            The number of students participating in telecommunication4 educational projects
                   under the Project, including those ones in rural areas5.
IOI 15:            The number of regions which introduced e-education programs up to 2010
                   (passed EAC expertise and approved by the MOES) out of the total number of
                   regions which received grants.

This ICR evaluates the achievement of the Project's objectives based on the above indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

There were two primary target groups of the Project. The first one consisted of students who were
to benefit through the increase of their ICT competency from the acquisition of new, flexible
problem-solving and team-working skills, from the development of the new ICT-intense school
learning environment, the use of innovative e-learning materials and curricula, as well as access
to the new generation of digital resources. In particular, the use of computer-based courses and
distance-delivery methods was to benefit students in distantly located areas, students from poorer
families, and students with special needs due to disabilities of different kinds.




3This is a complex indicator, and together with indicator 14 in Component 3, it addresses the "access"
dimension of the PDO (please see Section 3.2 on this). At the same time, it demonstrates that enrollment of
students in distance learning courses is based on substantial ICT-competence, developed in students and
teachers, that allows them to use ICT as an instrument for improving access to education. In this section,
the indicators listed follow the original Project design and the order set up in the original Project's Results
Framework,

4Telecommunication education projects are education projects implemented by school teams via the
Internet

5The comment in footnote 3 applies here, as well.


                                                       4

The second primary target group involved teachers who were to benefit from acquiring new, and
more appropriate to the current challenging social and economic environment, teaching methods
and practices, using new generation of learning materials engaging students in more active ways
of learning; as well as access to various professional development opportunities, creative
activities and rich depository of knowledge and expertise allowing higher quality teaching.

Due to the strong regional focus of the Project also school administrators, employees of the wide
network of resource centers to be developed under the Project, employers and local communities
in participating regions were to be among the secondary beneficiaries of the Project through the
increased possibility for better communication and networking, increased community
participation in supporting local initiatives, enabling industry participation and encouraging
lifelong learning6. Professional groups such as educational software developers were to benefit
from receiving access to new domestic and international markets. Finally, the Government as a
whole would benefit from the successful implementation of Project activities, improved
coordination among the levels of education administration, increased capacity for policy
evaluation and monitoring and enhanced ability to take over the Project activities in scaling up
future operations.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component One: Learning Materials - US$35.1 million (total estimated cost)

This component was to remedy the critical shortfall in new-generation learning materials in
Russia by: (i) developing the regulatory documents for materials development and use; (ii)
developing, licensing and distributing a range of critical and exemplar learning materials to
introduce a reusable object oriented/constructivist design approach (including materials for
students who study subjects not offered at their local schools); and (iii) testing materials that
would focus on embedding ICT in teaching and learning practices.

Component Two: Teacher Training in the Educational Use of ICT- US$43.2 million
(total estimated cost)

This component was to support: (i) the training of new and existing teachers and education
managers in Project regions in the use o f ICT in education; and (ii) the development of Russian
instructional design and development capacity in learning materials production. Teacher training
would take place using the teaching and learning materials developed in Components One and
Two. An outcome of the project will be the availability of new generation teacher training
materials and advisory services throughout the Russian Federation.

Component Three: Development of a Network of Interschool Resource Centers -
US$63.45 million (total estimated cost)

The Regional and District interschool resource centers were to provide a range of services and
materials for (i) strategic planning for the effective use of ICT in education; (ii) teacher support




6 Although no quantitative indicators are available to measure the impact on these secondary beneficiaries, this
summary is the result of anecdotal evidence gathered during the ICR mission.




                                                           5

and advisory services; (iii) the dissemination of ICT in education practices; (iv) the extension of
curriculum offerings to isolated regions by providing support for selected distance education
services; (v) the extension of community and industry access to training in the use of ICT and the
production of new resources and (vi) computer maintenance in schools. These centers were to be
linked with the e-Learning support centers established by the MOES at Federal level.

Component Four: Project Management - US$3.65 million (total estimated cost)

The Project was to be managed by the existing MOES Strategic Management Committee
composed of Federal Ministry officials and senior education managers from the participating
Regions. This committee was to coordinate and link GOR e-Russia and educational programs
among all stakeholders. This component was to finance: (i) the establishment of a Federal project
implementation group; (ii) the creation of capacity to monitor implementation and social
development outcomes through continuous social assessment; and (iii) transparent and effective
procurement and disbursement practice.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes in the design, scope, scale or implementation arrangements of
the Project. There were, however, some changes worth mentioning:
         It should be noted that while the Project was approved by the Board on March 2004 it
         only became effective almost a year later on February 28, 2005. This was because the
         LA was only signed on December 7, 2004 due to the civil service reform of the Federal
         Government. The effect of this delay meant that the Project implementation period was
         effectively reduced by a year.
         There was a reallocation of funds between the disbursement categories in order to better
         align and link E-Learning Support Project activities with another Federal Program known
         as Priority National Project "Education". A respective Amendment to the LA was issued
         on April 14, 2008 and countersigned by the GOR on May 26, 2008.

         2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the background analysis: A substantial effort was invested through the relevant
educational sector work in designing a quality operation. The Bank Project team requested a
Quality Enhancement Review (QER) very early in the Project design process (June 17, 2002) and
this also contributed to improving the Project's quality at entry. In particular the QER panel
recommended focusing the Project on supporting ICT-intense activities as "enabler", and make
production of "ICT-based instructional materials tailored to the needs of teachers and students...
a priority Project objective". This recommendation was included in the Project design.

The report "E-Learning Policy to Transform Russian Schools", mentioned above, also provided
guidance on ICT-related issues by identifying priority measures to address the key sectoral issues.
The ELSP also drew upon two other key sectoral documents of relevance, namely the Concept of
Modernization of Russian Education for the period up to 2010, approved by the Government in
2001 and the initiative of the State Council of the Russian Federation Project, Educational Policy



                                                 6

of Russia at the Current Stage (July 2001), which building on the Government Development
Strategy stressed three objectives: accessibility, quality and merit. The Project objectives and
design were also in line with the Government's objectives, as identified in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS).     Lastly, Project preparation was greatly facilitated by financing from the
Portfolio Development Loan (PDL), which helped to achieve a high quality level of Project
preparation by providing additional preparatory financing to complete Project preparatory
activities.

By the time of Project effectiveness, both the Bank and the GOR had substantial experience in the
design and implementation of joint lending operations in the education sector through one
completed and one on-going project supported by the Bank. Therefore, both parties were able to
draw on the lessons from these operations. Lessons learned in previous projects were well used in
the design of the Project. The following were the lessons that contributed significantly to the
success of the Project: (a) communication and coordination with major stakeholders is essential
for success in education reforms; and (b) the success of Project to a great extent depends upon an
effective dissemination strategy.

Assessment of the Project design. Overall, the Project components were well designed to ensure
the achievement of Project development objectives. The Project design was realistic by both
relying on the strong capacity of the implementing agency at the federal level - National Training
Foundation (NTF) which had the experience of implementing the Bank supported Education
Innovation Project and Education Reform Project - and the building on the strong support and
ability of the pilot regions to co-fund and co-implement the program. Substantial project
implementation expertise in the educational networks in the regions of the Russian Federation
had been accumulated prior and was further enhanced during the Project implementation due to
both the experience of participation in the Federal Program of Education Development (Phase 1)
financed from the federal budget, and the collective efforts by the GOR and various international
and local development agencies supporting programs of introduction of ICT into the learning
process. The GOR and Bank teams designing the Project were able to assess the advantages of
building on these joint efforts and leveraging the variety of resources for achieving a cumulative
effect on the learning process.

High quality expert support was provided during the Project preparation by both national experts
and international consultants who had solid experience of working with education programs in
Russia, as well as from the availability of high quality university faculty and the Russian
Academy of Education (RAE)'s expert resources.

Adequacy of government's commitment: The initially approved loan was designed as an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) that would be implemented in two phases over a period of 6.5
years to provide support to the Education Modernization Program of the GOR through the
orientation of the educational system to the global information society.

The First Phase of the program was structured to last for 42 months (3.5 years) and support the
program goals as well as those of the e-Education and e-Russia programs through: (i) the
development of sustainable Russian capacity to produce high quality, affordable and flexible
learning materials; (ii) the improvement of both pre-service and in-service teacher training in the
introduction of ICT into classrooms; and (iii) establishing a network of ICT resource centers in
Project regions.

The Second Phase of the program would have a duration of 3 years and would build upon the
experience gained in Phase One by supporting the following activities: (i) the dissemination of


                                                 7

electronic teaching and learning materials created during Phase One throughout the Russian
Federation; (ii) continued capacity building, development and launching of modern electronic
teaching and learning materials; (iii) the extension of improved teacher training programs
throughout the Federation with an increased focus on the development, in Russian teachers and
administrators, of the ability to use ICT as tools to facilitate better learning outcomes; and (iv) the
scaling up of resources availability in regions and municipalities and enhancements to the types
of support they offer.

These two APL phases were in line with the goals set up in the Development Strategy of the
Government of the Federation (May 2000), which highlighted the recovery of social capital as a
major goal of the then-new Government's reform program, and the Government's Medium Term
Reform agenda that had identified five structural reform priorities, two of which were directly
related to the objectives of this Project: (i) improving the innovative and technological potential
of the economy and (ii) reducing regional differentiation in social and economic development.

Finally, the ELSP would support two ongoing Federal Programs that aimed at moving the
Russian economy toward the knowledge era: the Development of the Common Education
Information Space for 2001-2006 (also known as E-Education) of August 2001 and Electronic
Russia for 2002­2010 (also known as E-Russia) of January 2002. The former encompassed,
among other things, two sub-programs, known as Computers for Rural Schools and Computers
for Urban Schools, which equipped schools all over the Russian Federation (RF) with computers
and related equipment. The latter comprised the connection of all towns with a population of
30,000+ people to the country's fiber-optic backbone for Internet access. These two Programs
constituted the necessary prerequisites for accelerating the introduction and integration of ICT in
education (ICTE) that would take place under the ELSP, at least in the seven pilot regions chosen
as pilots for Phase One. Especially important was implementation of the National Priority Project
Education. Within this Project all Russian schools were connected to the broadband Internet by
the end of 2007.

Assessment of risks: The identification of risks and the mitigation measures proved to be
appropriate. The Project's overall risk rating was originally rated M (modest) in the PAD. The
two critical risks which were highlighted include:

(1) (High risk): "New/amended standards for schools, initial vocational (especially new
professions) and teacher training (pre- and in-service) are not in place for courses requiring ICT
skills and core skills development".
(2) (Modest risk): "Legal and regulatory barriers remain high."

Both risks envisaged by the Project preparation team materialized during the implementation
phase and substantial effort was invested by the Government into the implementation of proactive
measures which would help mitigating these risks. The details are explained in section 2.2 of this
ICR.

During the Project implementation some minor risks that were difficult to foresee at the
preparation stage surfaced, and among them we find a delay in the signature of the Loan
Agreement due to the then-ongoing administrative reform of the Government.

2.2 Implementation

The Project was implemented smoothly. It was disbursed in full and according to the schedule. In
all the 9 Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs), the Project was always rated "S" by



                                                  8

the Bank supervision teams. It has never been restructured, suspended, cancelled or considered a
project at risk. In fact, this Project was one of the few projects in the portfolio which implemented
on time and with no particular implementation concerns.

The credit for this major achievement goes to the strong capacity of the Implementing Agency
(NTF), Government, as well as to the very proactive Bank's task team.

Most important to the success of the Project was the deep commitment of the federal as well as of
the regional governments to the reforms underpinning the Project. The commitment to reforms
was especially strong in the pilot regions. The pilot regions were also able to mobilize
considerable resources ­ well above the originally committed amount - in support of these
reforms.

The high quality of expertise, available in the professional community of the country, and the
social acceptance of the reforms supported by the Project also contributed to the success of the
Project.

In fact, the Borrower paid substantial attention to implementing appropriate mitigation measures
which could be demonstrated by the following examples:

1) In the course of the development and implementation of ICT-enabled TLMs, the Project team
faced an important problem: the general lack of educational standards and regulations needed for
a smooth and timely introduction of these new-generation TLMs into the teaching and learning
process. In order to reduce substantial delays in implementation due to the lack of this regulatory
framework, the Borrower adjusted the original Project's schedule by introducing several phases
and developing interim acceptance procedures for newly created TLMs. The Project team also
facilitated the adoption of the necessary regulatory changes at the regional level to substitute for
the lack of federal regulations and link them to TLMs' approbation7 activities under the Project.

As a result of the above, a set of methodological guidelines "Regulatory Framework for the
Informatization of Schools" was prepared. These guidelines were approved by the Department of
State Policy and Normative-Legal Regulation in Education and published on the Internet. Draft
local regulations for GSE institutions were introduced into the learning process by schools
participating in ELSP. These materials served as a basis for the development of methodological
guidelines for all RF schools within the framework of the National Priority Project "Education",
under which all RF schools were connected to Internet.

2) Lack of provisions for ICT-intense learning is still evident in the current GSE standards, so the
Project paid special attention to both the piloting and the approbation of the education standards
related to ICT use in schools in order to facilitate and speed up further review of the standards at
the federal level.

3) The Project implementation team's assessment of little availability of experienced textbook
publishers with an adequate methodological potential brought up the need for further capacity
development in this sector in order to meet the quality standards for the production of new
textbooks and learning materials. The NTF's Expert Analytical Center (EAC) performed
substantive evaluation of Project implementation at different stages and worked out



7Approbation is a necessary step in piloting newly developed curricula in selected educational institutions
before its official approval by the respective education authority.




                                                       9

recommendations on improving its effectiveness. From the Project start, all materials prepared
within the ELSP framework were to pass EAC expert examination. EAC members ­ known
specialists ­ provided constant support to all ELSP main programs. The role of expert support
grew in that phase of ELSP implementation when the new developments were to be assessed and
accepted. The Strategic Committee established five permanent expert commissions within the
EAC, which played a key role in ensuring the quality of Project materials and provided access to
the best expert resources on a permanent basis during the Project life. Please see below a list of
expert commission of the NTF Expert Analytical Center:


No.                              Commission name                                        Code
1     Expert commission for the development of teaching and learning materials  EC-1 "DER-TLM"
2     Expert commission for teacher training and instructional design           EC-2 "TT-ID"
3     Expert commission for Internet-aided instruction                          EC-3 "E-learning"
4     Expert commission for the Collection                                      EC-4 "Collection"
5     Expert commission for work with regions                                   EC-5 "RCC-IRC"

4) One of the risks highlighted in the Project design was related to the level of preparedness of the
country's regulatory environment for dealing with copyright issues in the TLM development and
utilization under the Project component providing support to the implementation of the Unified
Collection of DER. During Project implementation, several amendments to the Federal legislation
were adopted, including the copyright legislation and the law on procurement of software and
databases which required prompt adjustment of Project implementation modalities. With the view
of this particular risk, the Project team ensured legal support from the early stages of
implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: The design of the Project's indicators was such that it adequately addressed all
three axes of the PDO (access, quality and relevance) and the specific component objectives.
There were a total of 18 indicators, 3 of which were PDO indicators. All the indicators were
appropriate but it should be noted that the 3 PDO indicators only measured the quality dimension
of the PDO while the two remaining dimensions were measured by the intermediate outcome
indicators. Although it would have probably been better to have at least one PDO indicator for
each of the dimensions, in this case, given the Project's nature, the original design of the Results
Framework is deemed to be technically sound and comprehensive.

In terms of preparedness, Project targets for 15 of the 18 indicators were available at Project
Launch in February 2005. The targets for the three remaining indicators (PDO 1, IOI 14, and IOI
15) became available in late 2006. Also, it should be clarified that collection of baseline data for
the three PDO indicators depended on the actual Project implementation (launch of the
instruments), and therefore, only became available later in the Project.

M&E Implementation: The NTF closely monitored the Project through a solid M&E system,
and the results were reported regularly in both the Project progress reports and the ISRs. The
overall M&E process was implemented in full compliance with all provisions of the LA and had a
strong influence on the Project's performance.

M&E Utilization: In addition to regular monitoring and evaluation, the Government relied on
the outcomes of the Project to inform further decisions regarding education reform in Russia.
Extensive dissemination of Project results was undertaken already during this Project and the



                                                   10

Russian Government is continuing with the dissemination using its own resources as part of its
commitment to the APL program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguards were triggered.

Financial management

The periodic review of the Project financial management arrangements in NTF demonstrated that
the financial management system including accounting, internal controls and reporting remained
adequate and satisfactory to the Bank. The Financial Management (FM) Department was
adequately staffed and managed. Therefore, the Project FM rating was always satisfactory and the
overall FM risk remained at the acceptable level.

Quarterly FMRs were submitted on time and were acceptable to the Bank.

Unqualified audit reports for the Project were submitted on time and were acceptable to the Bank.

The final Project audit is underway. The audit report covering the first ten months of 2008
(including the grace period) is expected to be submitted to the Bank by January 31, 2009. This
date falls beyond the one originally agreed by the Bank in the letter on the provision of the grace
period, however, the submission of the final audit report by a later date is justified by a very high
transactions volume during the very end of the grace period (October 31, 2008).

Procurement

Procurement conducted by the PIU ­ NTF ­ can be considered satisfactory. The NTF
procurement department was staffed with skilled and experienced procurement specialists who
regularly passed different training courses. High importance was attributed to supervision of
contracts and to timely provision of deliverables. Before ELSP, and simultaneously with it, the
NTF was successfully implementing three other projects, namely, Management and Financial
Training Project, Education Innovation Project and Education Reform Project. Prior review of the
procurement process conducted by the NTF and several ex-post review exercises always showed
substantial compliance with the provisions of the procurement guidelines, the loan agreement and
agreed arrangements. The latter included awarding grants to educational institutions, public and
non-public organizations, groups of authors or individuals, on a competitive basis, all of which
allowed solving the problem of eligibility. For the purposes of creating the collection of DER, a
significant number of direct contracts were awarded to different entities which have copyrights or
exclusive property rights for those DERs.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Project outcomes have high prospects for sustainability, due to the fact that Project results
received high marks from the Government and were subsequently integrated into existing and
ongoing GoR programs.

As noted in the PAD, the initial choice of an APL instrument was based on the need to support
the long-term goals set up in the Education Modernization Strategy, in part because such an
instrument would be more flexible for implementing innovative activities and for being able to
modify, expand or disseminate these activities in Phase Two. Nonetheless, towards the end of



                                                11

APL1, the GOR decided to not implement the Second Phase using a Bank loan. It will instead
allocate its own funds under the framework of a new Federal Program designed to such effect.
Although the Government may still engage the Bank through the `new modalities', i.e. to provide
project implementation services on a fee basis, this determination of the GOR to continue
financing the activities with own sources shows the level of commitment to the Project's PDO
and the relevance acquired by the Project to the country as a whole. The National Training
Foundation has been selected as an implementing agency under the Federal Target Program of
Education Development 2009 ­ 2013 (Phase 2) to which the GOR is committed to provide 3.5
bln rubles (approximately, US$0.14 billion) annually.


                                 3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating for Relevance: High.

The objectives of the Project were and remained highly relevant throughout all stages of the
project cycle (preparation, implementation, supervision, and closure). The high significance of
the Project's objectives at the initial stage was evidenced by the strong analytical preparatory
work that preceded its preparation, both from the GOR's and the Bank's side.

Among the key documents prepared on the Bank's side, we find the CAS 2003-058 and the Sector
Strategy Paper (SSP) 2003, referred above9. The CAS emphasized the growing importance of the
knowledge society for increasing the competitiveness of the Russian economy, but also to
mitigate the social risks associated with poverty. It also brought to the forefront the GOR's desire
to develop a strong and relevant, but also modern and flexible, education system. The CAS also
emphasized the role of the Project as an instrument for supporting better access to quality
education for students in remote destinations. As mentioned above, the Project objectives
remained relevant throughout implementation, as evidenced by the stated Strategic Objectives of
the 2007-2009 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), under Strategic Goal 3 "Improving Delivery
of Social & Communal Services". The Sector Strategy Paper precisely documented the state of
the art in terms of the way education was imparted in Russia and made the case for a massive
capacity building of the system, where e-learning as a tool would be instrumental.

The aforementioned Bank's documents were fully in line with the client's top priorities as noted
in the original "Development Strategy of the Government of the Federation" (May 2000) and, in
particular, in the sector-specific initiatives envisaged in the documents "Concept of
Modernization of Russian Education for the period up to 2010" and "Educational Policy of
Russia at the Current Stage", both approved in the year 2001. The ensuing "Socio Economic
Development Program of the Russian Federation of 2003-2005 (March 2003) reaffirmed the
focus of the Project by explicitly stating the goal of improving the "quality of education services
and equity through maximizing the role of ICT". The last decision of the Government of the
Russian Federation to continue its programs (second phase of the Project corresponding to the



8"Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the
World Bank Group for the Russian Federation", Report No. 24127-RU, The World Bank, May 14, 2002.
9"Russian Federation: E-Learning Policy to Transform Russian Schools", Report No. 25893-RU, The
World Bank, April 29, 2003.


                                                 12

Federal Target Program of Education Development) in line with the general APL program is
evidence of the Project PDO relevance to the country's needs.

The continuing, and even increasing, relevance of the Project during its implementation period
can also be demonstrated by the significant ownership by the client, which launched a
multiplicity of federal projects aimed at enhancing the enabling conditions for a successful
dissemination of ICT activities for education, as it was highlighted above. Table 1 below presents
a brief summary of the key programs in this regard.




                                                13

                                                           Table 1
  Projects and programs aimed at ICT introduction in education in Russia
                                 coexisting during the ELSP's lifetime


                                                                                 Total Budget     Financing sources
                                                                                                     (distribution)

                                                                                         ICTE
  Federal Program                    Objective               Implementation     Total
                                                                  period               activities Financing sources
                                                                               (million
                                                                                        (million     (distribution)
                                                                                US$)
                                                                                         US$)


                         To   establish    an    information
E-Education              technology infrastructure in the
(Development of the education system by providing                                                29% Federal Budget;

Common Education                                                                                 40% Regional Budgets;
                         educational     institutions    with 2001 - 2005        2,240    2,240
                                                                                                 31% Extrabudgetary
Information Space        computer equipment, access to
                                                                                                 Funds
for 2001-2006)           global data resources, general
                         systems, and applied software.


                           To equip rural schools in 84
  Computers for            regions of the country with                                           50% Federal Budget;
  Rural Schools*                                                   2001              80       80
                           computers and related                                                 50% Regional Budgets
                           equipment.

  Computers for            To equip 8,700 urban schools                                          40% Federal Budget;

  Urban Schools*           with one computer per                   2002              84       84 30% Regional Budgets;
                           classroom.                                                            30% Municipal Budgets

                         Development of a system of

Education system         educational Internet portals with a

development - Phase      linked federal bank of Digital       2001 - 2005          659      659  No information is
                         Educational              Resources.                                     available
I                        Connection to Internet for all
                         Higher Education Institutions.


                         To increase the efficiency of the
                         economy in both the public and
                         private sectors, by making wider
                         use of information technologies
E-Russia (Electronic in government departments and                                               51.5% Federal Budget;

Russia for 2002-                                                                                 10.9% Regional
                         transferring much of the state's     2002 - 2010        3,087      841
                                                                                                 Budgets; 37.6%
2010)                    work on-line. The main means to
                                                                                                 Extrabudgetary Funds
                         achieving its objective is the
                         connection of all towns with a
                         population of 30,000+ people to
                         the country's fiberoptic backbone.


Children of Russia -     Support     of   gifted     children                                    80% Federal Budget;
                         through     annual     supply     of 2003 - 2006          815         3 20% Extrabudgetary
Phase I                  equipment.                                                              Funds

                         Support     of   gifted     children                                    5% Federal Budget;
Children of Russia - through         annual     supply     of 2007 - 2010       1,914          3 93% Regional Budgets;
Phase II                 equipment and relevant distance-                                        2% Extrabudgetary
                         learning programs.                                                      Funds

                         Access to Internet for all schools

Priority national        through     country's     fiberoptic
                         backbone, including a 1-year full    2006 - 2008          183      183 100% Federal Budget
project "Education"      coverage     of    Internet-related
                         charges.

Education system         Introduction of new educational

development - Phase      technologies      and      teaching  2006 - 2010        2,477      459  68% Federal Budget;
                         process, incl. support of modern                                        32% Other Funds
II                       ICT technologies.
Total                                                          2001-2010        11,376    4,388
* Sub-program within the E-Education one.

Source: National Training Foundation
Note: Values in dollars calculated at an exchange rate of 25 rubles per dollar.




                                                              14

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective

Rating for Outcomes: Highly Satisfactory.

The objective of the Project was to support the Borrower in its Education Modernization
Program's overarching goals of improving the accessibility, quality and relevance/efficiency of
the general and initial vocational education schools. The main means to achieve this overall
development objective would be represented by a system-wide introduction of ICT, originally
piloted in seven regions of the Russian Federation that had already been selected by the GOR.
The operationalization of the Project's specific support revolved around three axes, each
supported by a Project component: (i) building sustainable capacity to produce high-quality,
affordable and flexible learning materials to meet the needs of students, teachers, and school
administrators in a knowledge economy; (ii) supporting both pre- and in-service training of
educational staff in the introduction of ICT into both teaching and school-management activities;
and (iii) establishing a network or resource centers to provide the necessary technical and
methodological support to schools in the use of ICT.

As indicated in Section 1.2, a set of three key PDO indicators and fifteen Intermediate Outcome
Indicators were designed to monitor progress towards the achievement of the PDO. The values
for this set of eighteen indicators, for both the baseline and the status at closure, are presented in
Section F above. We discuss below the achievement of the three-pronged project's PDO based on
this group of eighteen indicators.

PDO #1: Improving access

Rating: High.

The indicators specifically addressing this first PDO were:

IOI 10:           Number of students enrolled in distance courses under the Project, including
                  those ones in rural areas. (748% achieved)

IOI 14:           Number of students participating in telecommunication educational projects
                  under the Project, including those ones in rural areas. (319% achieved)

As is seen, both these objectives specifically referred to an increase in enrollment, with a
particular emphasis on the situation in rural areas, which are usually the most disadvantaged in
terms of access to high quality modern teaching aids. The Project fulfilled both objectives
overshooting the expected targets.

In regards to the enrollment on distance learning courses, the Project did a commendable job in
generating an important increasing the number of students enrolled in distance learning by 75%
during the Project's lifetime (from 21,260 to 37,428) and, therefore, reaching the 30,000 mark set
as target. Of particular interest was the fact that, whereas at the start of the Project, only 2.4% of
these enrolled students came from rural areas, by the closing date of the Project, more than 10%
of total enrollment came from rural populations, which represents a four-fold increase in the share
of the rural population in these type of course. Further estimations from the PIU, which
incorporate small towns into the "rural areas" group put this latter figure at 30%. Note that small
towns, although usually self-declare as urban, are technically rural and disadvantaged in most of
the cases.



                                                  15

The upward trend in the number of students participating in telecommunication educational
projects is also stunning. The original target for the participation in this type of projects was set at
roughly 7,200. However, according to information provided by the PIU, close to the end of
school year 2007/08, the total figure reached approximately 23,000, as many students from
distant schools in the Project regions wanted to take additional training to prepare for the Unified
State Examination, a "Matura"-type school-leaving exam in the Russian Federation. The interest
for this course became so high that many students, mainly from rural areas, got enrolled. The PIU
also explained that this became possible because, by the time of the Project's closing date, all
rural and small towns' schools in the country had been connected to Internet through the Priority
National Project "Education". This is another indication that the GOR, through one of the
aforementioned ICTE-complementary support programs, had provided the necessary pre-
conditions for raising the bar set by the ELSP and significantly expanding the reach of the goals
of the Project. Therefore, although the over-achievement of this indicator is remarkable, it is clear
that external events were probably as important. Yet, the ability of the ELSP to create this
enabling environment to meet latent student demand cannot be underestimated.

PDO #2: Improving quality

Rating: High.

Three key PDO indicators are used to measure the achievement of this PDO:

PDO Indicator 1:         Number of 9th-grade students in Project regions demonstrating ICT-
                         competence. (126% achieved)
PDO Indicator 2:         Number of teachers in Project regions demonstrating ICT competence.
                         (172% achieved)
PDO Indicator 3:         Number of general education and initial vocational education institutions
                         in Project regions improved use of ICT in education. (144% achieved)

All three of these indicators attempted to show, that once the program had launched, a marked
rise in ICT competence levels of all units of analysis within the education system (schools,
teachers, and students) would be experienced. And this was precisely what the data confirmed by
the end of the Project.

The ICT competence level of students was monitored by an instrument called "ICT Competence
Test" developed during the lifetime of the Project. The test was administered in all three years at
the end of the third quarter of the respective school year (April 2006, April 2007 and April 2008).
The ICT competence Test determined the proportion of students with high, medium, and low ICT
competence levels. The proportion of students not located in the low category was taken as the
key number to track. The team had set up, originally, an end-of-project target of "more than 50%".
The number obtained for the first (pilot) version of the instrument revealed 48% of 9th-grade
students showing either medium or high levels of ICT competence. The following two rounds,
presenting a larger coverage of the 9th-grade cohort in all 7 pilot regions, showed that this
outcome indicator had progressed to 54% by April 2007, and to a further 63% by April 2008, two
months before closure.

This ICT Competence Test for Teachers was administered to the teachers of those 9th-grade
students tested with the ICT Competence Test for Students. The test was taken by roughly 7,000
teachers in total, from a randomly sampled set of schools in each of the pilot regions. Unlike the
student version of the test, this was administered only twice (April 2007 and April 2008). The
Project's team had also set up an end-of-project target of "more than 50%" of the teachers in the


                                                  16

pilot regions with ICT competence level higher than "low". The results of the two rounds for this
outcome indicator showed percentages of 79% for April 2007 and 86% for April 2008.

Finally, the improvement in ICT skills at the school level was monitored by a different instrument
called "School ICT Test". This instrument was administered annually throughout the lifetime of
the Project, also at the end of the third quarter of each of the school years involved. The
instrument consisted of a 58-question survey to assess the ICT stage of development of the
specific school and was filled out by a school team made up by administrators, teachers, and
students. The final score for a particular school placed the institution in 1 of 12 possible clusters
that were tied to 5 different ICT levels of development. The instrument then measured, for the
same school, whether this school had remained within a certain ICT level of development,
progressed onto a higher one or even regressed onto a lower one. The percentage of positive ICT-
level changes experienced by the totality of schools involved (roughly 3,000 for all 7 pilot
regions) would determine whether the objective was met or not. As with the case of the other 2
outcome indicators, the end-of-project bar was set up at "over 50%". The number of schools that
increased their ICT development level between the first round of the instrument (April 2006) and
the third round of the instrument (April 2008) was 72.1%.

PDO #3: Improving relevance

Rating: High.

The remaining thirteen IOIs designed by the Project were instrumental for achieving the third
PDO of the three-fold strategy envisaged by the GOR in its Education Modernization Program.
And they were also the main vehicle to the improvement of quality experienced in the three key
PDO indicators listed above. The list of these indicators is presented below, in accordance to the
three key issues targeted by the Project.

1) Improvement in the Relevance of the Teaching and Learning Materials (TLMs)

IOI 1:           Number of sets of digital educational resources incorporated into the national
                 educational e-collection. (100% achieved)
IOI 2:           Number of sets of digital resources supporting the existing learning materials.
                 (127% achieved)
IOI 3:           Number of sets of innovative e-learning materials produced. (227% achieved)
IOI 4:           Number of testing centers created. (98% achieved)
IOI 5:           % of schools in the Project regions that received new generation teaching and
                 learning materials developed under the Project. (100% achieved)
IOI 6:           % of schools in the Project regions that introduced new generation teaching and
                 learning materials into the curriculum (136% achieved)

The first three indicators (IOI 1, IOI 2 and IOI 3) refer to the three types of TLM developed under
the ELSP (Digital Educational Resources or DERs, Complex Information Sources or CIS, and
Sets of Innovative Teaching and Learning Materials or SITLMs). None of these three types of
material existed prior to the launching of the ELSP, so the baseline targets for these three
indicators were obviously zero. Their end-of-project target numbers were set at 75,000 for DERs,
127 for CIS and 100 for TLMs. All of them were achieved by the time the Project closed. As for
IOI 4, the number of testing centers that was created almost exactly matched the originally set
target (59 instead of the 60), but due to the fact that these 59 testing centers did not have the
logistical capability to manage the enormous amount/scope of work required for testing all the
TLMs produced under the Project, 96 new centers across the Russian Federation were established,


                                                 17

which significantly helped ease the burden on the testing of TLMs and, if any, helped to achieve
the expected direct outcome of this output: the adequate and timely testing of the quality TLMs.
Finally, in terms of the last two indicators, IOI 5 and IOI 6, the Project fixed different end-of-
project targets. In the case of the proportion of schools that received new generation TLMs
developed under the Project, a 100% coverage rate was foreseen. In the case of the proportion of
schools that introduced new generation TLMs into their curricula, the bar, once again, was set at
"not less than 50%". In both cases, once again, the Project reached its stated objectives: all
schools in the 7 pilot regions received new generation TLMs developed under the ELSP and 68%
of schools in the 7 pilot regions demonstrated having incorporated inside their curricula new
generation TLMs.

2) Improvement in the Relevance of the Training of Teachers

IOI 7:             Number of training programs in the use of ICT for teaching and learning created.
                   (150% achieved)
IOI 8:             Number of teachers trained in programs of developing basic ICT competence.
                   (104% achieved)
IOI 9:             Number of online educators and curators trained in the area of Internet education.
                   (224% achieved)
IOI 11:            Number of instructional designers trained in development of digital teaching and
                   learning materials. (285% achieved)

All four indicators had zero-value baseline targets, and all of them met the expectations,
achieving the goals set up at the beginning of the Project. In terms of the training programs in the
use of ICT for teaching and learning, the original goal by the closing date was 37, but a total of 42
programs were developed. In regards to the number of teachers trained in ICT programs, the
original goal of 60,000 was also fulfilled, with a total of 62,364 teachers trained (not counting
school administrators, who sometimes also perform teaching activities). Also in terms of
educators, but for distance learning courses, the original target of 560 was almost doubled (1,119).
Finally, the actual number of instructional designers trained in development of digital TLMs
(570) more than doubled the original goals set up by the Project (250).

3) Improvement in the Relevance of Teacher Support through Interschool Resource Centers
    (IRCs)

IOI 12:            Number of teachers trained in IRCs to use e-learning materials created under the
                   Project. (104% achieved)
IOI 13:            Number of methodologists (tutors) involved in teacher training and support
                   trained under the Project. (107% achieved)
IOI 15:            Number of regions introducing e-education programs approved by the Ministry
                   of Education and Science out of total number of regions receiving grants10.
                   (100% achieved)

These three indicators were also met, at large. In terms of the first two indicators (teachers and
methodologists trained), where the obvious baseline value was zero because both referred to the



10So-called "dissemination grants" played a key role in the project's design by allowing new regions of the
Russian Federation to benefit from the creation of IRCs, as well. After a call for proposals and further
discussions with the MOES in terms of the potential interest from other regions not originally included in
the 7 pilot ones, it was decided that a total of 8 new regions would be allowed. See Section 3.4 below.


                                                       18

training under the Project, the original end-of-project goals (50,000 teachers and 1,500
methodologists trained) were surpassed by between 4% and 7% in both cases (51,868 teachers
and 1,605 methodologists trained). Finally, the last indicator reflected the expectation that, by the
end of the Project, at least 8 new regions, other than the 7 pilot regions originally chosen for the
ELSP, could have e-education programs also fully in place. This meant that these regions had to
first pass the test from the Expert Analytical Center (EAC) to eventually get their plans approved
by the Ministry of Education and Science. In order to facilitate this process, the PIU organized a
competition for a series of grants that would help set up IRCs in these new regions with the same
capabilities and characteristics as the ones already established in the pilot regions. Eight new
regions11 won this contest and were given the aforementioned grants at the beginning of school
year 2007/08 and all of them were able to successfully establish the e-education programs by the
end of the Project's lifetime.

In summary, the achievement against all PDOs is very high. The table below provides a concise
summary of the average % achievement rates per category of indicator.

                 ELSP: Achievement rates by type of indicator and component

                             Type of indicator                    Average achievement
                                                                            rate
           Key PDO indicators (outcome
           indicators)                           Average                         147.5%

           Intermediate Outcome                  Component 1                      131.4%
           Indicators (output indicators, by     Component 2                      302.3%
           component)                            Component 3                      157.4%

                                                 Average                         195.3%
           Note: The average achievement rates in the table are the simple averages of
           the achievement rates of those indicators within each of the categories.



3.3 Efficiency

Rating for Efficiency: Substantial.

The Economic and Financial Analysis presented in the Annex 4 of the PAD highlighted that the
correct framework for analyzing the efficiency of such a project would be a cost-benefit analysis
that used a partial-equilibrium model, given that the ultimate goal of the Project was to help
contribute to improve the comparative advantage of the economy. The preparation team deemed
it impossible to undertake such quantitative analysis, however, it did carry out a qualitative
analysis by attempting to show how the Project would ultimately have an impact on both learning
outcomes and labor market outcomes. Carrying out a similar analysis as of the end of the Project
would not be useful, though, as many of the results of the Project in these two areas (learning
outcomes and labor market outcomes) will take some time to materialize. In this regard, neither a
rate of return nor a present value analysis is presented here.



11 These regions were the Oblasts of Moscow, Novosibirsk, Astrakhan, and Yaroslavl, the Republics of
Tatarstan and Chuvash, the Autonomous Okrug of Khanty-Mansy-Yugra, and the City of Togliatti.


                                                  19

What the ICR team attempted to evaluate was whether the Project was efficient and cost-effective
in delivering the intended ELSP outputs. The conclusion is that the benefits of the Project far
outweighed the costs incurred. In fact, for a third of Project indicators, the end-of-project targets
were originally set lower but were soon revised due the impressive Project performance. For
example, for IOI 3 (number of SITLMs) the target was originally set and budgeted for a total of
45. However, due to the outstanding quality of the proposals received, the Project team accepted
more than double the number set by the original target. In other words, for the same amount of
resources originally expected to cover the production of a given amount of SITLM, twice as
much was delivered. This was also true in other five indicators (see Section F of the Data Sheet).
Secondly, not only did the Project over-achieve in terms of the agreed indicators, but these over-
achievement rates do not take into account the fact that, in the case of some indicators, the
Regions themselves topped up these targets with voluntary financial contributions of their own
(e.g. in the case of IOI 12, number of teachers trained in IRCs, although the ELSP achieved the
50,000+ original target, as many as 15,500 more teachers were voluntarily financed by the
Regions themselves).

To sum up, the ICR team believes that the massive introduction of ICT-intensive teaching and
learning methods in the 7 pilot regions selected for the ELSP provided demonstration cases, in
each of the 7 Federal Districts of the Russian Federation, on how to make education at GSE and
IVE schools more efficient in developing and delivering: a) a more accessible education to a
larger number of students; b) a higher-quality type of learning through both a higher quality of the
TLMs and a higher ICT competence from teachers to use these innovative tools at their disposal;
and c) a significantly more relevant curriculum, better adapted to the current labor market needs
in the Russian Federation. In doing so, the fact that all this took place at a decreasing unit cost
rate12 substantially fulfills the condition of efficiency.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

An overall rating of Highly Satisfactory is given to the Project because of its high relevance,
highly successful outcomes and substantial efficiency.

On the one hand, the Project supported a high-profile program of the GOR and produced a large
number of indicators to address all dimensions of the three-fold strategy spelt out in the
Education Modernization Program: improving the access, improving the quality and improving
the relevance of education at GSE and IVE schools. All outcome indicators were fully or
substantially over-achieved in a highly efficient and cost-effective manner. In fact, on average,
the percentage of over-achievement of the Project's key PDO indicators was 147%, whereas the
mean percentage of over-achievement of the 15 accompanying IOIs reached approximately 195%.
Moreover, most of the targets were achieved relatively early in the lifetime of the Project. This is
truly to be commended insofar as the Project's implementation period was actually one year
shorter because of effectiveness delays. Last but not least, once the Project formally became
effective, it always implemented on time, never experienced any delays in disbursements and




12The calculation of the achievement rates is made in relation to the Bank loan-financed activities.




                                                         20

fully disbursed by the closing date. The Project has never been extended, suspended or
downgraded, and it fully complied with all M&E activities and was rated "S" throughout the
ISRs. All the above factors would make a clear case for a solid "Satisfactory" rating to the
Project.

On the other hand, the ICR team felt that the Project had a solid track record of overachievement
across all the key outcome and output indicators and there are a number of other critical reasons
which strongly support a "Highly Satisfactory" rating for the Project.

The key accomplishment of the Project was that it provided an unprecedented demonstration of
how coordinated efforts of federal, regional government, education community and international
partners could achieve substantial results in such a short period of time (three years) in the
country of a huge size of the Russian Federation, all supported by smooth implementation process
and substantial time and efforts invested into monitoring and evaluation of outcomes, while
building on the large-scale national investment in ICT connectivity in schools.

Another key reason for "HS" rating is that ­ while addressing the global challenge of bridging the
digital divide and introducing the ICT into the teaching and learning process as the main factor of
the country's global economic competitiveness ­ this Project managed to apply a comprehensive
and well-thought approach contrary to popular technology-centered models and demonstrated the
added value of ICT as an important public good. The Project facilitated synergy between different
programs supporting ICT introduction, and targeted three key elements of effective
implementation of ICT policy:
    a) as proven by both empirical research and numerous anecdotal evidence, this Project
        achieved a substantial change in individual behavior of ICT users ­ teachers, students,
        administrators ­ as well as increased effectiveness of their collaboration in groups in the
        form of innovative projects or teaching/learning activities;
    b) it substantially increased technology infrastructure both at the central/federal level of
        education system and at the regional/local level, and by this provided greater physical
        access to technology for users from distantly located/rural areas, and especially­ to
        students with special needs through distance learning means; and finally,
    c) it greatly increased for the variety of users availability of and access to high-quality
        digital educational content, both by developing the new electronic teaching and learning
        resources and providing unique access to the Russian masterworks of literature, music
        and fine arts which are now a digitally protected national heritage and would be
        otherwise hardly accessible to rural users. All this unique depository of masterworks is
        now available to every student in the country via Internet, CDs, etc.

In view of the above, the ICR team rates this Project as Highly Satisfactory given the outstanding
learning nature of this investment. This rating is possible at this point (despite S ratings given to
the Project throughout its implementation) because the rate of over-achievement of targets by this
Project could only be fully measured at the end of the Project.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project, through one of the three areas where it focused, namely the access dimension, did in
fact directly address poverty. As stated above, the percentage of students from rural areas
increased dramatically as a result of the Project's distance-learning component. Not only students,



                                                 21

but also teachers from the most disadvantaged areas got access to the same quality of TLMs
produced, and usually exclusively accessed by students from urban centers. Anecdotal evidence
collected during the ICR mission to the Region of Karelia, confirms these findings (see item c in
this same section below). As it was expressed above, the commitment of the GOR to provide the
necessary nationwide platform (equipment, Internet connection) for a successful launch of a
project like this was absolutely instrumental.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional strengthening was part of the "quality" objective of the Project. The Project's design
overly stressed the issue of capacity building. However, rather than using the typical teacher-
based approach, the ELSP proposed a holistic framework where teachers would still be at the
forefront of the support, but also other stakeholders, like school administrators, instructional
designers, methodologists, etc., would both benefit and contribute to the success of the whole
program. Of special interest in this latter regard was the creation of the IRCs. These built upon a
particular set of school-support institutions inherited from Soviet times known as Municipal
Methodological Services (MMSs). They were created to help cope not only with the technical-
support-related issues that would emerge as a result of the introduction of new ICT-intensive
teaching and learning methods, but to also do so from a methodological or subject-based point of
view, thereby retaining the original role for which the MMSs had been created. Again, anecdotal
evidence collected during the ICR mission suggests IRCs' contributions were instrumental in the
success of the projects, and when merged with or established in parallel to the existing MMSs,
they brought as a result a revitalization of the teacher support system embedded in the then-
outdated functions of the MMSs.

The Project also significantly helped to build capacity in the Federal MOES, regional
ministries/departments of education, academia and professionals in supporting educational
reforms aimed at improving quality and market relevance of education. Enhancement of the
capacity of NTF, which is a non-governmental organization that will continue to operate even
after the Project ends, is especially noteworthy. It is increasingly being used by the Government
for promoting reforms including the implementation of some components of the GoR's Priority
National Project Education.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Some unintended outcomes of the Project were collected through the interviews carried out in the
field during the preparation of the ICR and represent anecdotal but interestingly rich evidence.
Two specific examples are of interest:

1) One example is a story of an 11th-grade boy of a rural school in the area of Pryazha, Karelia
region, who mastered his ICT skills at school to become an advanced ICT user and, therefore, he
gradually became indispensible in providing web development, system administration and user
support to a nearby community hospital. In return for his commitment, this hospital offered to
fund his higher education with the hope of being able to re-recruit him, after graduation.

2) Another example was the creative use of the "Grants" for dissemination of best practices under
Component 3 (Creating a Network of IRCs). Grants were designed to encourage non-pilot regions
to replicate successful reforms in pilot regions. Such grants were awarded to non-pilot regions on
a competitive basis for replicating one of the reform areas of the Project such as the advanced
ICT training program for regional and municipal level administrators, use of education



                                                 22

management software packages; implementation of Regional Coordination Centers' (RCC) - IRC
network as means for permanent methodological support to teachers.

The ability of the dissemination grants to leverage reforms in regions in areas not related to grants
was an unintended outcome of the Project and demonstrated a "snow-ball" effect:

         3 of the regions that received dissemination grants established the "mirrors"13 of the
         Unified Digital collection of TLM;

         11 dissemination regions introduced DER developed as supplement to the main list of
         school subjects into the educational process.

The Project has been able to publish a large pool of materials: 21 books, CDs and packs
(book+CD) consisting of legal frameworks, procedures and guidelines for implementation of
various reforms, impact assessments, monitoring reports, training materials, etc. Such
documentation was produced not only by NTF but also by pilot and dissemination regions. The
Project has contributed to enriching the knowledge base for educational reforms. This is also a
noteworthy unintended impact of the Project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There were two types of surveys carried out.

The first instrument was called "Social Survey of School Assessment of ICT Use" and was
administered to a series of students, teachers, and school administrators at the beginning and
towards the end of the ELSP's lifetime (2005 and 2008). This was meant to assess ICT self-
awareness levels of different participants of the Project. The comparative results for those
participants that were tested showed statistically significant changes in the number of participants
that self-assessed as having low ICT skills back in 2005 vs. those in 2008 (administrators: 32.9%
vs. 16.9%; teachers: 41.5% vs. 35.2%; students: 34.6% vs. 27.6%).

The second instrument that could be also interpreted as a beneficiary survey was the "Training
Effectiveness Survey" carried out only in the month of March 2008 among participants of the
various training modules of ELSP (teachers, school administrators, and librarians). It was a short
instrument containing only 10 questions that was distributed to a random sample of about 5% of
the almost 50,000 participants trained until October 2007. This questionnaire, though, included a
very interesting question inquired about the usage of different ICT resources for daily work prior
to the courses and after the training took place. The results were highly significantly positive for
all three types of stakeholders showing an increase of usage of ICT-related resources for day-to-
day work from an average range of increase of 1.4 times (text editor) to almost 3 times (programs
for development of websites).




13Given that the total volume of digital resources in the Unified Collection of DER is currently about 250
GB, regional copies ("mirrors") of the Collection have been created in 3 regions to reduce both the
Internet-traffic and connectivity costs related to downloading the materials.




                                                      23

                    4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Negligible

The risk to Development Outcome is rated low, and indeed marginally so. The Project results
were lauded by the Government and are fully incorporated into the existing Government
programs and both federal and regional governments secured necessary state funding to continue
these programs as a direct result of the Project. Therefore, the sustainability of Project's
investments and more broadly of Project's outcomes is essentially 100% assured.


                  5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Project preparation was rigorously supported by analytical work, and financially supported
by the Portfolio Development Loan. The main strength of the Project design and preparation lay
in the ability to accurately identify the reform needs of the country and to prepare well for their
implementation. Quality at entry was also strengthened through intensive consultations with pilot
regions during the preparatory phase to correctly identify a set of mutually reinforcing reforms.
We believe the robustness of the design allowed the Project to be completed without any major
adjustment.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

A decentralized model of Project supervision from the Bank side was very effective. It allowed
the Project team to maintain a close relationship with the counterpart on a daily basis in spite of
the serious restructuring of the government in 2004 and a significant change of staff at the federal
and regional Government levels.

The Bank team invested ­ in close cooperation with the Government ­ an enormous time and
effort into very close supervision of Project activities at the regional level in order not only to
collect evidence, but also proactively apply reality checks to the implementation of Project design.
This included fact-finding visits and monitoring activities conducted at each and every Project
site, even those that were distantly located. This was especially important in view of the fact that
the Project maintained very strong regional focus throughout its implementation.

The ICR team actually found that the Bank supervision team was quite strict in assessing Project
performance during its implementation. The TTL and the Bank team rated the Project as
"Satisfactory" in all ISRs although indeed Project achievement far exceeded all expectation and
deserved a higher rating.




                                                 24

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The high quality of Project design ensured a high quality of the Project at entry. In terms of the
quality of Project supervision process it is important to emphasize that the Bank team applied a
decentralized supervision model which allowed day-to-day interaction with the client and
frequent reality checks ­ both in the framework of supervision visits and through an ongoing
support to the Client by the team located in the Bank country office. Both quality of
preparation/design and appropriate supervision provided an ultimate contribution to the
achievement of PDOs.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The commitment to reforms was strong at both the federal as well as the regional levels, despite
some serious changes in the Federal Government which took place during the initial years of the
lifetime of the Project. The commitment to and involvement in reforms were especially
remarkable at the regional level. Regions supported reforms allocating resources on top of
commitments made for the Project. Policy environment was also supportive to Project activities.
MOES was very proactive to resolve the start up delays.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The NTF team, which was appointed in time, had a high degree of commitment to achieving
development objectives and it had adequate skills for fulfilling this commitment. It was able to
maintain good relationship with partners and stakeholders. Adequate capacity and infrastructure
is already in place for continuing Project supported activities after the end of the Project. It is
especially notable that Project's high achievements were to a great extent due to the interactive
approach chosen by the PIU in dealing with its partners in all Project pilot and dissemination
regions, and most important ­ to ensuring that each Project site is given necessary attention both
prior and during the implementation of respective Project activities and checking understanding
of the "rules of the game" before embarking into substantial implementation. All Partners with
whom ICR team consulted expressed great appreciation of the hard work and professionalism of
the implementing agency and its team.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: The overall rating for Borrower's performance is Highly Satisfactory.

The Borrower's role and contribution to the high quality of Project design/preparation and
excellent implementation process is hard to overestimate. Both Federal and Regional Government
invested substantial resources and demonstrated high level of commitment to the implementation
of the Education Modernization program supported by the ELSP, and it continued demonstrating
full commitment throughout the Project implementation to ensure high consistency and



                                               25

compliance with agreements reached with the Bank in terms of implementation modalities and
towards the full achievement (and overachievement) of the agreed Project development outcomes.


                                      6. LESSONS LEARNED

This ICR reconfirmed the relevance and importance of two lessons learned from the second joint
Project between the GOR and the Bank: the Education Reform Project:
    · In reform-oriented projects it is important to support a set of complementary reforms
        rather than focusing only on the most important individual elements of reforms. The
        result is a far more comprehensive impact.
    · In addition to implementing systemic reform measures to improve the ICT infrastructure
        or facilities in the education system, it is critical to take actions which support innovative
        group activities of various target groups ­ teachers, students, principals, members of local
        communities and experts of methodological centers, etc. These joint actions, either in the
        form of preparation and implementation of innovative projects, new types of learning
        activities in teams ­ and among them ICT intense activities - or school-local community
        cooperation initiatives, among others facilitate change in the mindset and boost the
        quality of learning and teaching.

Other lessons learned:

    1. A systemic implementation of reforms requires a profound needs analysis prior to
        designing a project and this could only be successful provided: a) a long-term
        government reform program is implemented in phases, b) this program is supported by
        allocation of appropriate resources from the state budget, and c) this program is backed
        up by coordinated efforts of all actors in the sector.
    2. This Project demonstrated that risks associated with the need to put together and organize
        large numbers of organizations and people with own practices and procedures can only
        be done if new requirements for collaboration and coordination among all elements in the
        system is developed beforehand and systemically followed.
    3. This Project also proved that ICT in Education is much more than installing computers
        and buying software: these make just one element and could make a systemic impact only
        if the content of learning, teaching methods, forms, as well as the whole organization of
        educational institutions into self-developing and cooperating networks of innovative
        service institutions could generate new quality and provide for achieving those learning
        outcomes needed for the new knowledge and information economy.


7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower's Completion Report has been received and filed. A summary can be
found in Annex 7. The Borrower rated the Project as Satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not Applicable


                                                  26

                       ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



                                                     Actual/Latest
          Components             Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)  Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

COMPONENT ONE:
LEARNING MATERIALS                       35.10             33.48           95.37%

COMPONENT TWO:
TEACHER TRAINING IN THE                  43.24             36.76           85.02%
EDUCATIONAL USE OF ICT
COMPONENT THREE:
DEVELOPMENT OF A
NETWORK OF INTERSCHOOL                   63.45             81.15           127.89%

RESOURCE CENTERS
COMPONENT FOUR:
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        3.65               3.59          98.32%


            Total Baseline Cost         145.44            154.97           106.55%
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
            Total Project Costs*        145.44            154.97           106.55%
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD**
      Total Financing Required          145.44            154.97           106,55%



*This amount includes applicable taxes and duties: 13.00 appraisal estimate, 18.81
actual (USD mln)
**According to LA front end fee is 1% of the amount of the loan. However, this amount
was paid from the sources other than the loan proceeds.

(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of     Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing    (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            45.44         57.37       126.25%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                     100.00        97.60        97.6%




                                            27

                           ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

Component 1. New-generation teaching and learning materials
(US$33.48 million total actual costs)


1.       A set of methodological recommendations, "Regulatory Framework for the School of
Informatization", approved by the Department of State Policy and Normative-Legal Regulation in
Education.

2.       Normative technological requirements for developers of DER were elaborated based on
the IMS consortium specifications and form a basis for DER inclusion into the Unified Collection
of Digital Educational Resources in the section "For DER Developers".

3.       Three types of TLMs were developed under ELSP:

             1) 127 Sets of DER that comply with conventional practices and illustrate (or
                 supplement) conventional textbooks approved by the Ministry of Education and
                 Science of the Russian Federation.

             2) 33 CIS that can be used in both the conventional study process and as supporting
                 material in innovative educational practices.

             3) 69 Sets of innovative TLM to support educational innovations.

4.       The Unified Collection of DER (Collection) represents systematized digital teaching and
learning materials that are arranged as subject and thematic collections united by a unified system
of resource description and a unified search system. In total, there are about 250,000 information
objects in the Collection that meet the basic requirements of the Federal Component of the State
education standard for general and initial vocational education.

6.       School managerial software. As digital system for organization and support of the study
process, 1C: Obrazovanie 4. Shkola, was developed and delivered to all schools in the ELSP pilot
regions.

7.       The software package 1C: ChronoGraf Shkola 2.5 was developed under ELSP and
delivered to all Russian general education institutions within the framework of the "Education"
National Priority Project.

8.       The   software    package   "ChronoGraf      3.0   Master"   purchased    under    contract
ELSP/A2/02/G/05/ICB was delivered to all general schools of the ELSP pilot regions and placed
in the Unified Collection of DER. Besides, it was delivered to all Russian general education
institutions within the framework of the "Education" National Priority Project.

9.       Mass distribution of these programs was fulfilled due to the efforts taken in order to
embed software packages for the study process administration into school management practices
(contract ELSP/1/C/009-06) within the framework of subcomponent B1.

10.      Informational tools for teaching activities. The system of informational tools for teaching
activities was formed alongside works on forming the sample collection, sample analysis and
sample purchase and/or development. As a result, tools for geometric construction, visualization
of chronological information and genealogical tree operation, as well as a geo-information system
were developed and/or purchased (Table 3.6) and afterwards placed in the Collection. Also, to
populate the Collection, two versions of a server operating system distributed under a free license
were prepared.

11.      A system of teaching and learning materials testing had been built and put into operation


                                                 28

in the course of ELSP implementation. Testing (expert examination and TLM testing in real
studies) was carried out directly in schools (testing sites) and integrated into the process of TLM
development, which made it possible to perfect the TLM being developed and improve their quality
in the course of Project implementation.

Component 2. Teacher training in the educational use of ICT
US$36.76 million total actual costs)

12.      Formation of Educator's Basic Educational ICT competence. Following the competitions
22 regions participated in this work in different phases of the Project. Alternative programs and
sets of modular instructional and methodological materials for 72 academic hours were developed
to carry out this work. T

13.      76,898 persons received in ICT-competence training in the period from September 1,
2005 to May 31, 2008, that is, 128% of the planned figure. The target groups of trainees were
composed of subject teachers, school managers, education administrators, and librarians. There
were three forms of training: full-time, full-time/distance and external. All trainees who
completed training were granted certificates of competence.

14.      Forty six conferences, 78 workshops, 24 competitions of projects, and 25 training
sessions and master classes were held at the regional level in the 15 new regions of the Project.

15.      Internet Support of Educator's Professional Growth. Nineteen competition winning
organizations/educational institutions were awarded grants (Table 3.9). They worked out
development plans and (a) updated their Internet sites where electronic libraries for teaching and
learning materials in various subject domains were created; (b) opened Internet consulting
agencies for teacher; (c) organized forums to discuss the experience and the results of educational
initiative support within the ELSP framework.

16.      A wide discussion of Internet support to teachers and formation of distributed network
professional teachers' communities was held at the main Russian conferences ITO-2006 and ITO-
2007.

17.      Training of New Teachers. 10 Higher teacher training institutions developed about 150
teaching modules and courses (about 150% of the planned figure) for training new teachers in the
methods of DER use in their professional activity, as well as in the instructional design
application for the study process organization in the ICT-environment.

18.      During two academic years (2006/07 and 2007/08) more than 4500 students (future
teachers) received training in effective uses of DER in school studies, as well as in instructional
design (two times more than planned). In the course of training students prepared methods aids
(scenarios) for lessons with the use of DER, projects, their own DER, and portfolios. The best of
these were displayed on the websites of their institutions.

19.      The Laboratories of Digital Educational Resources and Instructional Design set up in all
of the higher teachers training institutions greatly contributed to the success of the program

20.      NTF (1) had organized and conducted a series of 3 workshops on instructional design,
each for 100 to 200 TLM developers-winners of relevant competitions and (2) provisions were
made in the new teachers' training program for the development and pilot testing in teacher
training institutions of instructional design courses for future teachers using the materials created
within the ELSP framework. The course syllabuses were developed and are now used in teacher
training. A project for future teachers' specialization in instructional design along various lines
was drafted.




                                                  29

22.      Internet-aided instruction of school students at the streamed level. 3 Consultancy firms
selected on a competitive basis, carried on pilot streamed-level training of 10th- and 11th-grade
students in 7 Project pilot regions during two years.

23.      E-learning STLM were developed for training school students at the streamed level in 14
subjects: Russian, Literature, Foreign Language (English/German), Mathematics, Informatics,
History, Social Science, Economics, Law, Geography, Biology, Physics, Chemistry and World
Artistic Culture). A system of network teacher and curator training took shape: its structure and
content have been defined and effective forms of training that combine full-time and distance
training have been specified. Pilot training helped establish most stable models of basic and
additional forms of teaching. Additional training of network teachers and curators was carried
mostly via special workshops and special websites.

24.       Development of educational institutions providing distance instruction to school
students. Support was given to the elaboration and realization of 19 development programs for
educational institutions engaged in distance instruction of school students:

      · The technological infrastructure of the distance schools that received grants in support of
     their development was replenished with 21 servers, 7 mobile classrooms, 20 multimedia
     projection devices, 9 mini printing shops, 260 computers and various software programs.

      · The number of students supplied with educational services through distance schools grew
     by more that 75%: 37,428 students (including 4045 rural students) are taught presently by
     various distance school programs compared with 21,260 in 2004.

      · The range of supplied educational services broadened and their quality improved. This
     happened due to the distance school TLM digitizing, development of new courses (more
     than 80 courses are being developed), and the use of the Internet to organize work with
     school students.

      · Teaching by new TLM with the use of the Internet which were supplied by education
     managing bodies in compliance with the general (streamed-level) school programs began.

Component 3. Creating a Network of Interschool Resource Centers
(US$81.15 million total actual costs)

 25.     The network of 239 RCC / IRC was built in 7 pilot regions with the purpose of forming
 an educational information environment for the Russian Federation regions so that to involve the
 greatest possible numbers of teachers and learners into informatization processes. All centers
 were equipped with ICT facilities (hardware and software), the IRC personnel was enlisted and
 trained.

26.      All centers were equipped with hardware and software and connected to the Internet.
Apart from computer and presentation facilities, active networking equipment, infrastructural
software, antiviral software, and air conditioners for server rooms were purchased. All premises
of the centers were repaired (financed from local budgets). All centers were supplied with initial
content for their media libraries (instructional and methodological materials on 72 CDs).

27.      An alternative in-service educator training program was developed at the federal level for
all IRC. The teachers of educational institutions attached to IRC were trained by this program.
Along with the ICT-competence program, IRC realized a number of other programs using, in
particular, the modules developed in the regions. Those programs were aimed at mastering user
skills in the context of professional activity; individual software products (by teachers); facilitator
work and professional interaction with the use of telecommunication facilities; ICT application
techniques as a resource of a particular pedagogical technology.



                                                  30

28.     In total, 75,017 educators (137% of the planned figure), including those whose training
was additionally financed by the region, took the IRC in-service training courses during Project
implementation. The greatest number of trained educators was in Chelyabinsk oblast. There the
number of educators whose training was additionally financed by the region was nearly equal to
the number of those trained under the Project. In total, 24,217 educators were given IRC-based
training.

29.     By the time of ELSP completion, plans of the RCC-IRC system further development had
been worked out in all Project pilot regions and approved by the Strategic Committee of the
MOES. In most cases the plans envisaged changes in the organizational and legal status of a
number of centers in order to maintain their steady activity after the Project completion.

31.     Daily assistance to educators on various matters relating to ICT embedding into the study
process was organized: face-to-face and distance (network) consultations provided individually,
frontally and by groups.

32.     IRC consultations can be grouped by the following topics: Regional repositories were
arranged in all the 7 Project pilot regions in 2007 as mirrors of the Unified Collection of DER,
and were integrated into the Collection.

33.     RCC organized many competitions of educational initiatives in two areas (1) Support of
educational initiatives of individual educators and educators' teams in the area of general and
initial vocational education informatization; and (2) Support of initiative network projects
presented by educational institutions and designed for widening the learners' access to
competitions and olympiads on the basis of ICT. Competitions were held twice a year, beginning
from August 2005. Educational institutions, initiative educators' teams and/or individual teachers,
authors of educational projects, took part in the competitions. Winners were financed under
individual and/or collective agreements or agreements with educational institutions from RCC funds
for advisory services.

34.     The ELSP reached a new level in 2006, when the competition for dissemination of
project outcomes was announced. Target financing programs were launched in 22 regions along
the following lines:

· Training of the regional and/or municipal education management personnel with the purpose
    of increasing education management efficiency using ICT (3 regions: Tver oblast, Kirov
    oblast and Sakha (Yakutia) Republic);

· Introduction of the state-of-the-art ICT into school management practices (11 regions);

· Introduction of the IRC model to support general education informatization (8 regions ­
    Chuvash Republic, Khanty-Mansy Autonomus Okrug ­ Yugra, Republic of Tatarstan,
    Moscow oblast, Yaroslavl oblast, Novosibirsk oblast, Astrakhan oblast, Togliatti town).

35.     Active participation of RCC in all-Russian and international conference as well as regular
publication of project materials also contributed to the propagation of Project achievement. In the
period from the second part of 2007 to the first quarter of 2008 reports on the activities of
regional IRC networks were presented at 28 forums. The list of major publications (books and
brochures) issued during Project implementation is given in Annex 1 (YI R).




                                                31

Component 4: Project Management (US$3.59 million total actual costs)

        According to the LA, Component 4 "Project management" envisaged "provision of
support to project implementation through the NTF". The National Training Foundation, a
noncommercial organization, acted as the ELSP implementation unit on the basis of the
Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation No. 273- of August 12, 1994; Contract
of Agency No. 01-01-06/04-7 of February 2, 2005 between MoF, MOES and NTF and in
compliance with local statutory requirements. ELSP Department was set up within the NTF
structure in accordance with the ELSP design and it consisted of ELSP director, coordinators for
federal and regional components and was supported by the NTF general services (Finance,
Procurement, Monitoring and Administration Departments) that carried on procurement and
disbursement procedures, bookkeeping and accounting for the Project. All aspects of day-to-day
implementation of the Project and execution of the loan proceeds and counterpart funds were
done by the NTF, which included also procurement, financial management, accounting,
information activities, interaction with all involved agencies and networks of institutions around
the pilot and dissemination regions, regular interaction with MOES and other central and regional
authorities, as well as monitoring progress under the Project.

        General responsibility for overseeing the management of the Project at the federal level
rested with the Strategic Committee of MOES established in full compliance with provisions of
the LA by the Resolution of the Minister of Education and Science of the Russian Federation No.
P-4 of February 1, 2005. The Strategic Committee supervised all content-related aspects of
Project management, was making decisions on specific aspects of Project design, budget
approval, distribution of funds over Project Components, and general control over Project
performance and the quality of Project outcomes. Members of the Strategic Committee were
representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation, the Federal
Agency for Education and other federal ministries and departments, heads of regional education
administrators, rectors of higher education institutions, and representatives of the educational
community.

        Immediately after the Project launch, MOES issued an order No. -24/02 of January
14, 2005, by which it assigned its departments to supervise each of the Project Components and
major programs. According to a ministerial order, the Director of the Department for State Policy
and Normative and Legal Regulation in Education was assigned responsibility for the general
control over Project implementation. The NTF also established Expert Analytical Center (EAC)
for quality evaluation of the content of all activities, and especially the quality of all teaching and
learning materials and resources developed at different stages, as well as for provision of
recommendations on improving their quality and enhancing Project effectiveness. The MoES
Strategic Committee reviewed EAC work plans and performance annually and approved lists of
analytical works to be executed by EAC.




                                                  32

                   ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

(including assumptions in the analysis)

As discussed under Section 3.3 (Efficiency) in the main text.




                                          33

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES



(a) Task Team members


            Names                       Title                 Unit Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Mary Canning              Consultant                        ECSHD
Isak Froumin              Sr Education Spec.                ECSHD
Kirill Vasiliev           Education Spec.                   ECSHD
Andrei V. Tolstopiatenko  Senior Information Officer        WBIGM
Alexandre Roukavichnikov  Procurement Specialist             ECSPS
Anahit Poghosyan          Office Manager                    ECSHD
Alexander Mizgunov        Financial Management               ECRFM
Shobhana Sosale
Ian Hamilton              Consultant
Martin Godfrey            Consultant
Stephen T. Kerr           Consultant                        ECSHD
Karl Scamsing             Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS
Alyona Korneva            Disbursement Analyst               ECRFM
Irina Reshetnikova        Program Assistant                  ECCU1


Supervision/ICR
Isak Froumin              Sr Education Spec.                ECSHD
Kirill Vasiliev           Education Spec.                   ECSHD
Tigran Shmis              E T Consultant                    ECSHD
Galina S. Kuznetsova      Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS
Alexandre Roukavichnikov  Procurement Specialist             ECSPS
Andrei V. Tolstopiatenko  Senior Information Officer        WBIGM
Stephen T. Kerr           Consultant                        ECSHD
Anahit Poghosyan          Office Manager                    ECSHD
Aziz Mamatov              ET Consultant                      ECSPS
Mamta Murthi              Sector Manager, Education         ECSHD
Rajendra Dhoj Joshi       Sr Education Spec.                SASHD
Olena Bekh                Education Specialist               ECSHD
Juan Diego Alonso         Education Economist               ECSHD
Jennifer Manghinang       Sr. Program Assistant             ECSHD
Irina Reshetnikova        Program Assistant                  ECCU1




                                          34

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                              No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                       consultant costs)


Lending

  FY02                                19.00               46,297.61
  FY03                                33.86               99,581.28
  FY04                                27.17               67,377.74
  FY05
  FY06
  FY07
  FY08

                       Total:         80.03              213,256.63
Supervision/ICR
  FY02
  FY03
  FY04                                13.82               45,674.38
  FY05                                11.42               25,557.97
  FY06                                33.73               73,936.88
  FY07                                44.93               81,485.30
  FY08                                35.83               81,908.09
  FY09                                19.34               42,030.19

                       Total:       159.07               350,592.81




                                  35

                                                        ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

(if any)

There were two types of Beneficiary Surveys carried out during the lifetime of the Project.

The first instrument was called "Social Survey of School Assessment of ICT Use" and
was administered to a series of students, teachers, and school administrators at the
beginning and towards the end of the ELSP's lifetime (2005 and 2008). This was meant
to assess ICT self-awareness levels of different participants of the Project. The
comparative results for those participants that were tested showed statistically significant
changes in the number of participants that self-assessed as having low ICT skills back in
2005 vs. those in 2008 (administrators: 32.9% vs. 16.9%; teachers: 41.5% vs. 35.2%;
students: 34.6% vs. 27.6%).


                                             Social Survey of School ICT Use: Self-perception of ICT Literacy,
                                                                  by type of respondent


              st                             High
                endutS                       Low



                      rsehcaeT               High



                                             Low




       ol
         hocS                 rsotratsinimda High



                                             Low


                                                 0      5      10     15      20       25   30     35      40    45

                                                                                  %

                                                                    2005/2006  2007/2008




The second instrument was the "Training Effectiveness Survey" and was carried out only
in the month of March 2008 among participants, from both pilot and disseminating
regions of the various training modules of ELSP (teachers, school administrators, and
librarians). It was a short instrument containing only 10 questions that was distributed to
a random sample of about 5% of the almost 50,000 participants trained until October
2007. This questionnaire, though, included a very interesting question inquired about the
usage of different ICT resources for daily work prior to the courses and after the training


                                                                             36

took place. The results were highly significantly positive for all three types of
stakeholders showing an increase of usage of ICT-related resources for day-to-day work
from an average range of increase of 1.4 times (text editor) to almost 3 times (programs
for development of websites).

              Training Effectiveness Survey: Analysis of ICT use
                     for participants before and after training




              ICT tools used     Type of                  Total
                                participant
                                               % used   % used % Change in
                                               before    after     use

                                 Teachers        43       62        46

                Text Editor    Administrators    50       63        28
                                 Librarians      51       72        42
                                   Total         45       63        41
                                 Teachers        26       60       131
                Powerpoint     Administrators    32       57        78
               presentations     Librarians      26       65       149
                                   Total         27       60       118
                                 Teachers        16       45       182
                   Digital
               Educational     Administrators    20       48       137

                 Resources       Librarians      14       42       213
                                   Total         17       45       172
                                 Teachers         6       18       231
               Programs for
                  creating     Administrators    10       20       103

                 websites        Librarians       3       14       400
                                   Total          6       18       192

               Establishing /    Teachers        23       55       144
              Joining networks Administrators    33       61        82
                 using the       Librarians      23       57       148
                  Internet         Total         25       57       125
                                 Teachers        15       36       140

               Use of email    Administrators    29       54        89
                                 Librarians      11       37       243
                                   Total         18       40       126




                                           37

            ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS


No stakeholder workshops were conducted.




                                        38

    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

  Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation
                         NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION


                    E-LEARNING SUPPORT PROJECT
                                        (LOAN 4726-RU)


                               Project completion report


                                            2005 ­ 2008

                                          Moscow ­ 2008


1.     Project objectives and structure


       The E-Learning Support Project (ELSP) was financed from the IBRD Loan in the
amount of $300,000,000 provided to the Russian Federation pursuant to the Loan
Agreement 4726-RU signed on December 7, 2004 in compliance with the Resolution of
the Government of the Russian Federation No. 593 of November 4, 2004. The Ministry
of Education and Science of the Russian Federation was the Loan beneficiary and
implemented the Project. The Loan Agreement became effective on February 28, 2005
and was terminated on the Loan closing date June 30, 2008. The Amendment to the Loan
Agreement was made in the allocation of funds between the disbursement categories and
increase of the threshold ceiling for the NCB in order to maximise the efficiency in use of
the Loan funds.

       The National Training Foundation (NTF) acted as the ELSP implementing agency
at Federal and regional levels under the Agency Contract No. 01-01-06/04-7 of February
2, 2005 concluded by the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of
Education and Science of the Russian Federation and the National Training Foundation.
       ELSP was carried out in 7 Project pilot regions14 under Agreements on Regions'
Participation in the E-Learning Support Project concluded by the Ministry of Education
and Science of the Russian Federation, NTF and Administrations of each of the 7 ELSP
Pilot regions in March ­ April 2005. 29 more regions of the Russian Federation joined
the Project on a competitive basis starting from the end 2006 in order to disseminate the
Project lessons.



14Kaluga, Chelyabinsk and Perm oblasts (Permsky krai later on), Krasnoyarsky, Stavropolsky and
Khabarovsky krais, and the Republic of Karelia.



                                                39

        The Loan Agreement envisaged the 2-phases project implementation (2005 ­
2008 and 2009 ­ 2011) with the first tranche allocation of USD 100 mln. In the autumn
of 2007 the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation decided to carry
out the second phase of ELSP using the funds of federal and regional target programs. In
this way, the review of the first phase of ELSP is actually the final report on the Project
as a whole.

        The ESLP aimed at achieving three interconnected objectives:

    · To activate student's learning; to form his/her organizational ability, the ability
        for independent learning, finding and using the required information, working in a
        team, finding solutions in unconventional situations, and problems solving;

    · To promote teacher's and school staff's creative activity, their using active
        methods of teaching and flexible and constantly augmented methodological
        instruments;

    · To provide for the affordability of quality educational resources and services for
        any school student interested in them.

        The first of the stated objectives was to be achieved through developing and
embedding new-generation teaching and learning materials (TLM) based on the use of
new educational technologies that were meant for active methods of learning. The second
objective was to be achieved by way of creating conditions for teacher's in-service
training and by transforming facilitation teachers' methodological support services. The
third objective was to be achieved by way of furnishing free-for-all digital educational
resources of good quality and developing Internet-aided instruction.

        General schools were to become the main beneficiaries of the ELSP. Changes in
everyday educational practices were to be viewed as the main indicator of successful
performance. Mastering of ICT assets was to stimulate the transformation of current
educational practices and conduce to the appearance of new ones. Changes in the content,
methods and organizational forms of study were to be bolstered by the new-generation
teaching and learning materials accessible to teachers as well as by normative, legal and
regulative documents ensuring effective organization of modern-day studies.

        All activities within the ELSP framework were divided into three Components.
ELSP was designed as an integral and systems project. All its Components and programs
were closely interconnected. The table 1 below shows the ELSP structure and major
activities within its framework. All works under the Project were organized on a
competitive basis.



         Component A                     Component B                  Component C

New-generation teaching and         Teacher training in the       Building a network of

      learning materials            educational use of ICT        Interschool Resource
                                                                         Centers

     1. Development of a              1. Organization of          1. Strategic planning
   regulatory framework for        training in the educational      and management.



                                             40

digital educational information      uses of ICT for new and   2. Setting up a network
  resources development and            working teachers and     of Interschool Resource
               use.                    education managers.           Centers (IRC).

        2. Creation and             o Formation of educator's     o Making up IRC
    systematization of digital         basic ICT-competence.          standard design.
     educational resources.            o Development of a           o Selection and
 o Creation of collections of             system of in-service       instruction of IRC
      information sources for             teacher training and           personnel.
         general and initial                methodological
       vocational education.                    support.           o IRC equipping,
                                                                     connecting to the
 o Development of tools for            o Internet support of        Internet and putting
       teaching and learning            teacher's professional         into operation.
              activities.                       growth.           3. RCC-IRC based
     o Development of an                o Training of new      facilitation system for the
       informational support                    teachers.      informatization of general
         system for studies            2. Development of         and initial vocational
           organization.             Russian potentials in the         education.

   o Development of sets of             area of instructional     4. Forming public
       teaching and learning                   design.             support to school
     materials oriented toward         3. Development of a          informatization.
        the achievement of            network of educational   5. Promotion of Project
     qualitatively new learning        institutions providing     attainments to other
             outcomes.                classroom and distance             regions.
 3. Development of a testing           instruction to school      Support to regional
 system for new teaching and                  students.        education informatization
learning materials and methods                                           projects.
          of their use.



        Component A incorporated a cycle of creation and production of new-generation
teaching and learning materials (TLM), which served to renovate the content of education
and form new procedures of studies organization. Component B focused on the
development of instructional and methodological materials for upgrading teachers and on
the instruction of regional facilitators who would work with IRC and individual schools.
In Component C emphasis was placed on arranging upgrading courses and continuous
methodological support to teachers at large. Close coordination between the Components
was maintained owing to the through organization of educator training where were
engaged TLM authors, education managers and methods specialists of all levels, as well
all subject teachers in the Project pilot regions.




                                               41

2.     Project Outcomes

              Component A. New-generation teaching and learning materials

1.     A set of methodological recommendations, "Regulatory Framework for the
School of Informatization", approved by the Department of State Policy and Normative-
Legal Regulation in Education, was used by schools participating in ELSP as a model
regulation for local acts. These materials were also used while preparing methodological
recommendations that were sent to all Russian schools within the framework of the
program of schools connection to the Internet under the Priority National Project
"Education".

2.     Normative technological requirements for developers of Digital Educational
Resources (DER) were elaborated based on the IMS consortium specifications and form a
basis for DER inclusion into the Unified Collection of Digital Educational Resources in
the section "For DER Developers".

3.     Three types of teaching and learning materials (TLM) were developed under
ELSP:

           4) 127 Sets of digital educational resources (SDER) that comply with
               conventional practices and illustrate (or supplement) conventional
               textbooks approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of the
               Russian Federation. Methods of embedding such teaching and learning
               materials into the conventional study process were developed under the
               Project. The new developments cover most of the basic school curriculum
               (BSC) parts, including 9 subject domains and 14 BSC subjects.

           5) 33 Complex information sources (CIS) that can be used in both the
               conventional study process and as supporting material in innovative
               educational practices. Here the requirements to the development of
               methodological recommendations were more rigorous.

           6) 69 Sets of innovative teaching and learning materials (SITLM) to support
               educational innovations. Here the requirements to the quality of
               methodological recommendations on their application and the study
               process organization were even more rigorous.

All competitions had two rounds: the first was the competition of concepts, and the
second the competition of TLM detailed outlines. Although each type of the TLM listed
above is oriented to the solution of a local task, in the aggregate they cover the whole
spectrum of resources which the state-of-the-art information and communication
technology can give to school.

The fact that the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation asked for
holding an additional competition for the development of SDER to the existing textbooks
may be viewed as an indicator of success and appropriateness of the work done under
ELSP.

The competition procedure proposed in ELSP should be considered as an important result.
The development process was organized as progressive movement from concept



                                           42

formulation to detailed outline and further to the creation of the final product by
segregating its substantial elements and their testing. Such procedure can be
recommended for use in other projects for the development of e-learning contents.

4.      The Unified Collection of Digital Educational Resources (Collection) represents
systematized digital teaching and learning materials that are arranged as subject and
thematic collections united by a unified system of resource description and a unified
search system. The Collection provides all general school teachers and students with the
teaching and learning materials that are needed for the study process realization and
facilitates progressive transformation of learning activities in the mass school.

5.      In total, there are about 250,000 information objects in the Collection that meet
the basic requirements of the Federal Component of the State education standard for
general and initial vocational education. Considering streamed-level and additional
education, the figure will increase to 500,000 at the minimum. The number of
information objects in the Collection should surpass by far the number of similar non-
digital objects used in contemporary school.

6.      School managerial software. As digital system for organization and support of the
study process, 1C: Obrazovanie 4. Shkola, was developed and delivered to all schools in
the ELSP pilot regions. The system is employed for the unification of all components of
educational resources that are developed under ELSP. The system enables schools to use
the resources developed by different producers in a single content control system, which
significantly facilitates teacher training.

7.      The software package 1C: ChronoGraf Shkola 2.5 was developed under ELSP
and delivered to all Russian general education institutions within the framework of the
"Education" National Priority Project.

8.      The software package "ChronoGraf 3.0 Master" purchased under contract
ELSP/A2/02/G/05/ICB was delivered to all general schools of the ELSP pilot regions and
placed in the Unified Collection of Digital Educational Resources. Besides, it was
delivered to all Russian general education institutions within the framework of the
"Education" National Priority Project. This program is actively used for drawing
timetables by the schools in the ELSP pilot regions where adequate training has been
provided.

9.      Mass distribution of these programs was fulfilled due to the efforts taken in order
to embed software packages for the study process administration into school management
practices (contract ELSP/1/C/009-06) within the framework of subcomponent B1.

10.     Informational tools for teaching activities. The system of informational tools for
teaching activities was formed alongside works on forming the sample collection, sample
analysis and sample purchase and/or development. As a result, tools for geometric
construction, visualization of chronological information and genealogical tree operation,
as well as a geoinformation system were developed and/or purchased (Table 3.6) and
afterwards placed in the Collection. Also, to populate the Collection, two versions of a
server operating system distributed under a free license were prepared.

11.     A system of teaching and learning materials testing had been built and put into
operation in the course of ELSP implementation. Testing (expert examination and TLM


                                             43

testing in real studies) was carried out directly in schools (testing sites) and integrated into
the process of TLM development, which made it possible to perfect the TLM being
developed and improve their quality in the course of Project implementation.

Component B. Teacher training in the educational use of ICT

12.     Formation of Educator's Basic Educational ICT-Competence. Following the
competitions 22 regions participated in this work in different phases of the Project.
Alternative programs and sets of modular instructional and methodological materials for
72 academic hours were developed to carry out this work. The materials were arranged in
the form of a set (a manual including digital learning materials with attached
methodological recommendations on the organization of studies), and also in the form
convenient for their placement on the website of the organization responsible for training.

13.     It was planned to train 60,000 persons in 22 regions in ICT-competence. Actually,
76,898 received training in the period from September 1, 2005 to May 31, 2008, that is,
128% of the planned figure. The target groups of trainees were composed of subject
teachers, school managers, education administrators, and librarians. There were three
forms of training: full-time, full-time/distance and external. All trainees who completed
training were granted certificates of competence.

14.     The analysis shows that conferences and workshops were the most popular forms
of feedback (stated by 95% of the regions). Telephone consultations were also used
widely (90%), as well as E-mail (90%) and Internet chats devoted to ICT introduction
into school subject teaching (80%).           Forty six conferences, 78 workshops, 24
competitions of projects, and 25 training sessions and master classes were held at the
regional level in the 15 new regions of the Project.

15.     Internet Support of Educator's Professional Growth. Nineteen competition
winning organizations/educational institutions were awarded grants (Table 3.9). They
worked out development plans and (a) updated their Internet sites where electronic
libraries for teaching and learning materials in various subject domains were created; (b)
opened Internet consulting agencies for teacher; (c) organized forums to discuss the
experience and the results of educational initiative support within the ELSP framework.

16.     One of the significant outcomes of the program was the wide discussion of
Internet support to teachers and formation of distributed network professional teachers'
communities held at the main Russian conferences ITO-2006 and ITO-2007. The
discussion confirmed that the program was conducive to the involvement of a great many
educators in active use of Internet technologies.

17.     Training of New Teachers. 10 Higher teacher training institutions developed
about 150 teaching modules and courses (about 150% of the planned figure) for training
new teachers in the methods of DER use in their professional activity, as well as in the
instructional design application for the study process organization in the ICT-
environment.

18.     During two academic years (2006/07 and 2007/08) more than 4500 students
(future teachers) received training in effective uses of DER in school studies, as well as in
instructional design (two times more than planned). In the course of training students



                                              44

prepared methods aids (scenarios) for lessons with the use of DER, projects, their own
DER, and portfolios. The best of these were displayed on the websites of their institutions.

19.     The Laboratories of Digital Educational Resources and Instructional Design set
up in all of the higher teachers training institutions greatly contributed to the success of
the program

20.     In course of ELSP preparation a gap between the high technological level of
digital educational resources making by Russian developers and low pedagogical
effectiveness of the developed materials. To eliminate this gap and encourage the
systematic use of knowledge about effective teaching and learning (in particular, in ICT-
environment) in the process of TLM design, development, assessment and use in Russian
educational practices, the program "Development of the Instructional Design Potential"
was included into the ELSP framework. However, the Strategic Committee of the
Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation decided to transfer these
activities to the ELSP second phase.

21.     In order to compensate for the delay and considering the importance of this
program for attaining the desired ELSP outcomes in the area of new-generation TLM
development, the NTF (1) had organized and conducted a series of 3 workshops on
instructional design, each for 100 to 200 TLM developers-winners of relevant
competitions and (2) provisions were made in the new teachers' training program for the
development and pilot testing in teacher training institutions of instructional design
courses for future teachers using the materials created within the ELSP framework. The
course syllabuses were developed and are now used in teacher training. A project for
future teachers' specialization in instructional design along various lines was drafted.

22.     Internet-aided instruction of school students at the streamed level. Taking into
consideration the traditional approach to streamed-level training, which is practiced in
full-time streamed classes, it was decided to develop 3 different streamed e-learning
systems. Therefore 3 Consultants firms selected on a competitive basis, carried on pilot
streamed-level training of 10th- and 11th-grade students in 7 Project pilot regions during
two years.

23.     E-learning STLM were developed for training school students at the streamed
level in 14 subjects: Russian, Literature, Foreign Language (English/German),
Mathematics, Informatics, History, Social Science, Economics, Law, Geography,
Biology, Physics, Chemistry and World Artistic Culture). A system of network teacher
and curator training took shape: its structure and content have been defined and effective
forms of training that combine full-time and distance training have been specified. Pilot
training helped establish most stable models of basic and additional forms of teaching.
Additional training of network teachers and curators was carried mostly via special
workshops and special websites.

24.      Development of educational institutions providing distance instruction to school
students. The unique system of correspondence schools was one of the mechanisms
compensating for the cultural and educational inequality of different Russian regions. The
Project made it possible to reveal the most effective distance schools and to demonstrate
their know-how to the educational community, teachers, students and parents. Support
was given to the elaboration and realization of 19 development programs for educational


                                             45

institutions engaged in distance instruction of school students. The following figures
reflect the results attained under these programs.

     · The technological infrastructure of the distance schools that received grants in
     support of their development was replenished with 21 servers, 7 mobile classrooms,
     20 multimedia projection devices, 9 mini printing shops, 260 computers and various
     software programs.

     · The number of students supplied with educational services through distance
     schools grew by more that 75%: 37,428 students (including 4,045 rural students) are
     taught presently by various distance school programs compared with 21,260 in 2004.

     · The range of supplied educational services broadened and their quality improved.
     This happened due to the distance school TLM digitizing, development of new
     courses (more than 80 courses are being developed), and the use of the Internet to
     organize work with school students.

     · Teaching by new TLM with the use of the Internet which were supplied by
     education managing bodies in compliance with the general (streamed-level) school
     programs began.

Component C. Setting up Interschool Resource Centers

25.     The network of 239 RCC / IRC was built in 7 pilot regions with the purpose of
forming an educational information environment for the Russian Federation regions so
that to involve the greatest possible numbers of teachers and learners into
informatization processes. All centers were equipped with ICT facilities (hardware and
software), the IRC personnel was enlisted and trained.

26.     All centers were equipped with hardware and software and connected to the
Internet. Apart from computer and presentation facilities, active networking equipment,
infrastructural software, antiviral software, and air conditioners for server rooms were
purchased. All premises of the centers were repaired (financed from local budgets). All
centers were supplied with initial content for their media libraries (instructional and
methodological materials on 72 CDs).

27.     An alternative in-service educator training program was developed at the federal
level for all IRC. The teachers of educational institutions attached to IRC were trained by
this program. Along with the ICT-competence program, IRC realized a number of other
programs using, in particular, the modules developed in the regions. Those programs
were aimed at mastering user skills in the context of professional activity; individual
software products (by teachers); facilitator work and professional interaction with the use
of telecommunication facilities; ICT application techniques as a resource of a particular
pedagogical technology.

28.     In total, 75,017 educators (137% of the planned figure), including those whose
training was additionally financed by the region, took the IRC in-service training courses
during Project implementation. The greatest number of trained educators was in
Chelyabinsk oblast. There the number of educators whose training was additionally
financed by the region was nearly equal to the number of those trained under the Project.
In total, 24,217 educators were given IRC-based training.


                                             46

29.    By the time of ELSP completion, plans of the RCC-IRC system further
development had been worked out in all Project pilot regions and approved by the
Strategic Committee of the MOES. In most cases the plans envisaged changes in the
organizational and legal status of a number of centers in order to maintain their steady
activity after the Project completion.

30.    The methodological assistance to school teachers and methods specialists of the
educational institutions attached to IRC and work with school teams included:

    · Regular methodological consultations to IRC facilitators and teachers of
       educational institutions attached to IRC, including organization of network
       consultations on the assets of the informational-methodological environment
       created under the Project;

    · Expansion and maintenance of the regional repository of initiative pedagogical
       developments (as part of the Unified Collection of Digital Educational
       Resources);

    · Organization of regular assistance to teachers and methods specialists of the
       educational institutions attached to IRC by providing available educational and
       technical resources, including provision of access to the Internet educational
       resources;

    · Organization and conduct of workshops, master classes and conferences to
       promote pedagogical experience and educational initiatives in the area of ICT
       applications in studies;

    · Organization of free access to the IRC media library and Internet educational
       resources for teachers and students of the educational institutions attaché to IRC;

    · Encouraging teachers' teams and individual initiative teachers of general and IVE
       schools attached to IRC to participate in competitions in support of educational
       initiatives in the area of ICT uses in studies (within the framework of regional
       competitions organized by RCC), and offering IRC technical resources for the
       realization of innovative projects within the competition framework.

31.    Daily assistance to educators on various matters relating to ICT embedding into
the study process was an important line of IRC activity. Face-to-face and distance
(network) consultations were provided individually, frontally and by groups. IRC
consultations can be grouped by the following topics:

32.    Regional repositories were arranged in all the 7 Project pilot regions in 2007 as
mirrors of the Unified Collection of Digital Educational Resources, and were integrated
into the Collection. Each region had a special mechanism and regulations for the
selection of resources developed by regional teachers and their storing in the regional
repository (RR).

33.    In the course of project implementation (2005 ­ 2008) RCC organized many
competitions of educational initiatives in two areas (1) Support of educational initiatives
of individual educators and educators' teams in the area of general and initial
vocational education informatization; and (2) Support of initiative network projects
presented by educational institutions and designed for widening the learners' access to


                                             47

competitions and olympiads on the basis of ICT. Competitions were held twice a year,
beginning from August 2005. Educational institutions, initiative educators' teams and/or
individual teachers, authors of educational projects, took part in the competitions. Winners
were financed under individual and/or collective agreements or agreements with educational
institutions from RCC funds for advisory services.

34.      The E-Learning Support Project reached a new level in 2006, when the
competition for dissemination of project outcomes was announced. Target financing
programs were launched in 22 regions along the following lines:

(A).        Training of the regional and/or municipal education management personnel
with the purpose of increasing education management efficiency using ICT (3 regions:
Tver oblast, Kirov oblast and Sakha (Yakutia) Republic);

(B).        Introduction of the state-of-the-art ICT into school management practices (11
regions);

(C).        Introduction of the IRC model to support general education informatization (8
regions ­ Chuvash Republic, Khanty-Mansy Autonomus Okrug ­ Yugra, Republic Tatars
tan, Moscow oblast, Yaroslavl oblast, Novosibirsk oblast, Astrakhan oblast, Togliatti
town).

35.      Active participation of RCC in all-Russian and international conference as well as
regular publication of project materials also contributed to the propagation of Project
achievement. In the period from the second part of 2007 to the first quarter of 2008
reports on the activities of regional IRC networks were presented at 28 forums. The list of
major publications (books and brochures) issued during Project implementation is given
in Annex 1 (YI R).

Project sustainability

1. Links with other federal projects.

         a. Joint activities under ELSP and the "Education" National Priority Project
            initiated by the Ministry of Education and Science proved to be productive.
            The delivery of workstations to school managers and the started delivery of
            outfit (computer, software and a peripheral unit) to teachers-winners in the
            "Education" project residing in the ELSP pilot regions have demonstrated the
            possibility of fruitful joining of efforts at the federal level within the
            frameworks of different projects

         b. The designs and plans of the "Education" National Priority Project and the
            Federal Target Program of Education Development were worked out after the
            ELSP design had been already agreed and approved. Naturally enough, many
            ELSP ideas found reflection in new projects and programs. However, the
            borrowings were made mostly on the level of documents as a rule, without
            being discussed for practical purposes by the Russian and international experts
            who developed the ELSP design. For this reason, far from all opportunities for
            constructive cooperation between ELSP and other federal projects and
            programs had been used.




                                             48

       c. The analysis of cooperation between ELSP and other federal projects has
           shown that the jobs combined at the federal level had been performed more
           effectively in the regions. For example, the RCC-IRC facilitators were the
           main performers of jobs under the "Education" project in the regions.

2. Project outcomes coverage.

       a. The consistent work on acquainting the broad educational community with the
           Project concept, design, progress and outcomes carried by ELSP participants
           was conducive to shaping a positive attitude to the Project countrywide and
           instrumental in the propagation of its attainments: the competition of the
           interested regions passed very actively. As was evident from practice, the
           support from the mass media was an important element of control over the
           Project and contributed to its success in the regions. As concerns the central
           TV, there the E-Learning Support Project was obscured by the "Education"
           National Priority Project. Meanwhile, the conventional means of informing
           the educational profession about the Project progress and outcomes were
           insufficient for gaining a desirable public response.

       b. The interest in ELSP and its positive image in the public mind, which was
           evidenced from hundreds of thousands references to the Project in the Internet,
           demanded greater responsibility of Project participants in the regions for the
           quality and effectiveness of their work.

3.     Two phases of the E-Learning Support Project were planned initially. The first-
phase developments make it possible to advance in the Russian school modernization, in
particular

   · To put into practice the established system of new TLM development and testing;
   · To perfect and bring to the marketable condition the developments in the Internet-
       aided streamed-level instruction of school students;

   · To continue with the Unified Collection of Digital Educational Resources (its
       further build-up and opening services for parents, students, schools, and
       educators);

   · To expand support to the educational institutions providing distance instruction to
       school children and Internet support to educators;

   · To continue the renovation of teacher training methods based on ICT assets.

New tools have been created under ELSP, which have never existed in the Russian
school, such as

   · tools to assess the ICT-competence of school students and teachers;
   · a cluster model of the school informatization process to assess progressive
       changes in schools and assist the school teams who work out and update school
       development (informatization) programs.




                                            49

  4.      The completed E-Learning Support Project has created conditions for large-scale
  introduction of innovative teaching and learning materials developed within its
  framework which let attain new educational outcomes in an ICT environment.


                                      Main ELSP publications

                        (List of books and CDs issued under the Project)

No.    Title

1.     Information Technologies in Education Management. CD in plastic envelope.
2.     Information Technologies in Education Management. Book & CD (Part 1). Ed. S.M. Avdeeva,
       M.Yu. Baryshnikova and A.A. Yelizarov. 168 pp.
3.     Information Technologies in Education Management. Book (Part 2). Ed. S.M. Avdeeva, M.Yu.
       Baryshnikova and A.A. Yelizarov. 208 pp.
4.     Information Technologies in Education Management. Upgrading Program and Methods. Book. Ed.
       S.M. Avdeeva, M.Yu. Baryshnikova and A.A. Yelizarov. 80 pp.
5.     Information Technologies in Subject Teacher's Activities. Book & CD (Part 1). Ed. A.K.
       Kapitanskaya and A.A. Yelizarov. 172 pp.
6.     Information Technologies in Subject Teacher's Activities. Book (Part 2). Ed. A.K. Kapitanskaya
       and A.A. Yelizarov. 196 pp.
7.     Information Technologies in Subject Teacher's Activities. Upgrading Program and Methods. Book.
       Ed. A.K. Kapitanskaya and A.A. Yelizarov. 44 pp.
8.     ELSP Interschool Resources Centers. Reference book. 280 pp.
9.     Interschool Resources Centers: Work Organization. Book & CD. By K.B. Vasilyev, S.K.
       Kovalenko, D.Yu. Stolyarov and M.S. Tsvetkova. 140 pp.
10.    Building a Model of School Informatization Process. Book. By G.M. Vodopyan and A.Yu. Uvarov.
       424 pp.
11.    Dissemination of Innovative Teaching and Learning Materials. Book. By A.Yu. Uvarov and G.M.
       Vodopyan. Moscow: Universitetskaya Kniga, 2008, 175 pp.
12.    Digital Educational Resources in School: Application Methods. Elementary School. Instructional
       and methodological materials for teacher training institutions. Book. Moscow: Universitetskaya
       Kniga, 2008, 157 pp.
13.    Digital Educational Resources in School: Application Methods. Mathematics and Informatics.
       Instructional and methodological materials for teacher training institutions. Book. Moscow:
       Universitetskaya Kniga, 2008, 303 pp.
14.    Digital Educational Resources in School: Application Methods. Natural Science. Instructional and
       methodological materials for teacher training institutions. Book. Moscow: Universitetskaya Kniga,
       2008, 478 pp.
15.    Digital Educational Resources in School: Application Methods. Philology. Instructional and
       methodological materials for teacher training institutions. Book. Moscow: Universitetskaya Kniga,
       2008, 214 pp.
16.    Digital Educational Resources in School: Application Methods. Social Science. Instructional and
       methodological materials for teacher training institutions. Book. Moscow: Universitetskaya Kniga,
       2008, 223 pp.
17.    Digital Educational Resources in School: Instructional Design. Instructional and methodological
       materials for teacher training institutions. Book. Moscow: Universitetskaya Kniga, 2008, 557 pp.
18.    Attitudes of Participants in the Education Process to Information and Communication Technologies.


                                                    50

    Book. By V.S. Sobkin and D.V. Adamchuk, 182 pp.
19. Set 1: Collection of Russian Classical Music (From the Unified Collection of Digital Information
    Resources). 2 CD
20. Set 2: Collection of Russian Classical Music (From the Unified Collection of Digital Information
    Resources). 2 CD
21. Set 3: Collection of Russian Classical Music (From the Unified Collection of Digital Information
    Resources). 2 CD




                                             51

  ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


Not Applicable




                                 52

                       ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


Bank-related documents:
1. Project Concept Document (PCN), April 25, 2002
2. Minutes from the Quality Enhancement Review, June 17, 2002
3. Minutes from the Project Concept Review Meeting, June 27, 2002
4. Minutes from the Decision Package Review Meeting, March 17, 2003
5. Summary of Technical Discussions and Negotiations, December 22, 2003
6. Project Appraisal Document, January 20, 2004
7. Loan Agreement, December 7, 2004
8. Supplemental Letter to the Loan Agreement, December 3, 2004
9. Amendment to the Loan Agreement, April 14, 2008
10. Implementation Supervision and Results Reports (04/07/2004 through 07/26/2008)
11. Aide Memoires from Project-related Missions (April 2002 through February 2007)
12. Audit Reports (2005 through 2008 (draft))
13. Financial Monitoring Reports (3rd quarter of 2006 through 1st quarter of 2008)
14. ECA Quality Review of ISR, June 11, 2007

Instruments used for monitoring and evaluation purposes:
1. School ICT Test (April 2006-April 2008)
2. ICT Competence Test Report (April 2006-April 2008)
3. Social Survey of School Assessment of ICT Use (April 2006 and April 2008)
4. Training Effectiveness Survey (March 2008)

Documents produced by Project Implementation Unit:
1. Attitude of Education Process Participants toward Information and Communication
    Technologies, 2006
2. ELSP Mid-Term Review: Years 2005-2006, 2007
3. Digital Educational Resources in School: Use and Methods, 2008
4. Knowledge Society and School. Learning and Methodic Materials for Skills
    Development Course, 2008
5. New Generation Learning Materials: The ELSP Experience, 2008
6. Monitoring of Social Consequences of ICT Introduction: What has changed in schools in
    the last 3 years? 2008
7. Regional Education System Informatization: Organization and Methodic Support, 2008
8. ELSP Final Review: 2005-2008, 2008

Other Background Documents:
1. Reforming Education in the Regions of Russia", Canning, Moock & Heleniak, World
    Bank Technical Paper No.457, December 1999
2. Russian Federation: E-Learning Policy to Transform Russian Schools", World Bank,
    Report No.25893-RU, April 29, 2003
3. "The Modernization of Education in Russia: Outstanding Issues", World Bank, Policy
    Note, August 2004.




                                            53

         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                            70°N                                           80°N                                                                                  80°N                                    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                   ARCTIC                           OCEAN
         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bering
         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                 Nor wegian Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Strait

            NETH.
            NETH.                                         NORWANORW Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60°N
                            DENMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Range

                                                                                      SWEDEN
                                                                                      SWEDEN                                                        B a r e n t s        Franz Josef                                                                                                                Andayr
       GERMANY
       GERMANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                East Siberian
                                                                                                                                                          S e a                 Land
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea                                                          AnadyrAnadyr

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Severnaya                                    New Siberia
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Zemlya                                     Islands
                                   RUSSIAN                                                        FINLAND
                                                                                                  FINLAND                              MurmanskMurmansk         Novaya
                                              FED.                                                                                                               Zemlya

                       KaliningradKaliningrad                                                                                       KolaKola                                                                                        Laptev
                POLAND
                POLAND                          LITH.LITH.          LALATTVIAVIA   ESTO
                                                                                   ESTO
                                                                                   ESTONIA                                          Pen.Pen.                                  Kara         Sea
                                                                                                               Karelia
                                                                                                               Karelia                                                                                                                Sea
                                                                                                  Saint Petersburg
                                                                                                  Saint Petersburg                                                                                               Peninsula
                                                                                  PskovPskov                  Petrozavodsk
                                                                                                              Petrozavodsk                                                                                                                                          Indigir     myloK
                                                                                               Novgorod
                                                                                               Novgorod                                                                                                    Taymyr
                                                                                                                      Arkhangel'sk
                                                                                                                      Arkhangel'sk                                                                                                                                                 a
                                BELARUS
                                BELARUS                                                                                                                Nar'yan Mar
                                                                                                                                                       Nar'yan Mar                                                                                           Cherskiy ak                                        Range
                                                                                                                                                                            Yamal
                                                                                                                                                                             amal                                                                                      Range
                                                                                Smolensk
                                                                                Smolensk                                                                                     Pen.
                                                                                                                                                                             Pen.
                                                                                               TverTver     Vologda
                                                                                                            Vo ogda                                                                   Gyda
                                                                                                                                                                                      Gyda                        Khatanga ibe       Lowland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S    rian                                                                                         PalanaPalana

                                                                                                                                                                    Vorkuta
                                                                                                                                                                       rkuta           Pen.
                                                                                                                                                                                       Pen.
                      UKRAINEBryanskOrelOrel
                      UKRAINEBryansk                                            KalugaKaluga
                                                                                      MOSCOWMOSCOWYa    Yaroslavl
                                                                                                           oslavl       KotlasKotlas                                                                                                                                                                      Kolmya
                                                                                                          Kostroma
                                                                                                          Kostroma                                                                           Dudinka
                                                                                                                                                                                             Dudinka
                                                                                                        Ivanovo
                                                                                                        Ivanovo                       Syktyvkar
                                                                                                                                      Syktyvkar                       Salekhard
                                                                                                                                                                      Salekhard
                                                          KurskKursk              Tula
                                                                                   ula            Vladimir
                                                                                                  Vladimir                                             Mts.     Obb
                                                                                                                                                                O                                                                               Lena
                                                                                       Ryazan
                                                                                       Ryazan                                                                                                                                                                                                             Magadan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Magadan
                                                                                                          Nizhny
                                                                                                          Nizhny
                                 Belgorod
                                 Belgorod                                       Lipetsk
                                                                                Lipetsk                   Novgorod
                                                                                                          Novgorod      Kirov
                                                                                                                        Kirov                                                                                                                                                                                                           Petropavlov sk-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Petropavlov sk-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C e n t r a l                                                                                                      KamchatskiyKamchatskiy
                                                          Voronezh
                                                            ronezh                                 Cheboksary
                                                                                                   Cheboksar     Yoshkar-Ola
                                                                                                                   shkar-Ola                      Ural
                                                                                   Tambov
                                                                                      mbov      Saransk
                                                                                                Saransk                              Kudymkar
                                                                                                                                     Kudymkar                                                                                                                                                   Okhotsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Okhotsk
                                                                                       PenzaPenza                Kazan'
                                                                                                                 Kazan'                                                                                                                                                                                              Sea of
                                                                                                                       Izhevsk
                                                                                                                       Izhevsk                                                                                       S i b e r i a n                          Yakutsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 kutsk
          Black                                                                                Ul'yanovsk
                                                                                               Ul'yanovsk                            Perm'Perm'                   Khanty-
                                                                                                                                                                  Khanty-                                             Tura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tu                                                                                                                                           50°N
                                                                                            Saratov
                                                                                            Saratov                                                               Mansiysk
                                                                                                                                                                  Mansiysk                                                                                                                                    Okhotsk
           Sea                               Rostov-
                                             Rostov-
                Krasnodar
                Krasnodar                    on-Don
                                             on-Don                                                                                                                         West
                                                                                                                                                                               est                                     P l a t e a u
                                                                                 Volgograd
                                                                                  olgograd  R..
                                                                                            R             Samara
                                                                                                          Samara         UfaUfa                Yekaterinburg
                                                                                                                                                 katerinburg                                                                                          Lena
                   Maykop
                   Maykop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Alden
                                   Stavropol
                                   Stavropol                                                                                                           Tyumen
                                                                                                                                                       Ty men            SiberianSiberian
                     Cherkessk
                     Cherkessk                                                                                                 Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                               Chelyabinsk                                     Obb
                                                                                                                                                                               O                   Yenisey
              Gora El'brus
              Gora El'brus                                Elista
                                                          Elista                                               Orenburg
                                                                                                               Orenburg                             l
               (5,633 m)
               (5,633 m)                                                                                                                           oKurgan                  PlainPlain             enisey                                                                       DzhugdzhurRange
                                 Nal'chik
                                 Nal'chik                                       Astrakhan
                                                                                Astrakhan      Ural                                            ToobolKurgan
                                                                                                                                               T

                   Vladikavkaz
                   Vladikavkaz     Nazran
                                   Nazran                                                                                                                                                                      Angara
               GEORGIA
               GEORGIA                       Groznyy
                                             Groznyy                                                                                                          Omsk
                                                                                                                                                              Omsk
                                                                                                                                                                                      Tomsk
                                                                                                                                                                                      To sk
                                              Makhachkala
                                              Makhachkala                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Amur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Amur

                                                                                                                                                                                       Kemerovo
                                                                                                                                                                                       Kemerovo      Krasnoyarsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Krasnoyarsk                                                                                                                            Yuzhno-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             uzhno-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sakhalinsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sakhalinsk

               AZERBAIJAN
               AZERBAIJAN                     Caspian Sea                                                                                                               Novosibirsk
                                                                                                                                                                        Novosibirsk


                                                                                                                                                                                      Novokuznetsk
                                                                                                                                                                                      Novokuznetsk                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                                          Barnaul
                                                                                                                                                                          Barnaul                                                                             Blagoveshchensk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Blagoveshchensk                          Khabarovsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Khabarovsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Abakan
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Abakan                              Baikal                                       Birobidzhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Birobidzhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ust' Ordynskiy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ust' Ordynskiy              Chita
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Chita
                                                                                             UZBEKISTAN                  K A Z A K H S TA N                                           Gorno-
                                                                                                                                                                                      Gorno-                            Irkutsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Irkutsk       Ulan Ude
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ulan Ude     Aginskoye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Aginskoye
                                                                                                                                                                                      Altaysk
                                                                                                                                                                                      Altaysk               Kyzyl
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kyzyl
                          RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sikhote-Alin                                 40°N


                 FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vladivostok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vladivostok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C H I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sea of
                      OBLAST CENTERS                                                                                                                                                                              M O N G O L I A                                                                                               Japan

                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D.P.R.                                               J A PA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF
                      RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KOREA

                      MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                              0    200 400 600 Kilometers                                                                              OF
                      RAILROADS                                                                                                                       RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                     KOREA

                      OBLAST, KRAI OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                                                                         FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                              0           200     400       600 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30°N
MA                    AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            33470R
  Y                   REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
   2006
                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                        90°E                         100°E                       110°E                         120°E                                                          130°E

