CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1054 IND
Project Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
DATED NOVEMBER 20, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1054 IND
Project Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
DATED NOVEMBER 20, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 20, 1974, .between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (hereinafter called BAPINDO),
a State Development Bank established and operating under the laws of Republic
of Indonesia.
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BAPINDO agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BAPINDO, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to BAPINDO on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS BAPINDO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Management and Operation of BAPINDO
Section 2.01. BAPINDO shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the BAPINDO Act and Policy
Statement.


﻿4
Section 2.02. BAPINDO shall cause the proceeds of the Loan to be applied
exclusively to expenditures on Investment Projects in respect of which amounts
have been withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions
of this Project Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Loan Agreement, BAPINDO shall submit Investment Projects to the Bank for
approval or for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Bank for approval BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment by BAPINDO of the amount
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be used for the investment, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by BAPINDO for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of
authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before December 31, 1976.


﻿5
Section 2.04. (a) BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning (i) the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) the
Project; (iii) the Investment Enterprises; (iv) the Investment Projects; and (v) the
sub-loans and investments.
(b)   BAPINDO shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Enterprise and Investment Project (including
the cost thereof) and shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 2.05. (a) The Bank and BAPINDO shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and
BAPINDO shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by BAPINDO of its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of BAPINDO and any other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and financial
condition of BAPINDO and its subsidiaries.
(c)   BAPINDO and the Bank shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by BAPINDO of its obligations
under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) BAPINDO shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project financed under a sub-loan or with an investment in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Bank and of BAPINDO, to comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to achieve
the purposes of the Project.
(b)   Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section BAPINDO undertakes that,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made
on terms whereby BAPINDO shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and BAPINDO, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right
of BAPINDO to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with


﻿0
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or BAPINDO shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract
with the Borrower.
(c)   BAPINDO shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of, the Borrower, the Bank and
BAPINDO, (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve
the purposes of the Project.
(d)   BAPINDO    shall submit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by BAPINDO in respect of the repayment
provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.07. BAPINDO shall duly perform all its obligations under
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal
of BAPINDO by the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment
or management. BAPINDO shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any
material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.08. If BAPINDO establishes or acquires any subsidiary, BAPINDO
shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of BAPINDO


﻿7
hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto,
as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.09. BAPINDO shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BAPINDO
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take
all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on
operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.11. BAPINDO shall not amend its Statement of Policy except in
agreement with the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BAPINDO shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BAPINDO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets., statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of BAPINDO and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BAPINDO shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section


﻿8
3.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 3.04. BAPINDO shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BAPINDO which, in the judgment
of the Bank, would materially affect BAPINDO'S ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
BAPINDO, BAPINDO shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt
if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all
its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times
the consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by BAPINDO or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent
the amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and (iii) on deposits as and when they are
received.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupiah debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of BAPINDO and subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by
BAPINDO to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to BAPINDO or to any other
subsidiary.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and subsidiaries"r means
the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of
BAPINDO and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of BAPINDO in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary
in BAPINDO or any other subsidiary.


﻿9
Section 3.06. BAPINDO shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currenciec (including Rupiah) used in its
operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
BAPINDO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify
BAPINDO of this event.
qection 1.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in ful force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿10
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
'United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For BAPINDO
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
P.O. Box 140
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                                   Telex:
BAPINDO                                          BPINKB
Jakarta                                          0144214
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BAPINDO may be taken or executed by its President or such other person
or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of BAPINDO, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by BAPINDO pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. P-ll
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative


