CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1054 IND
Loan Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 20, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1054 IND
Loan Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 20, 1974


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 20, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "BAPINDO" means Bank Pembangunan Indonesia;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and BAPINDO, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BAPINDO pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
BAPINDO out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and
"free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement;


﻿4
(e)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by BAPINDO out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project;
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which BAPINDO
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment;
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;
(h)   "Rupiah" and "Rp." mean the currency of the Borrower;
(i)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower;
(j)   "BAPINDO Act" means the Undang-Undang No. 21 PRP of 1960,
as amended by Undang-Undang No. 17 PRP of 1962 and Presidential Decree No. 2
of 1966 and as further amended from time to time;
(k)   "Policy Statement" means the statement of lending and investment
policy adopted by the Board of Managing Directors, and approved by the
Supervisory Board of BAPINDO on May 19, 1972, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
(1)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by BAPINDO or by any one or more subsidiaries of BAPINDO or by
BAPINDO and one or more of its subsidiaries; and
(m)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement No. 310 IND
dated June 7, 1972. between the Borrower and the Association and related to
a Development Finance Company Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The Borrower irrevocably designates BAPINDO as its
representative for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted under
the provisions ot Section 2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, BAPINDO
may withdraw from the Loan Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
or services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal
is requested:
(i)        such amounts as shall have been expended (or if the Bank shall
so agree, shall be required to meet expenditures to be made)
in a currency other than the currency of the Borrower for goods
procured, or services supplied from, outside the territories of
the Borrower;
(ii)       the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of such amounts as shall
have been expended for vehicles, machinery and equipment
procured in the territories of the Borrower, which percentage
represents the estimated foreign exchange component of such
goods; and
(iii)      the equivalent of forty per cent (40%) of such amounts as shall
have been expended for civil works, which percentage represents
the estimated foreign exchange component of such services;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of an Investment
Project unless (A) the sub-loan or investment for such Investment Project shall have
been approved by the Bank, or (B) the sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of (i) $500,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the
Development Credit Agreement for such Investment Project or (ii) $15,000,000
equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject
to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment


﻿6
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, or in respect
of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made (i) more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
sub-loan or investment the application and information required by Section 2.03(b)
of the Project Agreement, or (ii) under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03(c) of the
Project Agreement; provided however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing
ninety-day requirement, withdrawals aggregating the equivalent of tIp to $3,000,000
may be made by BAPINDO for expenditures made on or after July 1, 1974 in
respect of sub-loans or investments for which applications or requests for approval,
as required by Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement, shall have been made on
or before the Effective Date.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section  2.06. The   Borrower  shall pay   interest at the  rate  of
eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May I and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments referred to in Section 2.03(d)
of the Project Agreement, which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals
from the Loan Account under Section 2.03 of this Agreement and (ii) take into
account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and
any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this Agreement;
provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made on May 1 and November 1
in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to
the table of premiums on prepayments and redemption, if necessary.


﻿7
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)  If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to BAPINDO in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by BAPINDO,
the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08
of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b)  Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or dispused of, and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid
on account of such investment.
(c)  Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist BAPINDO in financing
such productive facilities and resources in the territories of the Borrower as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists in the financing of specific development projects through loans to and
investments in enterprises in the territories of the Borrower, in furtherance of the
corporate purposes of BAPINDO.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
BAPINDO under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BAPINDO, under terms and conditio.s which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
(b)  The Burrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the


﻿8
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions or any of its agencies or instrumentalities or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by BAPINDO of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part in
order to enable BAPINDO to perform such obligations.
Section 4.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the. benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity


﻿9
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BAPINDO having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable,
(b)   the BAPINDO Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the Bank, to affect materially and
adversely the carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial condition
of BAPINDO or the efficiency of BAPINDO's management or personnel;
(c)   BAPINDO shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BAPINDO or by others whereby
any of the property of BAPINDO shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BAPINDO or for the
suspension of all or part of BAPINDO's operations;
(e)   a default shall occur in [he performance of any obligation of BAPINDO
under the Project Agreement;
(f)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by BAPINDO, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of BAPINDO's business or BAPINDO's financial
situation or the efficiency of BAPINDO's management and personnel or the carrying
out of the Project;
(g)   A default shall have occurred under the Development Credit Agreement
other than in respect of the payment of the principal or any other payment required
thereunder; and


﻿10
(h)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BAPINDO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by, the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (g) of Section
5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BAPINDO have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   the Borrower and BAPINDO have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BAPINDO and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of BAPINDO in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BAPINDO


﻿11
and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and BAPINDO in
accordance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date January 20, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI!
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. Subject  the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INTBAFRAD                               440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)**
May 1, 1978                                               890,000
November 1, 1978                                          925,000
May 1, 1979                                               965,000
November 1, 1979                                        1,005,000
May 1, 1980                                             1,045,000
November 1, 1980                                        1,085,000
May 1, 1981                                             1,130,000
November 1, 1981                                        1,175,000
May 1, 1982                                             1,220,000
November 1, 1982                                        1,270,000
May 1, 1983                                             1,320,000
November 1, 1983                                        1,370,000
May 1, 1984                                             1,425,000
November 1, 1984                                        1,485,090
May 1, 1985                                             1,545,000
November 1, 1985                                        1,605,000
May 1, 1986                                             1,670,000
November 1, 1986                                        1,735,000
May 1, 1987                                             1,805,000
November 1, 1987                                        1,880,000
iMay 1. 1988                                            1,955,000
November 1, 1988                                        2,030,000
May 1, 1989                                             2,1 15,000
November 1, 1989                                        2,195,000
May 1, 1990                                             2,285,000
November 1, 1990                                        2,375,000
May 1, 1991                                             2,470,000
November 1, 1991                                        2,570,000
May 1, 1992                                             2,675,000
November 1, 1992                                        2,780,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent tollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿14
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of' Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                              2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 3-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                           5-3/4%
More than fourteen years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                              7%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                                    8%


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(2)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from  the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account,
as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.
Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall
be cancelled."


