- o =t r z  A-k    7 o;
^jX  -A   ::      __I-t
I                                                   .tf:.    ~ :~
Ka OMFAL t= OPLYo.
A'~~~~~~~~~t~W
_J~_; 
* ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~           _.
-IRA~~~~~~A
'''         VINCUL ~DEVUt3T PcrC
UovER 21, 190
Iafrastructure A"d Ioery Opert tom  DtV%siou
Country Department IV
Latin A.wica and the arILbbean lgion
I Th aul aj~d                     miumy be Eind byr.~.h p h S
LtAk  _C   ricL 'lb COMIO  a" UN SMbl *'  om. IN   w,,



CurXenc   nt-Auta  A
November 12. 1990         -R US DolR ar                         h   a
Fre. Market Rate                     US$ 1                         5,375
FiscalYear
January 1 - Decesber 31
Weights n Measuras
Metric System
Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronys
cEU         Project Central Execution Unit
CFI         Federal Investment Council
(Consojo Federal de Inversiones)
FAIP        Financial Action and Investment Plan
FEDEI       Special Fund for Electrification of the Interior
(Fondo Especial para Elotrificacion del Interior)
FIkL        Foundation for Latin American Economic Studies
(Fundacion de Investigaciones Economicas Latinoamericanas)
FNIS        Financial Management Information Systea
FONAVI      National Housing Fund
(Fondo Nacional de la Vivionda)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GPP         Gross Provincial Product
MBDEC       National Institute of Statistics and Censuses
(Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos)
INF         International Monetary Fund
PEU         Provincial Project Execution Unit
PBS         Provincial Planning and Budgeting System
NFS         Provincial Governrent Finance Study
POK         Provincial Project Operations Manual
RSS         Revenue Sharing System
SCAT        Undor Secretary for Administrative and Technical Coordination,
Kinistry of Economy (Central Govenuent)
(Subsecretaria de Cordinacion Administrative y Tecnica)
TFFD        Transitional Fund for Fiscal Disequilibria



- i -                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
HI THE SECTOR..1
I.   TH    EC O     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    i    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Importance of the Provincial Public Sector. . . . . . . . . . .  1
The Spatial Distribution of Population, Product and Poverty . .    2
Government Structure for the Provision of Public Services . . .    2
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Sector Development Issues and Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Sector Lending Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement. . .    6
II. THE PROJECT.                                                       8
Project  Origin   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
Project  Objectives   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
Project  Description.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
Project Costs and Allocation among Beneficiaries . . . . . . . .  10
Expenditures Eligible for Financing under the Project. . . . . .  14
Financing Plan ......... .           .............    15
Implementation Arrangements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Procurement.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Disbursement ......... .            .............                23
Accounts and Audits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Financial Impact ........ .           .............    25
Economic Impact and Analysis ......   . ..........  .   25
Social   Impact.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Environmental Impact ........ . .............   25
Project Risks and Safeguards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
III.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . .  27
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited
Argentina August 16-24, 1990. The mission comprised Messrs. James Hicks
(Mission Leader, LATIE) and Lubomir Ficinski (Consultant). Messrs. Malcolm
Rowat (LA4DR), and Eduardo Abbott (LEGLA) joined the mission during parts of
its duration. Mr. David Vetter (LA4IE) also contributed substantial inputs to
this report, based on his participation in previous missions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                      Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:   Spatial Distribution of Pooulation- Product and Poverty. .  29
ANNEX 2:   Recent Evolution of the Provincial/National
Revenue Sharing System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
ANNEX 3:   Provincial Government Finance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
ANNEX 4:   Financial Action and Investment Plans (FAIP) . . . . . . .  52
ANNEX 5:   Assessment of the Financial Impact of the
Proiect and the Debt Canacity of the Provinces . . .  54
ANNEX 6:   Detailed Description of Project Components . . . . . . . .  60
ANNEX 7:   Project Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
ANNEX 8:   Proiect Economic and Social Impact . . . . . . . . . . . .  68
ANNEX 9:   Assessment of Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . .  72
ANNEX 10:  Proiect Operations Manual. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
ANNEX 11:  Orpanization and ResRonsibilities of the
Central and Provincial Executing Units . . . . . . .  76
ANNEX 12:  Supervision Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  81
ANNEX 13   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . .  82
ANNEX 14:  Selected Documents in Project File . . . . . . . . . . . .  85
MAP        IBRD 20450



v iii -
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Argentine Republic.
Implementing
Agencies:         Ministry of Economy of the Central Government, the 23
Provinces, and the Municipality of Buenos Aires.
Amount:           US$ 200.0 million.
Terms:            Repayment in 17 years including five years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relendine Terms:  Except for approximately one percent of the loan that would
finance institutional development in the national Ministry
of Economy, all proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to
part3cipating provinces, with each province's revenue
sharing serving as a guarantee for repayment of subsidiary
loans. For onlending to provinces, the Ministry of Economy
would enter into a Financial Agency Agreement with an
appropriate financial institution (Financial Agent),
satisfactory to the Bank. The terms and conditions of
subsidiary loans would be established in Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between the Government and each participating
province. These terms and conditions would be essentially
the same as the Bank loan, including the foreign exchange
risk, as well as the costs of (a) the Financial Agent and
(b) the Central Execution Unit's expenditures financed under
the project, in order to ensure that provincial project
components would not result in a fiscal burden for the
Central Government.
Proiect
Obiectives and
Description:      The Government has agreed with and endorsed the conclusions
and recommendations of the Bank's sector report, "Argentina:
Provincial Government Finance Study", including the proposed
strategy for provincial fiscal reform and improved
expenditure efficiency. Thus, the project's overall
obiective would be to provide financial support and
incentives for provinces to undertake their own adjustment
programs (own-source revenue enhancement and expenditure
control) consistent with the national adjustment program.
This would be achieved through providing Bank financing only
to provinces that meet strict financial performance and
other eligibility criteria. The proposed operation would
finance civil works, goods and consultants necessary to
implement Provincial Financial Action and Investment Plans,



- iv -
to be proposed by provinces and approved by the Central
Government's Ministry of Economy anc the Bank, based on
financial and other provincial eligibility criteria designed
to implement the project's objectives. Thus, the project
would finance a "time-slice' of eligible provincial
expenditures, and its components would be: (a) It.stitutional.
Development, (about 10 percent of total project costs)
including technical assistance, training and equipment to
attain the project's objectives at both the Central and
Provincial Government levels; (b) Project Administration,
(about 9 percent of total project costs) for the recurrent
costs of project implementation at the national and
provincial levels; and (c) Physical Investments, (about 81
percent of total projec. costs) encompassing public
infrastructure (e.g., roads, bridges, drainage, water supply
and sanitation) and facilities (e.g., schools, health posts,
bus terminals). These investments would include maintenance
programs, rehabilitation of existing works, completion of
unfinished works, and new investments.  Access by provinces
to financing of physical investments would be conditioned to
provincial financial performance and verification that the
investments are economically efficient, financially
sustainable, institutionally manageable, and environmentally
sound. It is estimated that maintenance and rehabilitation
would be by far the largest part financed by this component.
Benefits:         There are three main benefit areas: (a) fiscal, as the
project wo'tld provide incentives to improved provincial
financial performance, thus contributing to the national
adjustment program's objective of reducing the public sector
deficit; (b) institutional, with improved capacity of
provinces to plan, program, implement and monitor
efficiently resource mobilization and allocation; and socio-
economic, with improved infrastructure and service delivery,
as well as the creation of about 110,000 person years of
low-skilled construction employment, especially important
during the difficult adjustment period.
Risks and
Safeguards:       The main project implementation risks are: (a) lack of
initial interest of the provinces in doing the fiscal
reforms required; (b) discontinuity in political commitment
to the project; and (c) unfavorable macroeconomic conditions
during its execution. The project has a built-in mechanism
for managing these risks in that it allocates resources
based on performance. Those provinces which enter earlier
and perform better (i.e., develop the institutions, generate
current account surpluses and adapt to the macroeconomic
environment) would receive more resources under the project.



Estimated Project Costs:
(in USS millions of December 1990)
F.E.C. as       % of
Comnonet                    Local   Foreign   Total   3 of Total  Total Costs
I. Institutional Development
A. Central Government
1. Consultants           4.0       1.0       5.0      20.0           0.9
2. Goods                 0.2       0.3       1.0      80.0           0.1
B. Provinces
1. Consultants          27.9       3.1     31.0       10.0           5.4
2. Goods                 4.6      18.4     23.0       80.0           4.0
Sub-Total I.               36.7      23.3      60.0       38.8          10.4
II. Physical Investments
A. Infrastructure
1. Maintenance          28.6      28.6       57.2      50.0          9.9
2. Rehabilitation      107.2    107.1       214.3      50.0         38.2
3. Completion           14.3       9.5       23.8      40.0          4.1
4. New Works            31.4      21.0       52.4      40.0          9.1
Sub-Total II.A.           181.5    166.2       347.7      47.8         61.3
B. Facilities
1. Maintenance           9.5       9.6       19.1      50.0          3.3
2. Rehabilitation       35.7      35.8       71.5      50.0         12.5
3. Completion            4.6       3.0        7.6      40.0          1.3
4. New Works           -11.5       7.6       19.1      40.0          3.3
Sub-Total II.B             61.3      56.0      117.3      47.7         20.4
Sub-Total II.             242.8    222.2       465.0      47.8         80.9
III. Project Administra.    50.0         -         50.0        -            8.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST           329       245.5      575.0       43.1        100.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD              77.2    122.8      200.0        69.1        35.0
IDB               77.3    122.7      200.0        69.1        35.0
Provinces       175.0       0.0      175.0         0.0        30.0
Estimated Disbursements:
(Bank Fiscal Years)
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Annual          12.0    28.0    56.0    54.0    33.0    14.0        3.0
Cumulative      12.0    40.0    96.0   150.0   183.0   197.0   200.0
Economic Rate of Return:   At least 12 percent.



I. THE SECTOR
The Imnortance of the Provincial Public Sector
1.01         Reducing the public sector deficit is of fundamental importance
for success of Argentina's medium-term adjustment program, and to address the
underlying structural problems and sources of instability in its economy.
There have been three major sources of this dpficit: (a) the Central
Government itself, including the official banking and finance entities, as
well as social security; (b) the public sector enterprises; and (c) the
provincial governments.
1.02        As shown in the Provincial Government Finance Study (Report No.
8176, distributed to the Board on April 16, 1990), the provinces have been
responsible for the largest and fastest growing portion of this deficit.
While provincial expenditures rose rapidly over the 1970-86 period, reaching
over 11.2 percent of GDP in 1986, total own-source provincial revenues
actually dropped from a high of 5.6 percent of GDP in 1980 to only 5.0 percent
of CDP in 1986. For example, the total fiscal deficit of the provinces in
1986 before transfers from the central government was 6.2 percent of GDP
(about US$4 billion), much higher than the public sector enterprises and
social security combined. After transfers, the provinces showed a slight
fiscal surplus, but at the expense of helping transform the national
administration's before transfer surplus of 5.4 percent of GDP into a fiscal
deficit of 4.6 percent of GDP after transfers.
1.03        Data from case studies of six provinces show that their combined
fiscal deficit more than doubled in 1987 to US$1.1 billion (1.8 percent of
GDP) after transfers, as own-source revenues declined and expenditures,
especially for salaries, continued to rise. For all 23 provinces and the
Municipality of Buenos Aires, the total fiscal deficit in 1987 after transfers
was estimated at over US$2.8 billion or about 4 percent of GDP. The decline
in own-source revenues stems partly from the rise of inflation and the
resulting Olivera-Tanzi effect, but also from the increasing inefficiency of
the provinces in collecting taxes, as well as the reticence of taxpayers to
pay taxes and fees for services of ever deteriorating quality.
1.04        Besides controlling the fiscal deficit, provincial governments are
important in efforts to improve the efficiency and equity of Argentina's
public sector, as they are increasingly important providers of public
services, especially of health and education. Expenditures of Argentina's
provincial governments in 1986 amounted to 11.2 percent of GDP (or US$7.8
billion). Investments accounted for US$1.6 billion in 1986 (2.6 percent of
GDP) of these provincial expenditures, slightly more thari the total
investments of all public enterprises and about 60 percent more than the
central government's investments (including all of its decentralized entities
and special accounts). The new Government's strategy of decentralization
should substantially increase this importance.
1.05        Despite its fundamental importance to macroeconomic policy
formulation and implementation, provincial public finance has not received the
attention that its importance in national fiscal policy requires. This is
partly because the provinces are difficult and costly to study, in that they
are numerous (22), institutionally complex, extremely heterogeneous, and



-2-
spatially dispersed. Furthermore, there have been serious gaps in adequate,
up-to-date data on provincial government finance.
1.06        It is clear that provincial goverDnments cannot be ignored in the
national effozt to reduce the public sector's fiscal deficit and to improve
its efficiency and equity. At both the national and provincial levels, there
is a broad governmental awareness of the need for fiscal reform and increased
provincial financial autonomy.
The Spatial Distribution of Ponulation. Product and Povertv
1.07        Although spatial concentration of both population and product in
Argentina remains high in the four largest provinces (Buenos Aires, Cordoba,
Mendoza and Santa Fe) and the Municipality of Buenos Aires, the rates of
growth during tne 1970s tended to be higher in the other provinces, especially
those with rich endowments of petroleum, natural gas and mineral deposits
(i.e. the "resource frontier"). For example, the Gross Provincial Product
(GPP) of the Province of Neuquen grew at a annual rate of 11.6 percent during
the 1970s. Although the general economic malaise of the 1980s retarded both
growth and spatial decentralization of economic activities and population, the
total concentration of GPP in these largest provinces and the Federal Capital
dropped from 82.5 percent in 1970 to 78.4 percent in 1985. For population,
the drop was less dramatic, but still important: 72.4 percent in 1970 versus
70.4 percent in 1985 (for details, see Annex 1).
1.08        Although the percentage of households with unsatisfied basic needs
is higher in the provinces with smaller populations and lower per capita
products, such as Formosa (47 percent) and Santiago del Estero (49 percent),
over half of the total number of poor households lived in the three largest
provinces (Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and Cordoba).
1.09        The extreme diversity of the provinces of Argentina in terms of
population, product and poverty can be seen by comparing the provinces of
largest and smallest population size: Buenos Aires and Santa Cruz. The
population of the Province of Buenos Aires (12.9 million in 1985) is about
equal to that of Chile, living in an area about the size of Italy. The
economic product of this province is about twice that of Ecuador. On the other
hand, the 134,000 inhabitants of Santa Cruz live in an area the size of the
United Kingdom, giving the province a demographic density of only a half a
person per square kilometer. However, due to its very high endowments of
natural resources, the per capita product of Santa Cruz (US$2,972) was nearly
twice that of Buenos Aires (US$1,657) in 1985. The percentages of households
with unsatisfied basic needs is about the same for both provinces (about 20
percent), but the absolute number in Buenos Aires was about 100 times greater.
Government Structure for the Provision of Public Services
1.10        The Argentine State is organized in three political-administrative
and territorial jurisdictions: the central, provincial and municipal levels.
Within this federal organization, all governmental powers formally emanate
from the provinces. Formally, provinces delegate limited powers to the
Central Government and retain for themselves all other authority. Provinces



- 3 -
are autonomous entities governed by their owm Constitutions. Municipalities
are organized as part of each province's system of government.
1.11        The Central Government is empowered to meet the main general needs
of the Argentine society and to provide for the common interest of the
different territorial subdivisions. There are also "concurrent powers"
entrusted by the Constitution to both the Central Government and the
Provinces, and even to municipalities by provincial delegation. Because of
the diversity of Provincial Constitutions, and a historically strong
interpretation of the Central Government's authority in practice, there is a
great deal of diversity among the provinces with regard to service delivery
authority and responsibility.   In general, however, responsibilities for
service provision may be illustrated as follows: exclusively Central
Government -- defense, foreign affairs, inter-province transportation and
trade regul.cion, mail and telecommunications; Central and Provincial
Governments -- higher education, preventive health, justice, security,
economic development, major passenger and cargo terminals, housing, electric
and gas energy; Provincial and Municipal Governments -- elementary and
secondary education, primary health care, water and sewerage, regional and
local roads, fire control; and predominately Municipal Governments -- solid
waste collection and disposal, local streets and drainage, parks, markets,
cemeteries and land use planning and control. Recently, some of the larger
provinces have begun to delegate more of their responsibilities to
municipalities.
1.12        As provided in the National Constitution, the Certral Government
has the following sources of revenues: (a) resources allocated to it
exclusively and on a permanent basis (taxes on foreign trade and profits from
the postal service); (b) resources allocated permanently in conjunction with
the Provinces (domestic taxes); and (c) resources allocated temporarily and on
a shared basis with the Provinces (direct taxes in cases of national
emergency). Categories (b) and (c) have contributed approximately 80 percent
of total Central Government tax revenues, and have formed the basis for the
Central/Provincial Governments' revenue sharing system. The most important
provincial revenues are the turnover tax (gross sales tax), real estate tax,
vehicle tax and transfer tax ("sellos"), as well as the revenue transfers
received from the Central Government, as described below (see Annexes 2 and 3
for details).
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1.13        Argentina's system of fiscal federalism has evolved through many
years of conflict between the Central Government and the provinces (Annex 2).
The revenue sharing system has evolved within this context, reaching a
benchmark with the enactment of the previous revenue sharing law of 1973 (Ley
20.221), which gave the provinces considerably more resources than they had
received in the past, with distribution among the provinces determined by
criteria defined in the law.  With the enactment of this law, revenue sharing
as a percent of total provincial revenues rose from 39 percent in 1971-72 to
approximately 47 percent in the 1975-76 period. Provincial tax effort dropped
initially in response to this influx of resources from the Central Government,
but then began to recuperate.



- 4 -
1.14        With this transfer of resources came the idea of transferring
public service delivery responsibilities from  he Central Government to the
provinces. In 1978, primary education was transferred to some provinces, as
were medium-size hospitals. In 1980-82, primary education for adults, water,
irrigation, electricity and some national hospitals were also transferred to
the provinces. In 1989, secondary schooling became a provincial
responsibility. These transfers of responsibility were normally not preceded
by studies of the fiscal implicatior7 for the provinces, let alone plans for
assuring that adequate resources were available to provide the decentralized
services.
1.15        The formal revenue sharing system was interrupted from the end of
1984, when the previous revenue sharing law expired, until January 1988, when
the current law was implemented. From 1985-87, a series of ad hoc agreements
substituted the revenue sharing law.
1.16        The prevailirg revenue sharing law (passed in 1987 and made
effective in January 1988) represents an important step towards more
responsible federalism in Argentina in the sense that it makes total transfers
to the provii,ces more transparent and predictable. In the period before this
law, a chief means of transfers to the provinces were Discretionary Grants
(Aportes del Tesoro Nacional). These grants generally rewarded fiscal
irresponsibility, as those provinces which ran up high fiscal deficits tended
to get more resources from the Central Government in the form of discretionary
grants.
1.17         The present revenue sharing law has changed the "rules of the
game" regarding fiscal transfers. Discretionary grants are limited to only
one percent of total shared taxes, and the percentage of the total revenues
from shared taxes going to the provinces as a whole (i.e., primary
distribution), and also the percentages going to each province (i.e.,
secondary distribution) are fixed by the law. Hence, the only variable left
in the revenue sharing system is total shared tax revenues; the other
parameters used in the system are legally fixed constants. In the primary
distribution, the percentage of total shared taxes going to the provinces rose
from 48.5 percent to 57.76 percent under the new law. Furthermore, shared
taxes are to be deposited, within 48 to 72 hours of their collection, directly
into the accounts of the provinces in the Banco de la Nacion Argentina in
accord with the percentages used in secondary distribution.
1.18        Any additional transfers to provinces must now be approved by
Congress. This makes the revenue sharing system transparent and raises the
political cost to Provinces of requesting financial assistance of the Central
Government. The law is valid for two years, but under its provisions, the law
will be extended automatically until a new one is adopted. As passage of
revenue sharing laws has been difficult in Argentina, the current law could
well stay in effect for some time to come.
1.19        The criteria used in dividing the total revenues of shared taxes
among the provinces are weighted against the provinces with largest
populations (i.e., Cordoba, Santa Fe and especially Buenos Aires), given that
the main objective is territorial redistribution. For example, the province



of Buenos Aires received enly 46 percent of what it would have received if
revenue were shared according to population, while Catamarca received over
three times what it would have received on the basis of its population.
Although the criteria promote territorial redistribution, they tend to
transfer resources away from areas with the greatest numbers of poor families
(e.g., Buenos Aires, Cordoba and Santa Fe).
1 20        Although well designed to meet its objective of providing a
transparent and more predictable transfer of funds to the provinces,
implementation of the new revenue sharing law has been plagued by two main
problems: (a) shortfalls in the total resources transferred due to a decline
in the collection of shared taxes and (b) the continued rise of the fiscal
deficits of the provinces. The former has resulted essentially from problems
cf national -ax administration and macroeconomic instability; the latter from
provincial financial mismanagement.
1.21        Although the new revenue sharing law reduced uncertainty by
legally deiining both primary and secondary distribution, the sole remaining
variable (the collection of shared taxes) turned out to be quite unstable,
resulting in a significant shortfall during both 1988 and 1989. Although a
number of laws have been passed to compensate for the revenue shortfall, all
have been tied to tax incrc-.ses and have defined strict criteria for secondary
distribution (see Annex 2). Thus, improving inter-governmental fiscal
relations can complement adequate macroeconomic policy at the national level
by helping to reduce the consolidated fiscal deficit of the provincial public
sector, but it is obviously no substitute for it.
1.22        The Government is committed both to improving further
intergovernmental fiscal rel.ations, as well as to inducing the provinces to
increase their own fiscal effort and to improve their expenditure efficiency.
In September of 1989, the national Ministry of Economy encouraged the
provincial Ministers of Economy to institute a Forum of Ministers in which
they would discuss their problems among themselves and with national
authorities. In recent legislation proposed by the Ministry of Economy and
approved by Congress, the Ministry will monitor the performance of provinces
receiving assistance for fiscal disequilibria and use criteria for allocation
of this assistance among provinces that provide incentives for these provinces
to develop and implement plans to reduce their fiscal deficits (see para.
2.03).
Sector Development Issues and Obiectives
1.23        To be successful, a policy for provincial fiscal reform and
improved expenditure efficiency must encompass two dimensions: national and
sub-national.
(a)   At the national level, there must be in place a system of
intergovernmental transfers that are predictable,
transparent, financially sustainable, and that provide
incentives to provincial fiscal autonomy. Further, the
provision of credit to provincial banks by the Central Bank
must continue to be rigorously controlled.



- 6 -
(b)   The sub-national level of the strategy must include the
entlre sub-national public sector, not only provincial
central administrations, but also their indirect
administrations, including public enterprises, as well as
direct and indirect municipal government administrations. A
broad approach to the entire sub-national public sector is
necessary because in Argentina's federal system, fiscal
reform is only as strong as the weakest link in the system.
National public sector deficit reduction efforts will fail
if provincial government finances are not sound, and these,
in turn, will not be sound if provincial enterprises and/or
municipalities generate deficits that demand provincial
'bail-outs" that eventually work their way up to the Central
Bank or the National Secretary of Finance.
Sector Lending Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.24        Given the objectives and scope described above, the proposed
design criteria and actions required for the lending strategy are summarized
below.
1.25        The criteria for design of the strategy may be grouped in two
broad categories: intergovernmental transfers and provincial financial
management.  Implementation of an improved system of intergovernmental
transfers is the responsibility primarily of the Central Government, while
responsibility for improved provincial financial management rests with the
provinces, although the Central Government may provide valuable assistance to
them. A fundamental Drerequisite for success in formulating and implementing
a strategy for provincial fiscal reform and improved expenditure efficiency is
a transparent (sanctioned through legislation and implemented through the
budgetary process) and disciplined process for access to credit by the sub-
national public sector. This requires that the Central Bank maintain strict
controls on rediscounts by provincial banks, thereby not allowing its funds to
be used by provincial banks to finance irresponsibly their provincial
government deficits. Furthermore, prudential regulation is required in many
provinces in order to have adequate discipline and control over the provincial
banks' operations. Without these disciplinary measures, the strategy will be
doomed to failure.'
1.26        The system for the transfer of revenues from the Central to
Provincial Governments should be based predominantly on a revenue sharing
system that is legally mandated and formula-driven. This is based on the
normative position that a revenue sharing system should provide sufficient
revenues to provinces so that, when combined with a reasonable revenue effort
by the provincial governments, these may at least adequately operate and
maintain their existing services. The overall system of intergovernmental
1      For a discussion of the reforms recommended for the Central Bank,
and for the financial system in general, see The World Bank, Argentina:
Reforms for Price Stability and Growth, World Bank Country Study, 1990,
Chapter IV.



transfers should provide, therefore, not only a reliable source of revenues to
provinces, but also strong incentives to improved provincial revenue
performance. Discretionary grants should form a small part of resources
flowing from the Central to Provincial Governments, basically limited to
providing support in emergencies such as flooding. New provincial investments
should be financed by provincial savings in current account and by responsible
borrowing. Given this normative framework, the strategy for provincial fiscal
reform should include an intergovernmental transfer system that: (a) is
predictable; (b) is transparent; (c) provides transfers in sustainable and
equitable quantities; and (d) provides incentives to provincial fiscal
autonomy.
1.27        Within the national framework described above, the strategy
requires that provincial governments adopt financial management practices that
promote: (a) provincial financial autonomy; (b) management efficiency; (c)
public accountability; and (d) expenditures that support sustainable economic
development.
1.28        The Government has requested broad Bank support for implementation
of its adjustment program, including assistance for reforms of the national
public sector as a whole, including national public enterprises (to address
the first two deficit sources noted in para. 1.01), and the proposed
Provincial Development Project (third source). Thus, the proposed project
would be a key element of international assistance to support the Government's
adjustment program. As part of this support, the proposed Bank loan would
substitute for the inflation tax, given the short-term provincial investment
and financing needs (see Annexes 3 and 5). This is because provincial
governments have no access to alternative foreign or domestic credit (save for
arrears to domestic suppliers and contractors) other than provincial banks,
whose deficits until 1988 were routinely covered by the Central Bank, but
which currently are under tighter Central Bank control. As inflation falls to
desirable levels, increased availability of foreign resources could permit
additions to planned investment up to the full foreign amount without adding
to inflationary pressure.
1.29        The proposed project also should be understood to be the first
stage of a longer term strategy for adjustment in the financial relationships
between the Central and Provincial Governments.  It would assist the
Government in moving from having a substantial proportion of provincial
investments financed with national resources resulting in excessive fiscal and
quasi-fiscal deficits to the financing of provincial investments with
provincial savings and official borrowing under the proposed project.
However, as (a) the economy stabilizes and resumes growth, (b) the financial
sector is strengthened, and (c) provincial financial management is improved,
the strategy seeks at its final stage to have provincial investments entirely
financed with provincial savings and competitive borrowing through the
financial sector.



-8-
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
2.01        The proposed project builds on the operational experience gained
through partial implementation of the Argentina: Municipal Development Project
(Loan No. 2920-AR, approved by the Board on March 22, 1988), as well as the
sector work resulting in the "Argentina: Provincial Government Finance Study"
(PGFS, Report No. 8176-AR, distributed to the Board on April 16, 1990).
Project preparation has benefitted from Project Preparation Facility Advances
approved January 4, 1990 (P-145-AR) and September 27, 1990 (P-161-AR).
2.02        The Municipal Development Project became effective March 3, 1989,
and as of September 30, 1990, US$ 5.0 million of the total loan of US$ 120.0
million had been disbursed. Disbursements have been severely hindered by the
periods of hyperinflation (mid 1989 and early 1990) when practically all LCB
procurement was halted. Despite this difficulty, however, political and
institutional commitment to the project (with fiscal discipline objectives
similar to the proposed project) has remained high. The last supervision
mission for this project (August 1990) indicates that the project's successful
implementation will accelerate as progress toward price stabilization is
achieved and maintained. For example, the 1990 Investment Plans approved by
the Bank for the participating provinces (Buenos Aires, Cordoba, La Pampa,
Neuquen and Santa Fe) provide for 221 sub-projects with about US$ 40 million
total costs. By mid-1990, about 77 sub-projects, representing approximately
US$ 18 million in total costs, had been completed, were being executed or were
at an advanced stage of the procurement process.
2.03        As for the PGFS, it was delivered to the Government in November
1989, and its conclusions and recommendations have been endorsed fully by the
Government (including authorization of publication as a Red Cover Report).
The Government has taken concrete measures to implement the report's
recommendations, including substantial progress in implementing the Provincial
Financial Management Information System (FMIS) and through modification of the
criteria for allocation among provinces of the proceeds of the "Transitional
Fund for Fiscal Disequilibria", enacted in 1988 to assist provinces in
adapting to the new revenue sharing law during a period of high inflation and
shortfalls in projected shared national revenues (Oliveira-Tanzi effect).
With legal modifications introduced in 1990, allocation among provinces of the
Fund's proceeds has been brought in line with the PGFS's recommendations.
Currently, the Ministry of Economy monitors, through the FMIS, implementation
of deficit reductions in each province targeted for assistance through the
Fund on a quarterly basis, and if progress is not satisfactory, the province
loses its Fund allocation, which is then distributed among all other provinces
according to the shares in secondary revenue sharing (for details, see Annex
2). In summary, the Government already is implementing strong measures
consistent with recommendations of the PGFS and the objectives of the proposed
project. Ministry of Economy officials emphasize, however, that international
assistance is vital to broaden these reforms. speed their implementation, and
to support adeguate intergovernmental coordination in implementation of
macroeconomic policies.



-9-
Proiect Obiectives
2.04        The overall objective would be to provide financial support and
incentives for provincas to undertake their own adjustment programs (own-
source revenue enhancement and expenditure control) consistent with the
national adjustment program. This would be achieved through providing Bank
financing only to provinces that meet strict financial performance and other
eligibility criteria (see paras. 2.10-2.12). Specific project objectives are
to:
(a)     implement appropriate financial management reforms that will
transform provincial governments from generators of excessive
public sector deficits to generators of surpluses that may finance
public infrastructure and services necessary to promote economic
development;
(b)     strengthen provincial governments' capacity to plan, program,
finance, execute and monitor expenditure programs that are
economically efficient, financially sustainable, institutionally
manageable, and environmentally sound; and
(c)     provide financing for institutional development and physical
investments that are consistent with the national adjustment
program and that will promote economic development.
Project Description
2.05        The proposed operation would finance civil works, goods and
consultants necessary to implement Provincial Financial Action and Investment
Plans (see para. 2.10), to be proposed by provinces and approved by the
Central Government's Ministry of Economy and the Bank. Thus, the project
would finance a "time-slice" of eligible provincial expenditures, and its
components would be detailed during project implementation. However, a
profile of expected components, based on past and projected provincial
investment expenditures, is presented in Annex 6.
2.06        The project would have two main components:
(a)     Institutional Development, (about 10 percent of total project
costs) including technical assistance, training and equipment to
attain the project's objectives at both the Central and Provincial
Government levels. Training and technical assistance would focus
on such areas as the creation or improvement of: maintenance
planning and administration; information systems; planning and
budgeting systems; general organization and management; inventory
controls; improvement of cadastres and billing systems; revision
of legislation; personnel policy; and project preparation and
evaluation, including analysis of environmental impacts.
(b)     Physical investments, (about 81 percent of total project costs)
encompassing public infrastructure (e.g., roads, bridges,
drainage, water supply and sanitation) and facilities (e.g.,



- 10 -
schools, health posts, bus terminals). These investments would
include maintenance programs, rehabilitation of existing works,
completion of unfinished works, and new investments. It is
estimated that maintenance and rehabilitation would be by far the
largest part financed by this component.
(c)     Proiect Administration, (about 9 percent of the total project
costs) for the recurrent costs of project implementation at the
national and provincial levels.
Project Costs and Allocation among Beneficiaries
2.07        Total project costs are estimated at US$ 575 million equivalent,
excluding land, duties, taxes and interest charges. The proposed Bank loan
would finance 35 percent of these costs, as summarized in Table 1.
Table 1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(in USS millions of December 1990)
F.E.C. as       % of
Comionent 1/                Local   Foreign   l of    T.ofITotal  Total Costs
I. Institutional Development2/
A. Central Government
1. Consultants           4.0       1.0      5.0       20.0           0.9
2. Goods                 0.2      0.8       1.0       80.0           0.1
B. Provinces
1. Consultants          27.9       3.1     31.0       10.0           5.4
2. Goods                 4.6     18.4      23.0       80.0          4.0
Sub-Total I.               36.7      23.3     60.0       38.8          10.4
II. Physical Investments
A. Infrastructure
1. Maintenance          28.6     28.6       57.2       50.0         -9.9
2. Rehabilitation      107.2    107.1      214.3       50.0        38.2
3. Completion           14.3      9.5       23.8       40.0         4.1
4. New Works           31.4       21.0      52.4      40Q.0         9.1
Sub-Total II.A.           181.5    166.2      347.7       47.8         61.3
B. Facilities
1. Maintenance           9.5       9.6      19.1       50.0          3.3
2. Rehabilitation       35.7     35.8       71.5       50.0         12.5
3. Completion            4.6       3.0       7.6       40.0          1.3
4. New Works            11.5       7.6      19.1       40.0          3.3
Sub-Total II.B             61.3      56.0     117.3       47.7         20.4
Sub-Total II.             242.8    222.2      465.0       47.8         80.9
III. Project Administra.    50.0         -        50.0        -            8.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST          329.5      245.5     575.0       43.1        100.0
I/  Because the proposed project would finance a time slice of provincial
investments, these estimates of cost allocation are not precise.
2/ Including US$ 1.5 million for repayments of the PPF Advances.



- 11 -
2.08        Costs are expressed in US dollars because of the instability of
the national currency. For the total project, foreign exchange costs are
estimated at 43.1 percent, with approximately 39 percent for the Institutional
Development Component and 48 percent for physical investments.
2.09        All provinces, tha Municipality of Buenos Aires and the Territory
of Tierra del Fuego (henceforth cited collectively as "provinces") potentially
would be eligible to participate in the project. However, actual access to
project funding would be conditioned to each province meeting project
participation eligibility criteria to be clearly specified in the Project
Operations Manual (POM, see para. 3.02(a) and Annex 10).
2.10        All operational procedures (including provincial financial
performance criteria, expenditures eligible for financing, procurement,
disbursement and audit guidelines) would be specified in the POM, as propo.td
by the CEU, agreed with the Bank and incorporated into the legal documents.
The POM also would provide detailed guidelines to the provinces for
preparation of their Financial Action and Investment Plans (FAIPs). Each
province's FAIP would determine if, and for what purposes, it may participate
in the project. Approval by the CEU and the Bank of a province's FAIP would
be required for any project support to the province.  The FAIP would include,
inter alia, the sub-project's institutional arrangements (including the
Provincial Execution Unit) and a concrete action plan for (a) maintaining a
current account surplus2 or (b) provincial revenue enhancement and/or
expenditure reduction that would result in a current account surplus during
the FAIP implementation period.
2.11        The amount of project financing to be provided to any province
with an approved FAIP would depend on its financial management performance.
The Government's policy is to provide equal, potential access for all
provinces to international assistance. Therefore, the initial, potential
allocation of Bank and IDB loan proceeds would be according to each province's
quota in the secondary distribution of revenue sharing. Table 2 presents this
initial allocation based on provincial executed budgets for 1989. In order to
receive its full quota, a province's FAIP would demonstrate that the province
has met all of the following financial eligibility conditions.
(a)     A current account surplus during the last executed budget period.
(b)     An acceptable plan to consolidate all extra-budget debt in the
formal provincial budget within three years, or except as the Bank
may agree, within a maximum of five years.
(c)     Total existing and proposed provincial debt must not result in a
total debt service (amortization, interest and other financing
charges) obligation greater than 15 percent of total provincial
current revenues.
2      See Annex 3 for the operational definition of the current account
surplus/deficit.



- 12 -
Table 2: INITIAL ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS AMONG PROVINCES
(in USS millions of December 1990)
..... ....... .... ...... .. ...............................................
Revenue
Sharing    Distribution of Bank/lDB Loan
Current      Secondary  Total Loans = USS 400.0 N
Groups of            Account      Distribu.  Quota       Quota      Pool
Provinces         Surplus/Deficit  (x)        (X)       (USSN)     (USSM)
TOTAL                             100.0   72.31        289.2       110.8
ADVANCED
Federal Capital        83.8        2.00     2.00         8.0
Buenos Aires           (3.8)      19.50    9.75         39.0
Cordoba                26.5        9.02     9.02        36.1
Mendoza                21.7        4.24     4.24        16.9
Santa Fe             (181.4)       9.08     4.54        18.2
LOW DENSITY
Chubut                 (2.2)       1.35     0.68         2.7
La Pampa               23.1        1.91     1.91         7.6
Neuquen                57.7        1.51     1.51         6.0
Rio Negro              53.4        2.56     2.56        10.3
Santa Cruz             (5.5)       1.35     0.68         2.7
INTERMEDIATE
Entre Rios             15.5        4.96     4.96        19.8
Salta                 (13.2)       3.89     1.95         7.8
San Juan                4.6        3.43     3.43        13.7
San Luis               22.7        2.32     2.32         9.3
Tucuman                (8.4)       4.83     2.42         9.7
UNDERDEVELOPED
Catamarca             (34.7)       2.80     1.40         5.6
Chaco                   8.4        5.07     5.07        20.3
Corrientes            (11.9)       3.78     1.89         7.6
Formosa               (10.8)       3.70     1.85         7.4
Jujuy                 (45.4)       2.89     1.44         5.8
La Rioja              (25.6)       2.10     1.05         4.2
Nisiones               21.6        3.36     3.36        13.4
Santiago del Estero    21.2        4.20     4.20        16.8
T. del Fuego            0.0        0.20     0.10         0.4
NOTES:    The Federal Capital and Tierra del Fuego currently do not participate in the Revenue
Sharing System. Their percentage shares would be agreed with the Bank prior to signing the Loan
Agreement.



- 13 -
(d)     Negative net variation in short term assets and liabilities must
not exceed 20 percent of total revenues.
2.12        Provinces that meet all of the above conditions would be eligible
for their full initial quotas, while provinces that do not meet these
conditions would be eligible for only half their quotas. For example, based
on the current account status presented in Table 2, Mendoza, with a current
account surplus, could receive its full quota (4.24 percent of the $ 400
million equivalent in loan proceeds). Santa Fe, however, with a deficit,
could receive only half of its potential quota, with the other half going to a
"pool" to be held by the Central Government until provinces fully commit the
resources of their initial quota and then would be eligible to receive
additional loans from the pool on a "first come, first served" basis.
Provinces that did not participate in the initial quota allocation also would
be eligible to receive financing from the pool. However, any province may
receive financing from the Dool only if it meets all of the financial
eligibility conditions above. Based on the 1989 data, about 70 percent of
loan proceeds would be allocated initially on the quota basis, with the
remaining 30 percent allocated to the pool. To provide further incentives to
provincial fiscal performance and project execution, the initial allocation
based on quotas would be valid for only the first two years after signing of
the Loan Agreement, and all uncommitted loan proceeds originally allocated by
quota would be transferred to the pool. In summary, the quota allocation
would provide equal eligibility opportunity for all provinces to have access
to project financing (including the poorer provinces with unsatisfactory
financial performance at the project's beginning), while allocation of the
pool's financing would be based solely on the basis of overall financial and
project implementation performance.
2.13        Continuation of a province's access to project financing would
depend on its financial management performance. For example, if a province
has an approved FAIP and fully meets all of the financial eligibility criteria
of para. 2.11, it may receive project financing (as part of the initial quota
or from the pool). However, if during implementation of sub-projects financed
under the project, a province fails to continue to meet all of these criteria,
then the POM would provide that all uncommitted subsidiary loans for eligible
sub-projects (see para. 2.31) would be cancelled and transferred to the pool.
In the case of a province that does not meet initially all of the financial
eligibility criteria but has an approved FAIP for limited financing under the
project (para. 2.15), the POM would provide that adequate progress in meeting
the targets (as laid out in the FAIP) for improving its financial management
status would be a condition of continued financing under the project; if this
progress is not adequate, then uncommitted subsidiary loans would be cancelled
and transferred to the pool.
2.14        In summary, the allocation of project financing among provinces
would depend on actual provincial financial performance, with the criteria for
judging this performance laid out in the POM, and with the specific measures
to meet these criteria established in approved FAIPs. The proposal of FAIPs
by provinces and their approval by the CEU and the Bank would be a dynamic



- 14 -
process, without a strict, yearly cycle of proposals and approvals.
Especially during the irnitial part of project implementation, it is important
that the CEU be flexible in receiving new FAIP proposals, because the proposed
process would be an innovation in central/provincial relationships. The CEU
would provide intensive support to the provinces in preparing their FAIPs,
especially during the initial period of project implementation and for those
provinces with the most serious financial problems, and the CEU would be
sLructured accordingly (see para. 2.24). Successful implementation of this
process also would require intensive monitoring of provincial performance
(para. 2.32).
Expenditures Eligible for Financing Under the Project
2.15        Provinces with current account surpluses would be eligible for
financing of any investments (maintenance, rehabilitation, completion of works
or new investments) that are part of an approved FAIP and that meet economic,
financial, technical, institutional and environmental appraisal standards as
laid out in the POMI. Provinces with a current account deficit would not be
eligible to receive financing for new investments, and project financing for
maintenance, rehabilitation and completion of unfinished works would be
conditioned strictly to each component's tangible contribution to moving the
province from a current account deficit to a surplus according to financial
performance targets and timetables approved in the FAIP.
2.16        Because of the broad institutional objectives of the project,
flnancing would not be limited to specific sectors. In principle, the project
n'ouid finance any provincial service or infrastructure that is technically
rourd, economically efficient, financially sustainable and environmentally
adeauate. 3 However, to be eligible any expenditure must be part of an
approved FAIP, with justifi.ations and appraisal performed according to the
procedures laid out in the POM (see Annex 10). The POM also would include
clear limitations to eligible provincial services and infrastructure, defined
as those that: (a) the province is legally mandated to provide; (b) are
procured under the authority of the province; and (c) when financed through
user charges or service fees, the province is autonomous to establish such
cbarges or fees.
2.17        In many provinces, reduction or elimination of discretionary
transfers to municipalities with current account deficits would be an
important part of improving their financial performance. In those cases,
provircial technical assistance for municipalities, targeted to eliminate
these deficits and subsequent discretionary transfers, would be eligible for
project financing if part of an acceptable FAIP. However, this technical
3      Excluding, of course, expenditures prohibited by Bank policy, such
as ler.d, taxes, duties, military or para-military goods, public office or
other buildings not directly related to productive purposes.



- 15 -
assistance financed under the proposed operation would not be provided to
municipalities eligible to participate in the ongoing Municipal Development
Project (Loan 2920-AR).
2.18        The Government is implementing a significant decentralization of
the public sector, with increasing transfer of responsibility from the central
to provincial governments, and it has requested Bank support in many sector-
specific areas for which provinces would be the primary executing agencies.
To ensure proper coordination and policy consistency between the proposed
operation and other, sector-specific projects at the provincial levei, the
following were agreed (3.01(j)).
(a)    When there exists an effective, sector-specific project with Bank
financing (e.g., water, health, education, transport) with
uncommitted funds for potentially eligible provinces, then those
provinces would not receive financing for that sector under the
proposed project (ensuring compliance with sectoral policies
agreed by the Ministry of Economy and the Bank).
(b)    All provincial, sector-specific projects would provide financing
only to provinces with FAIPs acceptable to the Ministry of Economy
and the Bank when the sectoral project would require provincial
counterpart financing (including guarantees) of any kind (to
ensure that the fiscal objectives of the proposed project are
sustained).
Financing Plan
2.19        Parallel financing by the World Bank and IDB is proposed, with
each institution providing 35 percent of total project costs. The aggregate
level of external financing (70 percent) is justified because of (a) the need
to provide strong incentives to improve provincial financial management
performance to meet the project's objectives, (b) the strong long-term
institutional development impact the project is expected to promote, and (c)
the absence of alternative, domestic development financing available in
Argentina during this initial stage of implementation of its adjustment
program.
2.20        The financing plan is presented in Table 3.  The Bank loan would
be made at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with repayment in 17
years, including five years of grace.



- 16 -
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN
(in USS millions of December 1990)
Source                  Amount             Percent
IBRD                     200.0               35.0
IDB                      200.0               35.0
Provinces                175.0               30.0
TOTAL                  575.0              100.0
2.21        Cofinancing with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is
proposed. Although cofinancing would be on a parallel basis, the Government
and both tanks have agreed on project objectives and general operational
procedures. The IDB's Executive Directors are expected to consider its
proposed loan at approximately the same time as the Bank's Executive
Directors. If, however, IDB financing is not approved within one year after
the proposed loan is declared effective, the Bank would agree with the
Government to increase the Bank's financial participation up to 60 percent of
total project costs.
Implementation Arrangements
2.22        The borrower would be the Argentine Republic, and its Ministry of
Economy, through the Central Execution Unit (CEU) would be the national
executing agency. The CEU would be responsible for overall project
management, including orientation and assistance to provinces (directly and
through the POM) in preparation of their FAIPs, approval of the FAIPs,
monitoring of FAIP implementation, and all financial and reporting
transactions with the Bank (see Annex 12). The CEU also would implement
directly the Central Government's Institutional Development Component,
including the provincial government Financial Management Information System,
technical assistance to strengthen its performance, and studies to support
improved financial relationships between the Central and Provincial
Governments. Details of the proposed organization, staffing and
responsibilities of the CEU are presented in Annex 11.
2.23        The CEU would be subordinated to the Under Secretary for
Administrative and Technical Coordination (SCAT), and the SCAT's Under
Secretary would be the CEU's General Coordinator. The General Coordinator
would be assisted by an Executive Coordinator fully dedicated to project
implementation. The General Coordinator would inform and discuss all relevant
project aspects with a Consultive Board, which would be the existing Forum of
Ministers (see para. 1.22). The Ministers of this Board would be responsible
for the implementation of the project within each of their provinces through
the Provincial Execution Unit (PEU).
2.24        Besides implementing the Central Government's component of the
project and in order to be able to evaluate, supervise, support and coordinate
the sub-projects of the provinces, the internal structure of the CEU would
reflect the two main steps involved in project implementation: first,
increase revenues and expenditure efficiency; and second, use the resulting
current account surplus for justified investments and to amortize loans. In



- 17 -
other words, the institutional design would reflect the project's two main
objectives: structural reform of the public sector and a sound program of
capital expenditures. The CEU's Institutional Development Program Division
would be responsible for evaluating and supporting Provincial Financial Action
Plans, and the Investment Program Division for evaluating and supporting
provincial investment program. The CEU would include an environmental
professional to monitor and support environmental screening and assessment as
part of the FAIPs. The Financial Management Information System Division,
besides being a permanent body necessary to provide data for provincial and
national fiscal planning, would also monitor provincial progress toward fiscal
autonomy during project implementation. The Administrative Division would
carry out the normal administrative routines of the unit as well as cover the
project's specific administrative requirements for Bank financing (SOEs,
management of the Special Account, etc.).
2.25        Each PEU would be responsible for formulation, implementation, and
supervision of its FAIP. Actual execution of physical investments would be
undertaken by government agencies according to procedures established in the
Project Operations Manual (See Annex 10). As the objectives of the provincial
sub-projects are the same, and to meet adequately the needs of their
implementation, the basic structure of the PEUs would reflect that of the CEU,
even though the political and administrative organization of the provinces
varies greatly.
2.26        The PEU would be subordinated to the provincial minister with a
seat in the Forum of Ministers who would be its General Coordinator. This
would support national and local coordination, spread of innovations and
lessons learned in problem solving, and homogeneity of procedures in project
implementation. The General Coordinator would be assisted by an Executive
Coordinator fully dedicated to FAIP formulation and implementation. The
General Coordinator would inform and discuss all relevant aspects of the FAIP
with a "Consulting Board" in order to achieve the necessary political,
technical and administrative support for the sub-project implementation. The
board would be appointed and presided over by the Governor, who would be
assisted by the General Coordinator. The composition of this Board would vary
in the different provinces due to their different political and administrative
organization, but a typical composition would be ministers, chief executives
of public enterprises and decentralized entities, representatives of the
legislative body (if possible, the President of the Budget Commission) and the
private sector.
2.27        The PEU would perform the following key functions: promotion of
provincial institutional development; proposal, evaluation and monitoring of
financial reforms and investment programs (including environmental screening
and assessment); design and permanent implementation of Financial Management
Information Systems; and administrative control (including Bank reporting
requirements). For the proposed organization and staffing of the PEUs, see
Annex 11.
2.28        Approximately 35 professional and support staff would be required
for the CEU and about 30 total staff for each PEU, or about 700 total PEU
staff.  Thus, about 750 total staff would be dedicated to the core management
; . .



- 18 -
of the project, including preparation and review of FAIPs, supervision of
their implementation and the reporting requirements of the Bank. While this
would be a sizable number, it is not excessive considering the size of the
project (US$ 575 million total cost), national dimension, and the need for up
to 25 executing agencies. Furthermore, as provinces recover and improve their
financial status, permitting total provincial investments to return to levels
of the mid-1980s, the CEU and PEUs would propose and supervise provincial
investment programs on the order of US$ 1.5 billion per year (see Annex 3).
Total project costs provide US$ 50 million for project administration (no Bank
financing). Considering a five year implementation period, this would average
about US$ 13,000 per staff, including salaries, travel and other overhead.
Staff for the CEU and PEUs are expected to be obtained from existing agencies,
and would be supported by consultants financed under the project as needed.
Actual investment execution, operation and maintenance would be undertaken by
provincial line agencies, such as the Ministry of Public Works for transport
investments, while the PEU would ensure that the investments are part of an
approved FAIP implemented in accord with the project's Loan Agreement and the
POM. In summary, staffing of the CEU and PEU is expected to be obtained by
existing personnel, supported by consultants, and the CEU and PEU
responsibilities are expected to be assigned to existing agencies of the
respective Ministries of Economy. Adequate staffing and support to (a) the
CEU would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.02(a)), and (b) the
PEU as a condition of disbursement for any province (para. 3.03(a)).
2.29        There are important distinctions between the CEU and PEUs
regarding their objectives and functions. The PE-Us would have a permanent
function within provincial governments, providing improved planning, budgeting
and supervision of financial management for the provinces as an overall
institution. Therefore, the project would seek to strengthen PEUs as part of
the project's objectives to implement provincial financial management reforms
and to strengthen financial management capacity. Although the CEU would have
some permanent functions (e.g., information system for monitoring provincial
financial management performance), most of the short-term functions of the
CEU's operation would have transitory objectives. The proposed project would
assist the Government in implementing a structural adjustment in the financial
relations between the Central and Provincial Governments. In the past, a
substantial proportion of provincial investments have been financed with
national resources, resulting in excessive fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits
that clearly are not sustainable. The Government seeks to move, over time,
from these destabilizing practices to a policy under which provincial
investments would be financed by provincial current account savings, leveraged
bv provincial borrowings through a competitive, domestic financial sector.
The Government has requested international assistance in financing this
transition. Under the proposed project, the Bank's resources would be onlent
by the Ministry of Economy to provinces, primarily in substitution of the
inflation tax (para. 1.28). Given that provinces essentially have no
alternatives for non-earmarked, long-term financing for development
investmenWs, this medium-term lending function of the Ministry of Economy
would provAde signific4nt incentives for provinces to meet the project's
eligibility criteria and tiLerefore contribute to the Government's mediun-term
stabilization program. However, the role of the Ministry of Economy as a
"financial intermediary" clearly is limited and transitory because this



- 19 -
sustained function would be provided by the financial sector. Therefore, much
of the CEU's role also would be limited and bransitory, in support of a
transitory onlending function. It follows that the CEU should not be fully
staffed by permanent civil servants. Although formal authority and
responsibility for the CE.U must rest with an official of the Ministry of
Economy, it would be cor.sistent with project objectives to have substantial
CEU professional and supl)ort functions performed by consultants financed under
the project. Also, the need for CEU consultants financed under the project
would decrease over time, and eventually eliminated as the transitory role of
"financial intermediary" for the Ministry of Economy is eliminated.
2.30        As a formal manifestation of agreement with the proposed project's
objectives, scope and participation criteria, Development Policy Letters
would be received by the SCAT from at least 13 provincial governments as a
condition of negotiations (para. 3.01(b)). These letters should include:
(a)     the provincial government's agreement with project objectives,
eligibility criteria, and other operational procedures contained
in the draft POM reviewed during the pre-appraisal mission; and
(b)     preliminary components of the province's FAIP including analysis
of its status regarding the project's financial eligibility
criteria (para. 2.11).
The PPF Advances are expected to support the above and other efforts, so that
eligible provinces may have the plans, studies, draft legal agreements, etc.
in place in order to begin project implementation soon after loan
effectiveness.
2.31        Except for approximately one percent of the loan that would
finance institutional development in the national Ministry of Economy, all
proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to participating provinces, with
each province's revenue sharing serving as a guarantee for repayment of
subsidiary loans. For onlending to provinces, the Ministry of Economy would
enter into a Financial Agency Agreement with an appropriate financial
institution (Financial Agent), satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of
effectiveness (para 3.03(c)). The terms and conditions of subsidiary loans
would be established in Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and
each participating province. The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with
at least three Provinces, representing an initial allocation equivalent to not
less than 25 percent of the amount of the Bank loan would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 3.03(b)). The terms and conditions of these Agreements
would be essentially the same as the Bank loan, including the foreign exchange
risk, as well as providing for recovery of the administrative cost of the
Financial Agent and the cost of CEU consultants, in order to ensure that
provincial project components would not result in a fiscal burden for the
Central Government. These costs are not expected to exceed one percent of the
amount of sub-loan disbursements. For subsidiary loans resulting from the
initial quota of loan proceeds allocation (para. 2.11), the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements would stipulate that each participating province would pay the loan
commitment fees as follows: (a) in direct proportion to that province's
participation in the sum of all Subsidiary Loan Agreements undertaken as part



- 20 -
of the initial allocation by quotas; plus (b) this same proportion of the loan
amount to be allocated through the pool. As provinces receive loan proceeds
under the initial quota, their total obligation for commitment fees would
decrease accordingly. For subsidiary loans flowing from the "pool",
Subsidiary Loan Agreements would provide that each province would pay the
commitment fees in direct proportion to its subsidiary loan's participation in
the total of the pool. In cases where provinces make sub-loans to
beneficiaries (e.g., provincial enterprises), similar subsidiary loan
agreements would be made to ensure that the full costs of the Bank loan are
recovered by final beneficiaries, following the procedures established in the
POM.
2.32        Adequate Bank supervision of the proposed project would require
detailed, ex ante review of all provincial FAIPs. These FAIP would include
investment proposals in many sectors, and their adequate review would entail
evaluation of their consistency with general and sectoral development policies
in discussion with or agreed with the Bank. The project's supervision plan is
summarized in Annex 12. Successful implementation of project objectives also
will require intense monitoring of actual performance by both the CEU and the
Bank. The Government already has made substantial progress in implementing
its Provincial Financial Management Information System (partially financed by
the PPF Advances), and it proposes to monitor provinclal financial performance
and evaluate compliance with FAIP agreements on a quarterly basis. The Bank
also would monitor implementation of FAIPs through its supervision missions.
In addition, the Government and the Bank agreed to hare annual reviews to
exchange views on the status of project implementation, particularly regarding
(a) the CEU and PEUs performance in project implementation procedures agreed
with the Bank, and (b) adjustmenits in the POM that ma: be required to improve
implementation of project objectives (para. 3.1(d)).
Procurement
2.33        Procurement would be undertaken by the CEU and up to 24 provinces,
and approximately 78 percent (US$ 362 million) of total physical investments
are expected to be allocated to goods and works for maintenance and
rehabilitation investments. Procedures would be consistent with parallel
financing by the Bank and IDB (para. 2.38). ICB would be based on the Bank
and IDB's "Sample Bidding Documents" for the procurement of works and goods,
and LCB would be based on model bidding documents for the procurement of works
and goods. All of these models would be included in the POM, and approval of
the POM by the Borrower in terms satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition
of effectiveness (para. 3.02(d)).
2.34        Contracts for civil works expected to exceed US$ 3.0 million (to
account for approximately US$ 160 million, or 28 percent of total project
costs) and for goods exceeding US$ 250,000 (to account for approximately US$
10 million, or two percent of total project costs) would be awarded on the
basis of ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for
works expected to cost between US$ 25,000 and US$ 3 million (to account for
approximately US$ 279 million, or 49 percent of total project costs), and
between US$ 25,000 and US$ 250,000 for goods (to account for approximately



- 21 -
US$ 24 million, or four percent of total project costs), would be awarded on
the basis of LCB procedures agreed with the Bank. Procurement for goods and
works costing less that US$ 25,000 (to account for approximately US$ 16
million, or three percent of total project costs) would be done through
international or local shopping involving at least three price quotations.
Consultant services, expected to cost approximately US$ 36 million, or six
percent of total project costs, would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines. These arrangements are summarized in Table 4. Although following
procurement procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines would be new for
many provinces, considerable experience has been gained in the five provinces
implementing the Municipal Development Project. To spread this experience as
broadly as possible, the project preparation activities financed under the PPF
Advances include regional seminars on Bank procurement policies and
procedures.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METHOD
(in US$ millions)
Project Element                            Procurement Method              Total
ICB       LCB     Int./Local   Other    Cost
ShoDRin 
Civil Works
Maintenance                                50.0       10.0               60.0
(18.5)     (3.7)              (22.2)
Rehabilitation                100.0       185.8                         285.8
(37.4)      (68.7)                       (106.1)
Completion and                 60.0        42.9                         102.9
New Works                    (22.4)      (15.9)                        (33.3)
Goods
Maintenance Equip. & Goods      5.0         6.3        5.0               16.3
(2.1)        (2.3)    (1.8)               (6.2)
TA Equip. & Goods               5.0        18.0        1.0               24.0
(2.2)        (6.6)     (0.4)              (9.2)
Consulting Services                                                 36.0   36.0
(18.0) (18.0)
Project Administration                                              50.0   50.0
(0.0)  (0.0)
TOTAL                      170.0        303.0     16.0         86.0  575.0
(64.1)      (112.0)    (5.9)       (18.0)(200.0)
Notes:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
Because the proposed project would finance a time slice of provincial
investments, these estimates by element and method are not precise.



- 22 -
2.35        Except for execution of maintenance programs (for which some
provinces may justify force account procedures as the most efficient and
economical), it is expected that rehabilitation, completion of works and new
investments would be undertaken through contracts with private firms in
accordance with Bank guidelines. On an exceptional basis, force account
procedures could be used by provinces to execute directly civil works, with
total procurement of goods (except related to maintenance) not to exceed 10
percent of the total cost of civil works (rehabilitation, completion of
unfinished works and new investments) in each province on an annual basis.
The Bank would finance equipment and materials for works executed under force
account, but it would not finance salaries, installations or works executed
under force account. Furthermore, the total cost of goods purchased to
support a given civil work (including maintenance) executed under force
account would not exceed US$150,000 equivalent, and all goods purchased under
force account procedures would be procured in accordance with the procedures
summarized in paras. 2.33-2.34.
2.36        To ensure that the agreed procurement process is properly carried
out, the CEU and the Bank would review ex-ante all procurement procedures,
documents, bid evaluations and contract awards for ICB procurement of goods
and works during the entire project implementation period. In addition, at
least during the first year of project implementation, the CEU would review
ex-ante the procedures for all other procurement of goods, works and
consulting services in each province. Bank staff also would review ex-ante
the first two LCB procedures for works and the first two LCB procedures for
goods, previously revieved by the CEU, each year of project implementation.
Prior Bank review of procurement procedures of works and goods is summarized
in Table 5. In all cases, however, the Bank would review LCB, international
and local shopping, force account and consultant procurement procedures on an
ex-post basis by sampling, and if it were determined that procurement was not
made following agreed procedures, then no expenditures for such items would be
financed out to the proceeds of the loan, the Bank would cancel the
corresponding loan amount, and the Special Account would be reimbursed
accordingly by the Borrower (para. 3.01(e)).
Table 5: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
Category                Procedure         Prior Bank Review
Works
Less than US$25,000          Shopping
US$25,000-US$3 million          LCB          First 2 each year
More than US$3 million          ICB                   All
Goods
Less than US$25,000          Shopping
US$25,000-US$250,000            LCB          First 2 each year
More than US$250,000            ICB                   All



- 23 -
Disbursement
2.37        For withdrawal of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, the
following categories and disbursement percentages are proposed:
(a)     100 percent of total expenditures for consultant services and
audits, including travel expenses related to these services;
(b)     100 percent of foreign expenditures for works and goods under all
categories;
(c)     75 percent of local expenditures for works and goods purchased
locally; and
(d)     100 percent of the amounts due to the Bank under the PPF Advances
(para. 2.01).
2.38        The preceding categories and disbursement percentages are based on
the understanding that IDB would provide co-financing, on a parallel basis,
with equivalent categories and disbursement percentages. As part of its
annual review of project implementation, the Bank would evaluate its
participation in total project financing. If the Bank's overall participation
substantially deviates from 35 percent of total project costs, it would
request the CEU to adjust the distribution of its commitments to new
subsidiary loans with proceeds of the Bank and IDB loans accordingly until
each agency's financing participation is consistent with the project's
financing plan. However, if IDB financing is not approved within one year
after the proposed loan is declared effective, then the Bank would agree with
the Government to increase the Bank's financial participation up to 60 percent
of total project costs (para. 2.21).
2.39        A Special Account, in US dollars and with an initial deposit of
approximately US$ 12 million dollars (estimate of average disbursements for
four months), would be established in the Account Bank as would be provided in
the Financial Agency Agreement (para. 2.31) between the Financial Agent and
Account Bank and the Central Government which would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 3.02 (c)). The Special Account would be managed by the
CEU. All disbursements against contracts for less than US$ three million for
works, and for less than US$ 250,000 for goods and services, would be made on
the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation
for SOEs would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by the CEU and
made available for inspection by Bank staff. All other disbursements would be
made against standard documentation.
2.40        Formal agreement by the Central Government and a participating
province for implementation of the province's FAIP would be made through a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank. The FAIP would include
specific sub-projects that would be potentially eligible for project
financing, but at the time of FAIP approval and the signing of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, detailed appraisal of each sub-project may not be completed
and approved. Therefore, each sub-project must have specific Bank approval



- 24 -
(based on its full technical, economic, financial and environmental appraisal)
before that sub-project would be eligible for disbursements from the Loan
Account. Additional details regarding proposed disbursement procedures are
provided in Annex 12.
2.41        As the first project of this nature and scope, there is no
specific regional disbursement profile to apply for the proposed project.
However, based on recent experience in Argentina a disbursement period and
regional profile of six years is proposed (Annex 13). The time required to
commit and disburse the loan will depend on the provinces' financial capacity
to provide counterpart funding and institutional capacity to propose, appraise
and execute sub-projects that are economically efficient, financially
sustainable and environmentally sound. From the perspective of financial
capacity (see Annex 5, Table 5.2), in 1989, 12 of 23 provinces produced
current account surpluses (without grants). Summing these surpluses provides
a total of US$ 360 million. Although of course not all of this amount should
be considered as available for meeting the provincial counterpart requirement
(US$ 175 million), it provides an order of magnitude regarding the provinces'
capacity to invest and to service debt. The sum of the real investments
(works and goods) in these 12 provinces was US$ 485 million in 1989, down from
US$ 815 million in 1988 (Annex 6, Table 6.2). Considering a six year project
implementation period, the proposed project's financing for real investments
(US$ 465 million) would represent Bank financing for about 16 percent of the
total real investment program, assuming that only 12 provinces were eligible
for investment financing and no improvement in current account surpluses.
These data suggest that provincial counterpart funding does not present the
largest risk to project implementation. Rather, the key to implementation
success and timely disbursements lies with the institutional capacity to
design, implement and supervise investments that are consistent with Bank
guidelines.
2.42        Regardins provincial institutional capacity to generate timely
disbursements, approximately 52 percent (US$ 242 million, Table 4) of total
physical investments (Table 1) are expected to be allocated to provincial
maintenance programs and rehabilitation investments implemented under LCB
procedures, and these would have less demanding appraisal requirements than
larger, new investments (see Annex 10). It may be expected, therefore, that
relatively small maintenance and rehabilitation investments may be implemented
quickly while larger projects are under preparation. Technical assistance to
be financed under the project is expected to support this process, and the PPF
Advances also are expected to support the institutional arrangements necessary
for project implementation to be initiated quickly. Based on a six year
disbursement profile, and assuming that the loan would become effectime
approximately March 15, 1991, then the project's estimated completion date
would be June 30, 1996, and the proposed closing date would be December 31,
1996. If the project is executed more rapidly than the six year regional
profile, the shorter execution period would increase the benefits of the
project, and indicate that the provinces have potential to mobilize
efficiently more resources for investments.



- 25 -
Accounts and Audits
2.43        Annual audits of the Special Account, of the project account for
the CEU component and of the project accounts for each participating province
would be performed by private, independent auditors satisfactoty to the Bank,
under terms of reference also satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.01(h)). The
audit reports would be delivered to the Bank not later than four months after
the end of each year, and project account audits would include, inter alia,
separate opinions on (a) sources and uses of account funds, (b) SOEs, and (c)
compliance with all Bank agreements, including implementation of financial and
other eligibility criteria established in the POM.
Financial Impact
2.44        Beneficial financial impact is at the very core of the project's
objectives. Through targeted technical assistance, and through conditioning
access to project financing to improvements in provincial financial
performance as an incentive to these improvements, the project seeks to
support the large potential for improved financial management at the
provincial level, as identified in the PGFS. For example, reforms in all
provinces resulting from a 15 percent reduction in expenditures and a 15
percent increase in revenues would result in a fiscal gain of about US$ one
billion in one year (Annex 5, Table 5.1).
Economic ImDact and Analysis
2.45        The overall rate of return for all civil works components except
community facilities was estimated based on the projected investment profile
for potentially eligible provinces, using the results of Project Completion
Reports for each type of component. The results show an economic internal
rate of return of 19 percent for these components that represent about 60
percent of the total eligible investment cost (See Annex 8). As a minimum,
the economic rate of return for components with full benefit-cost analysis
would be 12 percent.
2.46        For completion of unfinished works and new investments estimated
to cost US$ 2 million or more, the POM would require a full economic
appraisal, with a rate of return estimate.5 For investments estimated to
cost less than US$ 2 million, and for maintenance operations and
rehabilitation investments, the POM would indicate that the least cost
alternative for a given service level specification would be acceptable (Annex
10).
Social ImDact
2.47        Successful implementation of the proposed project would have two
main social impacts: construction employment generation; and increased equity
in provincial tax administration (Annex 8). Using the estimate of 30 percent
s      For paved provincial roads, benefit-cost analysis would be done
for investments costing US$3 million or more.



- 26 -
as the cost of labor in total works' cost (US$ 449 million), and the average
monthly wage of construction workers at roughly US$ 100 equivalent, project
implementation would generate about 110,000 person years of construction
employment. This would have an especially important impact during a period of
high unemployment, particularly among unskilled workers that could work in
construction, expected during the adjustment period. The project also would
support measures to increase the efficiency of tax collection, and this
generally would also increase equity by eliminating tax evasion and free
riding.
Environmental Impact
2.48        As a sector operation with multiple executing agencies and without
a specific investment program at this time, an Environmental Assessment has
not been done. Rather, the project would seek to ensure that the CEU and PEUs
establish and maintain an adequate institutional capacity to screen
investments with potential environmental impacts and put in place remedial
measures, when necessary. Thus, the POM (Annex 10) would include the
environmental screening and assessment guidelines consistent with the Bank's
environmental policy, and the CEU and Bank staff would monitor implementation
of these guidelines (para. 3.01(i)). In addition, the project would finance
technical assistance needed to improve the institutional capacity of
provincial governments to do environmental assessments and to implement
remedial measures.
Project Risks and Safeguards
2.49        The main risks are (a) lack of initial interest of the provinces
in doing the fiscal reforms required for participation eligibility (b) lack of
continuity in political commitment to the project during its implementation,
and (c) other factors over which the provinces have little or no control, such
as: macroeconomic instability, declines in the prices of export products and
crop failure. In other words, some of the provinces may not be interested;
those that do decide to enter may not show high levels of commitment and
efficacy; and "exogenous" factors might inhibit good performance.
2.50        The project would have a built-in mechanism for managing these
risks in that it would allocate project resources based on performance. Those
provinces which begin project implementation earlier and perform better (i.e.,
develop the institutions and generate current account surplus) will receive
more resources. In this sense, the different provinces can be seen as
elements of a "portfolio" in which the risks of non-performance due to the
above mentioned internal and external factors varies considerably. In other
words, the "portfolio" is diversified, increasing the probability of good
performance on average for the project as a whole. Furthermore, it is
expected that the incentives for revenue and expenditure reforms provided by
the project's proposed eligibility criteria would stimulate the diffusion of
innovations attained in more successful provinces to less successful ones.



- 27 -
III. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01        During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a)     the project will be carried out in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and it will not be
amended without the Bank's prior consent (para. 2.09);
(b)     the Central Execution Unit will be designated and adequately
staffed and )therwise supported in the implementation of its
responsibil.ty under the project (para 2.22);
(c)     except for proceeds used to finance the Institutional Development
Component of the Central Government, all of the proceeds of the
Bank loan will be onlent to eligible provinces under terms and
conditions equivalent to the Bank loan, with each participating
province's revenue sharing serving as a guarantee for repayment of
subloans (para 2.31);
(d)     the Government and the Bank would have annual reviews to exchange
views on the status of project implementation (para. 2.32);
(e)     procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines
(paras. 2.33-2.36);
(f)     if the Bank's overall financing participation substantially
deviates from 35 percent of total project costs, the CEU would
adjust the distribution of its commitments to new subsidiary loans
with proceeds of the Bank and IDB loans accordingly until each
agency's financing participation is consistent with the project's
financing plan (para. 2.38);
(g)     the Government will open and maintain, in US dollars, a Special
Account (2.39);
(h)     the Special Account and Project Accounts will be audited according
to procedures and with auditors acceptable to the Bank (para
2.43); and
(i)     the CEU and PEUs will carry out environmental protection measures,
as provided in the Project Operations Manual in a manner
consistent with the Bank's environmental policy (para. 2.48).
(j)     the Government will provide proper coordination and policy
consistency between the proposed operation and other, proposed
sector-specific projects at the provincial level (para. 2.18).



- 28 -
3.02        The following would be Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)     the establishment and adequate staffing (including civil servants
and consultants) of the CEU and of the PEUs in the provinces
referred to in (b) below (para. 2.28);
(b)     the execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at least three
provinces, representing an initial allocation of loan proceeds
equivalent to not less than 25 percent of the amount of the Bank's
loan (para. 2.31);
(c)     the execution of the Financial Agency Agreement between the
Government and the Financial Agent and Account Bank (paras. 2.31
and 2.39);
(d)     approval of the POM by the Borrower in terms satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 2.33); and
(e)     satisfactory legal opinions on the validity of the actions and
Agreements referred to in (a) to (d) above.
3.03        Special Condition of Disbursement in respect of each province
would be:
(a)     establishment and adequate staffing of the PEU (para. 2.28);
(b)     execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para.
2.31); and
(c)     satisfactory legal opinion on the validity of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Recommendation
3.04        With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 200.0 million equivalent, to be
repaid over a period of 17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and fees.



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SRatial Distribution of Population. Product and Poverty
1.          Although both population and product are still highly concentrated
in the Federal Capital and the Province of Buenos Aires, the tendency over the
1970-85 period was for both population and product to grow more rapidly outside
of these two areas, especially in what might be called the "resource frontier"- -
the sparsely populated provinces of the periphery with rich endowments of natural
resources.
The CFI1 Stratification of Provinces
2.          Many CFI studies stratify the provinces in four groups:
Advanced          Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Mendoza, Santa Fe and the Federal
Capital (Municipality of Buenos Aires).
Low Density       Chubut, La Pampa, Neuquen, Rio Negro and Santa Cruz.
Intermediate      Entre Rios, Salta, San Juan, San Luis and Tucuman.
Underdeveloped    Catamarca, Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa, Jujuy, La Rioja,
Misiones and Santiago del Estero.
These four groups are relatively homogeneous with regard to population size,
economic product and poverty levels, but the names of the four groups are
confusing. For example, Formosa has low demographic density, but is classified
as "Underdeveloped" and not "Low Density. I More descriptive names for these same
CFI regions would be:
Advanced          High Population and Gross Provincial Product(GPP)
Intermediate      Intermediate Population and Per Capita GPP.
Low Density       Small Population and High Per Capita GPP. These are
provinces on the "Resource Frontier", such as Chubut,
Neuquen, etc.
Underdeveloped    Low Per Capita GPP and High Poverty.
1      CFI (Consejo Federal de Inversiones) is a rather unique public
institution that is financed by a percentage of total provincial revenue sharing,
and its Board of Governors is comprised of the Governors of all the provinces.
Thus, it is national is scope, but provincial in focus.



- 30 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 8
Note that the last category uses slightly different criteria than the others in
that it includes all provinces with low per capita product and high relative
poverty levels, even those with populations of small and intermediate size. One
way to think of this process of classification, then, is that the poorest
provinces are first grouped into one group, and the rest are, in turn, classified
by population and per capita product. The provinces of the Intermediate Group
had populations ranging from 500,000 to 1.1 million in 1985 and per capita GPP
in the middle third of the distribution.
Population. Product and Poverty by Province and CFI Group2
3.          Of the total estimated population of 30.6 million in 1985, 21.6
million (70.5 percent) lived in the Advanced Group. See Table 1.1. The 36,000
inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego are excluded. Almost 40 percent of Argentina's
total population lived in the Province of Buenos Aires alone in 1985.  Well over
half of the population lives in the three largest provinces: Buenos Aires, Santa
Fe and Cordoba. The population of the Province of Buenos Aires is about the same
as that of Chile, living in an area about the size of Italy (307,571 square
kilometers). However, 63.6 percent of this population is concentrated in the
Municipalities of Gran Buenos Aires located in the Province of Buenos Aires
(excluding the Federal Capital). The total population of the Gran Buenos Aires
and the Federal Capital was 10.6 million in 1985 (34,6% of the total population
of the country). However, the annual rates of population growth of the other
groups were much higher during the 1970s. For example, the rate of population
growth for the Low Density Group was almost twice that of the Advanced Group.
4.          The total population of the five provinces of the Low Density Group
was only 1.4 million in 1985, about half that of the province of Santa Fe in the
same year. For example, the province Santa Cruz, the second largest in area, is
about the same size as the United Kingdom, yet had a population of only 115,000
in 1980, giving it a demographic density of only a half a person per square
kilometer. However, these provinces are quite important in economic terms, due
mostly to their high production of oil, minerals and other primary products. The
total population of the 5 provinces of the Intermediate Group was 3.6 million
(11.8 percent of the National total).   The 8 provinces of the Underdeveloped
Group had a total population of 4.0 million (13.6 percent of the National total),
ranging from 180,000 in La Rioja to 780,000 in Chaco.
5.          Although the percentage of households with unsatisfied basic needs
tends to be higher in provinces with smaller populations and lower per capita
products, such as Formosa (46.8 percent) and Santiago del Estero (45.8 percent),
the concentration in absolute terms is highest in the Advanced Group, especially
its three largest provinces. For example, of the 1.6 million households with
unsatisfied basic needs, 59.5 percent lived in the Advanced Group, with 35.9
percent located in Buenos Aires, 8.4 percent in Santa Fe and 7.5 percent in
Cordoba. The Underdeveloped Group had 20.5 percent of the total, and the other
two regions combined 19.9 percent.   Thus, efforts to redistribute among the
provinces, as in revenue sharing, can run at odds with the objective of
interpersonal distribution, as they tend to distribute away from the areas where
the absolute concentrations of the poor are the highest.



- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
6.          Gross Provincial Product (GPP) is very highly concentrated in the
Advanced Group (78.4 percent in 1985, almost exactly the same as 1980).2 The
GPP of all eight provinces of the Underdeveloped Group was less than that of
Santa Fe in 1985, as was the total GPP of the Intermediate Group.   The fastest
growing provinces during the 1970-80 period were outside of the Advanced Group,
especially on the "resource frontier" due mostly to the increase in gas and oil
production. For example, Neuquen's GPP grew at 11.6 percent per annum during the
1970s.   However, stagnation set in for most of the provinces in the first half
of the 1980s, especially for the Underdeveloped Group which showed a decline of
about 1 percent per year. The biggest loser, however, was the Federal Capital for
which GPP dropped at about 2.8 percent per year. Over the 1970/85 period, the
annual rates of growth for the different groups were:
Low Density (4.1 percent);
Intermediate (2.7 percent);
Underdeveloped (2.7 percent); and
Advanced (1.3 percent).
The sectors which were most dynamic in the Low Density group over this same
period were public utilities (16.2 percent per year); manufacturing (5.6
percent); producer services (5.6 percent), although the other sectors also were
more dynamic than the national average.
7.          In terms of per capita GPP, the Province of Buenos Aires ranks in
twelfth position with a per capita GPP of US$1,675 in 1985, about half that of
the Provinces of Santa Cruz, Chubut or Neuquen.  The three poorest provinces
(Formosa, Santiago del Estero and La Rioja) had per capita GPP of less than
US$1,000.
2      For a discussion of the methodology used in calculating the Gross
Provincial Product,  see:   Consejo Federal de Inversiones,  Producto Bruto
Geo-rafico: 1970-1985, Buenos Aires, CFI, 1988. This publication is currently
available for most of the provinces.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
- 32 -
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1.1
Population by Provincial Group and Provinco: 1970-1986
Groups                 Population ('100)         Relative   Absolute Annual    Area    Inhabitants
Provinces           -----------------------  Distribution  Change  Growth  (sq. km.) per sq. km.
1970    1980    1986  -------------- 50-80  Rates                     1980
(satim.)  1970   1980  ('000)  70/80
TOTAL                28,349  27,920  30,814  100.0  100.0   4,671    1.80  2,768,829           10.1
ADVANCED             16,916  19,858  21,6eC   71.1   70.6   2,942    1.62    758,871           26.2
Capital Federal       2,972   2,928   2,898   10.6    9.6        (60)  -0.17         200   14,614.1
Buenos Aires          8,776  16,8e6  12,091   88.0   89.5   2,091    2.16    807,671           86.8
Cordoba               2,060   2,408   2,608    8.6    8.5       848    1.67    168,766         14.8
Mendoza                 978   1,196   1,828    4.8    4.8       228    2.09    148,827          8.0
Santa Fe              2,136   2,466   2,849    8.8    8.7        380    1.45    133,007        18.5
LOW DENSITY             s84   1,214   1,442    4.8    4.7       360    8.46    909,160          1.8
Chubut                  190      263     81o    0.9    1.0        73    8.31    224,6e8          1.2
La Pampa                172      208     229    0.7    0.7        86    1.98    143,440          1.5
Neuquen                 1S5      244     080    0.9    1.0        89    4.86      94,078         2.6
Rio Negro               263      8a8     463    1.4    1.6       121    8.86    203,018          1.9
Santa Cruz               84      115     134    0.4    0.4        80    8.13    243,948         0.6
INTERMEDIATE          2,666   3,224   3,668   11.6   11.6       669    1.98    422,479          7.6
Entre Rion              812      908     961    8.8    8.1       97    1.18       78,781       11.6
Salts                   510      6ea     756    2.4    2.5       158    2.66    164,776         4.8
San Juan                884      486    s51      1.7    1.7       82    1.94      89,651         6.2
San Luis                188      214     282    0.8    0.8        81    1.67      76,748        2.8
Tucuman                 766      978   1,096    8.6    8.6      207    2.42       22,624       48.2
UNDERDEVELOPED        2,914   8,625   4,046   13.0   18.2        710    2.21    668,819         6.4
Catamarca               172      208     228    0.7    0.7       86    1.89    100,967          2.1
Chaco                   6e7      701     780    2.6    2.6       138    2.16      99,688        7.0
Corriontes              564      66l     716    2.4    2.8       97    1.60      88,199         7.5
Formosa                 234      296     888    1.1    1.1       62    2.87       72,066        4.1
Jujuy                   802      410     477    1.5    1.6       108    8.09      58,219        7.7
La Rioja                186    164       180    0.6    0.6       28    1.89       89,680        1.8
Misiones                448      689     679    2.1    2.2       146    2.89      29,801       19.8
Santiago del Estero    495       596     652    2.1    2.1       100    1.86    136,264         4.4
Source: INDEC, Census of Population 1970 and 1980.  Estimates for 1985 done by
extrapolation of geometric rate.



ANNEX 1
- 33 -                                    Page 5 of 8
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1.2
Households with Unsatisfied Bnle Needs by
Provincial Group and Province: 1980
Groups                 Absolute       X of      X of  Accumulated
Provinces                          Provincial National   X    X
Total    Total
TOTAL                  1,686,228                 169.6
ADVANCED                 948,669        17.7      69.6  59.6
Federal Capital           67,692         7.4       4.8        4.8
Buenos Aires             668,926        19.9      86.9        40.2
Cordoba                  118,816        19.2       7.6        47.6
Mendoza                   66,061        20.4       8.6        61.2
Santa Fe                 132,668        20.0       8.4        69.6
LOW DENSITY               88,786        28.6       6.3  64.6
Chubut                    18,696        29.8       1.2        60.7
Le Pampa                  10,679        18.5       0.7        61.4
Neuquen                   17,951        83.9       1.1        62.5
Rio Negro                 30,401        82.8       1.9        64.4
Santa Cruz                 6,009        22.7       0.4        64.8
INTERMEDIATE             232,077        32.9      14.8  79.6
Entre Rion                61,386        27.9       8.9        68.7
Salta                     58,228        42.4       8.7        72.4
San Juan                  26,803        26.0       1.6        74.6
San Luis                  14,078        27.7       0.9        74.9
Tucuman                   72,668        a8.6       4.6        79.5
UNDERDEVELOPED           326,762        42.8      20.5 100.0
Catamarca                 16,129        87.8       1.6        86.6
Chaco                     67,410        44.0       4.8        84.?
Corrientes                66,889        40.6       8.6        88.8
Formosa                   28,782        46.8       1.8        90.1
Jujuy                     88,88s        46.1       2.6        92.6
La Rioja                  11,062        81.6       0.7        98.8
Misiones                  50,6,5        89.2       8.2        96.6
Sgo. dol Eatero           56,151        46.8       8.5       100.0
Source: INDEC, La Pobreza en Ia Argentina.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
- 34 -
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tablo 1.8
Gross Provincial Product by Provincial Group and Province: 1970-1985
Millions ot US$ ot July 1988
Groups               1970     1980    1985  Relative Distribution Absolute Changes       Annual Rates
Provinces                                     --------------------- ---------------- ---------------------
1970  1980   1986   70/80   80/85   70/80  80/86  70/86
TOTAL                46,622   59,719   59,239  100.0  100.0  100.0   13,197    (480)  2.5  -0.2    1.6
ADVANCED             38,391   46,954   48,466   82.5  78.6  78.4    8,68    (499)  2.0  -0.2    1.8
Capital Federal      18,222   16,705   13,689   28.4  28.3  22.9    2,483  (2,116)   1.7  -2.9    0.2
Buenos Aires         15,760   19,022   20,087   83.9  31.9  88.8    8,271   1,018    1.9    1.0   1.8
Cordoba               8,025   4,816    4,468   e.6   7.2    7.5    1,292    1S0    3.6   0.7    2.6
Mendoza               2,279    2,260    2,638    4.9   8.8   4.4        (19)    878   -0.1   8.1    1.0
Santa Fe              4,114    5,650    5,729    8.8   9.5    9.7    1,586       79   3.2   0.8    2.2
LOW DENSITY           2,097    3,800    3,838    4.6   6.4   8.5      1,708      as   8.1   0.2   4.1
Chubut                  6e0      998     88s    1.2   1.7   1.5         438    (109)   6.9  -2.8    8.1
La Pampa                870     497      e68    0.8   0.8   1.1         127    168    8.0   6.0    4.0
Neuquen                 881      994      910   0.7    1.7   1.5        e8a      (84)  11.6  -1.7    7.0
Rio Negro               562     862       978    1.2   1.4   1.7        80l    116    4.4   2.5    8.8
Santa Cruz              275     461      398    0.6    0.8   0.7        178    (63)  5.1  -2.6    2.6
INTERMEDIATE         3,405    4,875    6,044    7.8    8.2   8.5    1,471       169    8.7   0.7   2.7
Entre Rios            1,183    1,319    1,218    2.5    2.2   2.1       136    (102)   1.1  -1.6    0.2
Salta                  627      951    1,110    1.3   1.6    1.9        824     159   4.8    8.1   8.9
San Juan                889      S69      591    0.8    1.0   1.0       181      22    3.9   0.7    2.8
San Luis                288     351      416   0.5   0.6   0.7          1l1      64    4.0   8.4    8.8
Tucuman                 967    1,684    1,710    2.1   2.8   2.9        718      26    5.7    0.8   3.9
UNDERDEVELOPED        2,829    4,090    8,901    5.7   6.8   6.8      1,460    (186)   4.5  -0.9    2.7
Catamarca               180     251      289   0.8   0.4    0.6         121      as   6.8    2.9   6.6
Chaco                  486      718      837    1.0   1.2   1.1         247     (78)   4.3  -2.2    2.1
Corrientes             688      8s6      793    1.4   1.6   1.3         228      (78)   3.1  -1.7    1.5
Formosa                 196     248      261    0.4   0.4   0.4          50       5   2.8   0.4    1.7
Jujuy                  865      642      648   0.8   1.1   1.1          287       5    6.1   0.2   4.1
La Rioja                104     164       169   0.2    0.8    0.8        6o       (6)   4.7  -0.8    2.9
Misiones               8a8      628     S5l   0.7   1.1   1.0           292    (47)   6.4  -1.5    8.7
Santiago del Estero    404       579      544   0.9   1.0   0.9         175      (86)  3.7  -1.2    2.0
Source: CFI.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
- 35 -
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1.4
Gross Provincial Product per Capita
Provincial Group and Province: 1970-1986
US1 of July 1988
Groups                       1976        1980      Annual
Provinces                                          Growth
Rates
70/860
TOTAL                       1,992       2,139        0.71
ADVANCED                    2,270       2,3a6        0.41
Capital Federal             4,448       6,878        1.91
Buonos Aires                1,795       1,761       -0.26
Cordoba                     1,488       1,798        2.02
Mendoza                     2,848       1,890       -2.18
Santa F.                    1,927       2,292        1.75
LOW DENSITY                 2,429       8,182        2.58
Chubut                      2,948       8,784        2.65
La Pampa                    2,151       2,a88        1.06
Nouquen                     2,139       4,078        6.68
Rio Negro                   2,189       2,249        0.60
Santa Cruz                  8,258       8,926        1.89
INTERMEDIATE                1,282       1,512        1.66
Entre Rion                  1,468       1,465       -0.64
Salts                       1,280       1,485        1.66
San Juan                    1,011       1,222        1.91
San Luis                    1,298       1,689        2.86
Tucuman                     1,288       1,781        8.20
UNDERDEVELOPED                902       1,128        2.26
Catamarca                     762       1,209        4.88
Chaco                         828       1,017        2.14
Corriontee                  1,186       1,809        1.48
Formosa                       889         882       -0.68
Jujuy                       1,176       1,687        2.92
La Rloja                      780         996        2.74
Uisiones                      769       1,087        8.46
Santiago del Estero           816         972        1.78
Source: Soo tables 1.1 and 1.8.



ANNEX 1
- 36 -                                     Page 8 of 8
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1.6
Annual Rate oa Change of Gross Provincial Product by Sector, Provincial Group and Provinco: 1970-1986
U
Croups            Total    Agricul-  Mining  Manufac-  Public    Cons.  Producer Co-mrce Finance, Personal
Provincoe                    ture              tur   Utilities          Services          Insurance Services
1        2        8        4        6        6        7        8        9
TOTAL                  1.6      2.0      2.8      1.2      5.7    -1.7       90       8.o      1.7      2.6
ADVANCED               1.8      2.1      3.5      1.9      4.1    -8.2       0.7      3.0      1.6      1.7
Federal Capital        0.2                       -0.6      2.8    -6.9    -4.8        1.6      1.3      1.9
Buenos Aires           1.6      2.2    -1.1       1.1      5.4    -2.7       1.4      3.9      2.0      1.8
Cordoba                2.6      6.1    -3.0       0.9      6.8      O.9      8.1      1.3      1.9      1.1
Mendoza                1.0   -12.7       4.7      2.1      4.8    -0.7       2.7      4.4      2.2    -0.5
Santa Fe               2.2      1.8      3.8      3.2      4.4    -1.8       1.1      3.7      1.9      2.6
LOW DENSITY            4.1      2.6      8.2      5.6    16.2    -1.4        5.6      3.2      2.4      6.3
Chubut                 8.1      1.5      2.9      4.9    16.9    -4.8        4.4      1.7      1.3      5.0
La Pampa               4.0      2.7      2.3      9.8      9.4      8.7      4.2      4.4      2.6      6.7
Neuquen                7.0      5.1      9.6      4.0    20.8    -6.2       11.9      4.6      8.8      6.7
Rio Negro              8.8      2.7    -1.1       5.0    12.8       1.4      3.7      5.9      8.1      8.3
Santa Cruz             2.6      0.9      1.9      2.6    15.4       0.9      09       8.7      1.2       6.4
INTERMEDIATE           2.7      1.8    -4.1       8.4    10.9       3.9      9.2      8.6      1.9      4.4
Entre Rio*             0.2    -0.4       0.2    -1.8      14.2      1.8     -5.9      1.7      o.o      8.2
Salta                  8.9      1.7     -1.1      1.8     10.2      5.7      4.8      8.4      2.5      7.6
San Juan               2.8      2.1      1.9      6.8      5.6      4.4      1.4      2.1      0.4      2.2
Son Luis               3.8      2.0    -1.4       7.8      2.8      1.6      1.8      6.7      2.1      7.2
Tucuman                3.9      8.4      7.7      6.7      8.8      4.4      9.7      4.8      8.9      8.9
UNDERDEVELOPED         2.7      1.8    -1.7       2.7      9.4      2.1      9.6      8.6      2.2       4.4
Catamarca              6.6      8.9   -14.6    17.6    18.6    -1.1          0.8      2.2      1.9      7.9
Chaco                  2.1      2.1      6.7    -0.8       8.4      2.9      1.4      9.8      1.9      8.9
Corrientes             1.6      1.4      6.6      1.7      6.9    -4.6    -4.8        2.5      1.5      1.7
Forwoa                 1.7    -4.8      21.0    -2.0    11.9    -4.8    -8.9          6.9      8.9      6.1
Jujuy                  4.1      4.2    -2.6       8.5      6.0      6.4      8.6      6.6      5.1      6.8
La RioJo               2.9      5.1      6.4      4.4    11.8    -6.6    -1.2         8.8      1.7      8.9
Miniones               8.7      2.2    -7.6       8.9    12.2       4.8      1.7      5.1      1.9      4.7
Sgo. del Estero        2.0     -6.7     -9.8      1.6      6.9      8.2      9.6      8.4      2.6       4.8
Source: CFI.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 11
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recent Evolution of the Provincial/National
Revenue Sharing System
1.          The PGFS argued that the Revenue Sharing System (RSS) should be
predictable, transparent, provide transfers in sustainable and equitable
quantities, and also provide incentives to provincial fiscal autonomy. This
Annex will analyze the impact of changes in the laws governing the RSS during
the 1988-89 period in terms of these criteria.
Revenue Sharing Law
2.          The Revenue Sharing Law (Ley 23548/88) has not been altered. The
national taxes shared include: income tax, capital tax, net worth tax, value
added tax (VAT), foreign exchange transaction tax and stamp duty. Thus, in
1988, about 60% of the total tax revenues of the Central Government were
shared with the provinces. As discussed (see paras. 1.13-1.22), the revenue
from the shared taxes dropped precipitously in real terms in both 1988 and
1989 due to the rapid rise of inflation and the resulting Olivera-Tanzi
effect, as well as a decline in the efficacy of in the collection of shared
taxes. To make up for this shortfall, the Central Government made advances on
the amount to be shared with the provinces. In addition, a number of
supplementary laws have been enacted to compensate for this shortfall in
shared taxes and to assist some of the provinces in adapting to the new
system. These advances and laws are discussed below.
Advances on Revenue Sharing
3.          After the period of hyperinflation in June/July 1989, the Central
Government allowed advances on the amounts to be transferred to make up for
the shortfall in tax revenues. These advances were allocated with the
following weights: (a) 65% on the criteria for secondary distribution in
revenue sharing and (b) 35% in accord with the total salary bill of each
province. This "reward" for provinces with the higher payrolls is certainly
questionable in terms of the criteria defined above, but the total amount of
the benefit is relatively low (i.e., equal to the interest rate on the amount
of the advance in excess of that which would have been received using only the
secondary distribution criteria). As these advances were not tied to any
increase in revenues, they added to the fiscal deficit of the Central
Government.
Transitional Fund for Fiscal Disequilibria (TFFD)
4.          In May of 1988, Congress enacted this legislation to assist 15
provinces that were experiencing problems in adapting to the new revenue
sharing system with revenues garnered from a surcharge on cigarettes, a tax on



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 11
fixed-term deposits, and a tax on the transfer of public bonds. Although this
represented a departure from the distribution defined in the revenue sharing
law, it was a transitional measure, enacted by Congress and financed by a tax
increase. This, then, represented a distinct improvement over the past
situation, where the provinces with fiscal problems bargained directly with
the Minister of Economy of the Central Government for discretionary grants
straight from the general fund.
5.          In 1989, this law was extended but the amount going to the 15
provinces was reduced to 55.66% with the remainder distributed to all 22
provinces using the criteria for secondary distribution defined in the revenue
sharing law (23548/88). Thus, the TFFD became a way of making up for the
shortfall of shared national tax revenues due to hyperinflation, as well as to
assist the 15 provinces with continuing fiscal deficits.
6.          In 1990, the law was once again extended with 60% going to seven
provinces (Tucuman, Salta, La Rioja, Jujuy, Catamarca, San Juan and
Corrientes) and 40% to all 22 provinces using the criteria for secondary
distribution. However, this time the seven provinces of the first group would
receive the amounts stipulated only if they satisfied a number of conditions
including: adhesion to the National Economic Emergency Law and the Reform of
the State Law; maintenance of salary levels at or below those for equivalent
positions at the national level; and the implementation of a financial action
plan to reduce the fiscal deficit. Starting in April 1990, the national
Ministry of Economy makes quarterly reports on the progress of these provinces
in reducing their fiscal deficits. If no progress is made, the funds
originally set aside for the province will be redistributed among all 22
provinces using the criteria for secondary distribution of the revenue sharing
law. Hence, the law provides not only incentives for control of fiscal
disequilibria, but also penalties for provinces which do not take positive
steps for reducing their deficits. These measures are consistent with the
recommendations of the PGFS.
Fund for Financing the Social Security System
7.          This Law (Ley 23.549) distributes revenues from the tax on fuels,
piped gas and on telephone use to the Central Government (90%) and the
provincial governments (10%) for payment of social security benefits.
Secondary distribution among the provincial governments is done based on the
distribution of beneficiaries in the provincial social security systems.
Fund for Earthauakes and Disaster Areas
8.          Law 23.658 (extended in 1988 for three years) allocates a two
percent tax on deposit accounts to eleven provinces affected by natural
disasters in accord with percentages set in the law.
The Bonos
9.          The shortfall of shared revenues in 1988 in conjunction with



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 11
increasing provincial deficits led to a financial crisis in December of 1988.
The resulting law involved tax reform, an effort t- control the fiscal loss
from Industrial Promotion and the issuance of two .onds: the Bono El
Saneamento Financiero Provincial (hereafter, Bono Provincial) and the Bono
Federal.
Bono Provincial (Title I). The Bono Provincial of A$ three billion
(about US$200 million) was a non-negotiable bond of the Central
Government transferred to the provinces using the same percentages
established for secondary distribution in the revenue sharing law. The
provinces should repay the loan to the Central Government in two years
with one of grace, with interest determined by the Central Bank plus
monetary correction. Payments will be automatically deducted from the
shared revenues of the provinces. Most provinces transferred the bonds
at face value to the provincial banks in payment of their debts. This
Bono is a good example of how convoluted intergovernmental relations in
Argentina can be: it was issued by the central government, but
"marketed" by the provinces, to be paid by the Central Government, using
resources discounted from the resources of the provinces from revenue
sharing.
The Bono Federal (Title V). This bond of A$ two billion (US$130 million)
was to have been issued by the government, which was to receive 42.3
percent and the provinces 57.7 percent with secondary distribution among
the provinces using the percentages for secondary distribution from the
revenue sharing law.   However, due to the economic crisis, the bond was
never marketed by the Central Government.
The Overall Impact of the RSS
10.         Inflation of about 400 percent in 1988 and about 5,000 percent in
1989 in combination with a lack of efficacy in the collection of shared taxes
led to a significant shortfall of expected shared tax revenues in both years.
This, together with the continued very high fiscal deficits in some provinces
led to all of the above measures. Even adding on the amounts from the TFFD
and the Bono Provincial did not compensate for the shortfall in shared taxes
in 1988, which dropped by almost eight percent in real terms in the 1987/88
period. Although the new Revenue Sharing Law clearly represents a
considerable improvement in intergovernmental fiscal relations, it clearly
cannot compensate for the lack of an adequate macroeconomic stabilization
policy at the national level.
11.         Tables 2.1-2.7 summarize the revenue sharing status of provinces
in 1989, in comparison with 1988. Note the decline of 22 percent in total
shared taxes (Table 2.1). This is compensated for in part by the increase of
50 percent in the TFFD and by the Provincial Bonds (Table 7.2). The total
amount transferred via all of these measures was almost exactly the same for
this period in 1988 and 1989. In both years, the TFFD benefitted the poor
performers the most with Salta, Tucuman, La Rioja and Jujuy receiving the
"lion's share" of the total. The conditionality of the TFFD law for 1990



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 11
(para. 6) should drastically reduce the premium for poor performance.
Royalties
12.         Royalties are paid to the provinces producing natural gas or
petroleum.   There has been much conflict over the method used in establishing
the base prices for these products. In 1987, Decree 631 established that the
prices would be adjusted by the general wholesale price index. This system
was suspended from July 1988 through May 1989, but reinstated in May 1989.
The reform of this system of royalties should be part of the reform of energy
policy at the national level. Among the alternatives being considered are:
the payment of the royalties in kind (e.g., barrels of oil or cubic meters of
gas) that the province could then sell on the market, the transfer of subsoil
property rights to the provinces, and other methods of calculating the price
of the products.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 11
- 41 -
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tablo 2.1
Porcontage Incr es by Type of Transfer to the Provinoe
January through December: 1988-1989
Provinces          Revonue  Rovenue Sharing  Revonue Sharing  Revenuo Sharing
Sharing    plus all other    pluo all other    plus all other
Transfers except    Transfers and    Transfors plus
Social Security  Social Security Bonds and Advence
Buenos Air"s        -17.70            -19.79            -11.47              1.13
Catamarca           -17.70            -10.25            -10.65              4.17
C0rdoba             -17.70             -9.70            -10.11             -O.86
Corrionteo          -17.70             -8.85             -8.79              8.79
Chaco               -17.70             -5.65             -5.08              1.88
Chubut              -17.70             -9.08             -9.80             13.08
Entre Rlos          -17.70             -6.57             -7.03              4.46
Formosa             -17.70             -4.49             -4.61              8.94
Jujuy               -17.79            -11.64            -11.24             -2.27
La Pampa            -17.70             26.31             25.48             84.91
La RioJo            -17.70            -19.41            -19.66             -5.89
Mondoza             -17.70             11.42             10.46             18.74
Misionos            -17.70             -2.98             -8.14              6.61
Neuquon             -17.70            -10.11            -10.89              6.64
Rlo Negro           -17.70             12.16             11.60             28.16
Salta               -17.70            -12.77            -18.W0             -5.54
Son Juan            -17.70             -9.44             -9.85              2.72
San Luls            -17.70              4.92              4.01             18.12
Santa Cruz          -17.70             -9.47             -9.70             14.88
Santa Fe            -17.70             -8.19             -8.98              0.80
S. del Estero       -17.70            -11.24            -11.6C             -2.68
Tucumin             -17.70            -16.S11           -16.46             -7.86
TOTAL               -17.70             -7.08             -7.69              8.80
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecretary of Provincial Relations, Sltema de
Informacion Financiers Provincial, Buenos Air" (May 1990).



ANNEX 2
- 42 -                                     Page 6 of 11
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2.2
Porcentage Increaso by Type of Transfer to the Provinceo
January through December: 1988-1989
Provinces     Revenue   Disc.  Ebrg.  Financial   SUB-        Social  Provincial  TOTAL
Sharing   Grant   Fund  Disequil. TOTAL    Security         Bond
Fund     (Lay    Fund                System
(A.T.N.) 22916)
Buenos Aires    -17.79                              -10.79      -28.66     46.32      1.18
Catamarca      -17.70   150.44             30.08    -10.26      -29.88                4.17
C6rdoba        -17.70                                -9.70      -24.42     11.61    -0.36
Corrlentes     -17.70    75.02   -82.66   68.86      -8.85      -28.48                8.79
Chaco          -17.70            -91.82    25.86    -6.65       -28.68     29.23      1.88
Chubut         -17.70                     102.87    -9.08       -24.61               18.68
Entre RIo*     -17.70            -82.29              -0.57      -29.07    239.96      4.40
Formosa        -17.70   100.84   -91.86    92.25    -4.49       -24.84     29.28      8.64
Jujuy          -17.70   148.94              7.68    -11.04      -28.10     28.87     -2.27
La Pampa       -17.70                                26.01      -30.79     29.88     84.91
La RIoja       -17.70   -45.73              7.40    -19.41      -29.28               -5.39
Mendoza         -17.70           -81.64              11.42      -28.52     78.88    18.74
Misiones       -17.70            -92.03   103.09    -2.98       -29.59    168.48      6.61
Neuquen        -17.70                      72.03    -10.11      -84.84                5.04
R-o Negro       -17.70                               12.15      -81.16               26.16
Salta          -17.70  -27.96               3.19   -12.77       -28.67     29.16    -6.54
Son Juan       -17.70   133.56             18.69    -9.44       -28.87                2.72
San Luis        -17.70   27.81             92.68      4.92      -29.15     29.89     13.12
Santa Cruz     -17.70                     102.87    -9.47       -81.61     78.31     14.38
Santa Fe       -17.70            -81.39              -8.10      -34.07     25.08      0.30
S. del Estero  -17.70   284.74             67.12    -11.24      -29.60     69.86    -2.63
Tucumin         -17.70  -82.28              4.81   -16.11       -82.27    851.91    -7.86
TOTAL           -17.70   103.39   -84.66    84.92    -7.08      -29.29     82.26      3.30
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecrotary of Provincial Relations, Sistema de Informacion
Financiors Provincial, Buenos Aires (May 1990).



ANNEX 2
- 43 -                                       Page 7 of 11
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2.8
Revenue Sharing and Othor Klnds of Transfers to the Province.
Percentage of Total
Provinces          Revonue  Revenue Sharing   Revonue Sharing   Revenue Sharing
Sharing  plus all other    plus all other    plus all other
Transfers except  Transfers and      Transfers plus
Social Security   Social Security   Bonds and Advances
1986     1989     1988     1989      1988      1989
Buenos Aires         22.00    19.69    16.81    19.90    19.06    20.09       19.67
Catamarca             2.76      2.70     2.61     2.69     2.60      2.62      2.64
C6rdobe               8.0W    7.92       7.70     7.96     7.74      8.18      7.84
Corrientes            3.72      8.87     4.02     8.86     4.00      8.75      8.95
Chaco                 5.66      6.15     6.22     6.08     6.17      5.18      6.08
Chubut                1.58      1.44     1.41     1.42      1.40     1.89      1.52
Entre Rlos            4.89      4.70     4.72     4.69     4.72      4.64      4.69
Formosa               2.66      8.74     8.84     8.87      8.79     8.71      8.70
Jujuy                 2.85      8.14     8.00     3.10     2.08      3.12      2.96
La Pampa              1.83      1.71     2.82     1.69      2.29     1.71      2.28
La Rloja              2.07      2.82     2.44     2.79      2.48     2.72      2.49
Mendoza               4.18      6.57     6.68     6.58     6.67      6.66      6.37
Misiones              8.81      8.86     8.61     8.81      8.47     8.29      8.89
Neuquen               1.74      1.59     1.64     1.67      1.52     1.58      1.66
Rlo Negro             2.68      2.29     2.76     2.27      2.74     2.21      2.70
Salto                 8.84      5.18     4.81     6.08     4.76      5.09      4.65
San Juan              8.89      8.45     8.86     8.44      8.86     8.86      8.84
San Luis              2.29      2.16     2.42     2.16     2.48      2.18      2.89
Santa Cruz            1.58      1.44     1.40     1.42      1.89     1.42      1.58
Santa Fe              8.95      8.28     6.19     8.87     8.25      8.49      8.24
S. del Estero         4.14      8.86     8.69     8.84      8.68     8.86      8.64
Tucumin               4.77      6.14     5.64     6.18      6.54     6.08      6.40
TOTAL               108.08   10.00   108.6    100.00   100.00   108.W8   108.00
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecretary of Provincial Relations, Slstema de
Informacion Financiors Provincial, Buenos Aires (May 1996).



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 11
- 44 -
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2.4
Revenue Sharing and Other Kinds of Transfors to tho Provinces Excluding Royalties
January through December 1988
Millions of US$ of December 1989 (a)
Provinces     Revenue  Emerg.   Disc. Financial   SUB-        Socitl      SUB-  Provincial  TOTAL
Sharing    Fund    Grant Diseqult. TOTAL    Security    TOTAL         Bond
(LOy    Fund     Fund                System
22918)  (A.T.N.)
Buenos Aires    656.0       0.0      0.1      0.0   656.1          21.1    668.2       19.8    676.1
Catamarca        67.1       0.0      2.0     4.6       78.7         1.6     76.2       0.0      75.2
C6rdobs          216.8      0.0      0.0      0.0    218.8         6.2    222.6        16.6    288.1
Corrientes        90.6      9.2      2.8      8.1    106.6          1.9    107.6       0.0    107.6
Chaco            121.5      9.4      0.0      9.6    140.5         1.4    141.9         6.1    147.0
Chubut            88.5      0.0      0.0      0.7      89.2        0.8      89.8        0.0     89.8
Entre Rio.       118.9      8.4      0.9     0.0    128.8           2.7    131.0        1.9    182.9
Formosa           88.7      9.6      1.9      2.1    102.1          0.8    102.7        8.7    108.4
Jujuy             69.2      6.0      1.1     15.8      86.6         1.0      86.7       2.9     89.6
La Pampa          46.7      6.6      0.9      0.6      46.7        0.4      47.1        1.9     49.1
La Rioja         560.4      6.0    16.0    11.5        76.9         1.1      78.0      0.6      78.0
Mendoza          101.8     60.5      0.6     0.6    162.1          8.8      166.9      8.1     169.0
Misiones          80.6      9.7      0.0      1.7      91.8        0.7       92.8       1.7     94.3
Neuquen           42.8      0.6      0.6      1.1      43.4        0.6      48.9       0.6      43.9
Rio Negro         81.6      0.6      1.6      0.6      62.5        0.8      63.8       0.       683.3
Salts             93.4      6.6      9.1     87.6     140.0        2.1      142.0      8.9    146.0
San Juan          82.8     0.6       8.0      8.7     94.1         2.1      98.2       0.6      98.2
San Luis          66.8      6.6      1.7      1.3      68.6         1.8     60.2       2.8      62.6
Sante Cruz        88.6      0.6      0.6     0.7      39.2         0.4      89.7       1.2      40.8
Santa Fe         217.7      8.6     0.6       0.6    226.3          7.7    284.0        9.4    248.4
S. del Estero   100.7       0.6      1.6      8.2     106.6         1.9    107.3       8.4    116.8
Tucumhn          116.9      6.0    18.1    88.7    167.7           8.7      171.4      1.4    172.8
________________________________________________________._____________________________________________
TOTAL           2482.0   106.8    54.4    139.7   2781.8          88.9   2795.2       72.4    2887.7
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecretary of Provincial Relations, Sistema do Informacion Financiers
Provincial, Buenos Aires (May 1990).
Note: (a) Free exchange rate USS = 1,110.48 Australes. Adjusted to real values on monthly basis. For
this reason, the values will not coincide exactly with those of other tabloe adjusted on an
annual basis.



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2.5
Revonue Sharing and Other Kinds of Transfers to the Provinces Excluding Royalties
January through December 1989
Millions of USS of December 1989 (a)
Provinces      Revenue   Disc.  Emorg. Financial Sesmic    SUB-   Social    SUB-    Advances Provincial TOTAL
Sharing   Grant   Fund  Disequil. A Natural TOTAL  Security  TOTAL   on Revenue   Bond
Fund    (Ley    Fund   Disaster             System             Sharing
(A.T.N.) 22916)             Fund
Buenos Aires      440.3    10.7      0.6    10.4       16.6    477.3    16.1    492.4         61.1      29.0    582.6
Catamrca           55.2     4.9      0.0      8.0       6.0     66.1      1.1      67.2        7.6       3.8      78.3
C6rdoba           178.0    12.5      0.6      4.8      0.0    195.3       4.7    260.0        20.5      11.7    232.3
Corri;ntes         74.6     4.9      1.6      5.0      16.0    102.1      1.4    103.4         8.6       4.9    117.6
Chaco             100.0     3.7      0.8    12.0       16.0    132.6      1.0    133.6         9.6       6.6    149.8
Chubut             31.7     2.8      0.0      1.4      0.0      35.7      0.4      38.1        6.8       2.1      45.0 6n
Entre RIoz         97.9     1.8      1.5      2.8     18.0    119.9       1.9    121.8        10.6       6.5    138.9            a
Formosa            73.0      8.7     0.8      4.0      16.6     97.6      0.4      97.9        6.9       4.8    169.6
Jujuy              67.0     2.7      0.0    16.5       0.6      76.2      0.7      76.9        e.9       3.7     87.5
La Pamps           87.7     4.2      0.0      1.0      16.6     58.8      0.3      59.1        4.8       2.5     66.2
La Rioja           41.5      9.1     0.0    12.3       0.0      62.0      0.8      62.8        8.3       2.7      73.8
Mendoza            83.6     3.6      9.3      2.3      70.7    189.5      2.7    172.2        11.1       6.6    188.8
Misiones           66.2     2.7      0.8      3.4      16.6     89.2      0.5      89.7        6.6       4.4    100.6
Neuquen            34.8     2.3      0.0      1.8       0.0     39.0      0.3      39.3        4.6       2.3     48.1
RIo Negro          50.6     7.1      0.0      1.4      11.0     70.1      0.6      76 7        5.9       3.3      79.9
Salto              76.9     6.6      0.0    38.7        0.0    122.1      1.5    123.6         9.2       5.1    137.9
San Juan           67.8     7.1      0.0    10.4       0.0      86.2      1.5      86.7        768       4.6      98.8
San Luis           45.8     2.2      0.0      2.6      11.6     61.6      1.1      62.6        6.1       3.0      70.8
Santa Cruz         31.7     2.4      0.0      1.4      0.6      36.6      0.3      85.8        8.8       2.1      48.7
Santa Fe          179.2     6.8      1.6      4.8      16.6    207.9      6.0    213.0        19.4      11.8    244.2
S. del Estero      82.8     5.4      6.o      5.4      0.0      93.6      1.3      94.9        7.5       S.5    107.8
Tucumdn            95.4     4.9      o.0    40.4       6.6    140.7       2.5    143.2        10.6       6.3    160.1
TOTAL            2601.5   110.6    18.3   198.4    221.0   2537.8    45.2   2583.0           247.4    131.9   2962.4
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecretary of Provincial Relations, Sistma de Informacion Financier& Provincial, Buenos
Aires (May 1990).
Note: (a) See note (a) of Table 2.4.



ANNEX 2
- 46 -                                         Page 10 of 11
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2.6
Revenue Sharing and Other Klnds of Transfer* to the Provinces Excluding Royalties
January through December 1988
Percentage of Total
Provinces     Revenue  Emerg.    Disc.  Financial  SUB-    Social    SUB-   Provincial  TOTAL
Sharing   Fund     Grant  Disequil.  TOTAL  Security   TOTAL       Bond
(Ley     Fund       Fund           System
22916) (A.T.N.)
Buenos Aires    22.00      0.00     0.19     0."      19.69    88.07    19.90      27.89    20.09
Catamarca        2.76      0.00     8.60     8.29      2.70     2.89     2.69      0.00      2.62
Cordobn          8.90      0.00     0.00     0.00      7.92     9.71     7.96      14.81     8.18
Corriontes       8.72      8.71     5.18     2.19      8.87     2.99     8.85       0.00     8.75
Chaco            6.00      8.90     0.00     6.86      6.15     2.19     6.08       7.06     6.18
Chubut           1.68      0.00     0.00     0.49      1.44     0.89     1.42       0.00     1.89
Entre RIos       4.89      8.00     1.76     0.00     4.70      4.25     4.69       2.62     4.64
Formosa          8.e6      9.00     8.42     1.49      8.74     0.90     8.67       5.14     8.71
Jujuy            2.86      0.00     2.03    10.97      8.14     1.62     8.10       4.02     8.12
La Pampa         1.88      0.00     1.76     0.00      1.71     0.68     1.69       2.65     1.71
La Rioja         2.07      0.00    27.56     8.23      2.82     1.69     2.79       0.00     2.72
Mendoza          4.18    48.01      0.00     0.00      5.57     5.94     5.58       4.26     6.56
Misiones         8.81      9.20     0.00     1.21      8.86     1.17     8.81       2.88     8.29
Neuquen          1.74      0.00     0.00     0.77      1.59     0.80     1.57       0.00     1.65
Rlo Negro        2.63      0.00     1.91     0.00      2.29     1.28     2.27       0.00     2.21
Salta            8.84      0.00    16.77    26.83      5.18     8.24     6.08       5.42     6.09
San Juan         8.89      0.00     5.60     6.26      8.45     8.22     8.44       0.00     8.86
San Luis         2.29      0.00     8.16     0.98      2.16     2.58     2.16       8.21     2.18
Santa Cruz       1.68      0.00     0.00     0.49      1.44     0.69     1.42       1.68     1.42
Santa Fe         8.95      8.12     0.00     0.00      8.28    12.09     8.87      18.04     8.49
S. del Estero    4.14      0.00     2.97     2.80      8.86     2.92     8.84       4.72     8.86
Tucumin          4.77      0.00    24.18    27.71     6.14      6.76     6.18       1.92     6.08
TOTAL          100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00    100.00   100.00
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecretary of Provincial Relations, Sistema de Informacion
Financiera Provincial, Buenos Aires (May 1990).



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2.7
Revenue Sharing and Other Kinds of Transfers to the Provinces Excluding Royalties
January through December 1989
Percentage ot Total
Provinces       Revenue   Disc.      Emerg.  Financial   Sesmic    SUB-      Social     SUB-   Advances Provincial  TOTAL
Sharing    Grvnt      Fund  Disequil.   & Nat.    TOTAL    Security   TOTAL   on Revenue  Bond
Fund      (LOy      Fund   Disaster              System             Sharing
(A.T.N.)   22916)              Fund
Buenos Aires       22.0W      9.63      0.00      5.60      7.25     19.81     33.38     19.0B     24.71     22.00     19.67
Catamarca          2.76      4.43      0.0W       3.17      O.00      2.61      2.37      2.60      3.03      2.78      2.84
Cordoba            8.90      11.81     0.00       2.SS      0.00      7.70     10.38      7.74      8.28      8.90      7.84
Corrlontes          3.72      4.45      9.78      2.65      7.26      4.02      3.02      4.00      3.48      3.72      3.95
Chaco               5.00      3.37      4.75      6.39      7.25      6.22      2.21      6.17      3.88      6.00      5.08
Chubut              1.68      2.31      0.00      0.74      0.00      1.41      0.95      1.40      2.75      1.68      1.62
Entre R1os          4.89      1.67      9.17      1.40      7.26      4.72      4.27      4.72      4.28      4.89      4.69
Formos              3.86      3.37      4.76      2.12      7.25      3.84      0.96      3.79      2.78      3.85      3.70
Jujuy              2.85      2.40       0.00      8.78      0.00      3.00      1.65      2.98      2.78      2.84      2.96
La Pampa            1.88      3.76      0.00      0.64      7.25      2.32      0.87      2.29      1.84      1.88      2.23
La RloJa            2.07      7.36     O.00       6.65      0.00      2.44      1.70      2.43      3.38      2.08      2.49
Mendoza            4.18       3.30     67.04      1.20     32.00      6.68      8.00      6.87      4.48      4.18      6.37
Misiones            3.31      2.44      4.76      1.82      7.26      3.61      1.16      3.47      2.61      3.31      3.39
Neuquen             1.74      2.10      0.00      0.98      0.00      1.54      0.74      1.62      1.81      1.74      1.68
R1o Negro           2.63      6.42      0.00      0.72      6.00      2.76      1.24      2.74      2.38      2.53      2.70
Salto               3.84      6.94      0.00     20.52      0.00      4.81      3.27      4.78      3.74      3.84      4.85
San Juan            3.39      6.42      0.00      6.49      0.00      3.36      3.26      3.38      3.08      3.39      3.34
San Luis            2.29      1.98      0.00      1.33      5.00      2.42      2.63      2.43      2.06      2.29      2.39
Santa Cruz          1.58      2.18      0.00      0.74      0.00      1.40      0.87      1.39      3.68      1.68      1.58
Santa Fe            8.96      6.71      9.78      2.56      7.25      8.19     11.17      8.25      7.83      8.95      8.24
S. del Estero       4.14      4.89      0.00      2.85      0.00      3.69      2.90      3.68      3.01      4.14      3.64
Tucumin             4.77      4.47      0.00     21.42      0.00      6.54      6.62      6.54      4.29      4.78      5.40    
TOTAL             100.00    169.00    100.00    100.00    100.69    100.10 100.00    169.69    160.00    169.69    1W9.00              o
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecret.ary of Provincial Relations, Sistema de Informacion Financiera Provincial, Buenos
Aires (May 1990).



- 48 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Government Finance
Operational Definition of the Current Account Surplus and Other Indicators
1.          In defining current account surplus, discretionary grants of any
type (i.e., ATN, FDR, FEDEI, etc.) are not counted as current revenue, but all
automatic revenue sharing is counted as current revenue, including
coparticipacion, royalties, coparticipacion vial, etc.3 See Table 3.1. In
other words, only automatic or formula driven revenue sharing will be counted
as current revenue. Current account surplus is, then, equivalent to current
account surplus without grants or own saving (item 13 in Table 3.1). This
table also defines the other basic indicators used in this report.
Insritutional Structure of Provincial Goverrnent
2.          In Argentina's Federal System, the institutional structure of each
province is different, but all are composed of the same general institutional
elements:
--General Administration (Administracion General)
--Central Administration (Administracion Central)
--Consolidated Decentralized Entities  (Organismos
Descentralizados Consolidados). These normally have some
administrative autonomy, may have some independent sources of
revenue, but are still included in the provincial budget.
--Special Accounts (Cuentas Especiales). These are separate
accounts established by law in which revenues from sources
specified in the law can be transferred for uses that are also
specified in the law. Although both the sources and the
authorized users of the resources are defined by the law, the
province also may transfer additional resources to these accounts
from the general fund. These special accounts tend to be much
less important at the provincial level than the national level.
--Unconsolidated Decentralized Entities (Organismos Descentralizados No
Consolidados). These have some administrative autonomy, normally have
their own sources of revenues such as fees, tariffs and taxes, but do
not appear in the budget of the General Administration, although their
3      All definitions are in accord with IMF guidelines:  International
Monetary Fund, A Manual on Government Finance Statistics, Washington, D.C., 1986.



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
individual budgets normally appear in the provincial government's budget
document.
--Provincial Public Enterprises (Empresas Provinciales). These are
public enterprises in the usual sense of the term.   Their budgets and
financial statements normally do not appear in the provincial
government's budget documents.
--Social Security Entities (Organismos de Prevision Social)
Eventually the accounting system for the public sector should show the "gross"
accounts for each of these elements of the public sector for each level of
government. The accounts should be consolidated for the current account
surplus, total deficit/surplus and investment at each level of government and,
then, for the public sector as a whole.   The development of consolidated
public sector accounts for the entire provincial public sector (including the
unconsolidated decentralized entities and public enterprises) is essential to
better fiscal management at the national and sub-national levels. See Annex
6, "Institutional Development".
3.          Although all of the provinces have this basic structure, there is
no consistency in the way in which different provinces treat the same type of
activity. For example, the water companies and other public utilities are
treated as Consolidated Decentralized Entities in Salta, Chubut and Santiago
del Estero, but as Unconsolidated Decentralized Entities in Buenos Aires and
Santa Fe. Cordoba's water company is a public enterprise.
Evolution of the Current Account SurRluses of the Provinces: 1983-89
4.          Table 3.1 shows that own saving has been quite variable over the
years, ranging from a deficit of US$ 1.6 billion in 1984 to surpluses of about
US$ 300 million per year in 1985 and 1986. These data also point to some
encouraging trends. Despite 1989 being one of the most traumatic years in
Argentine history, with hyperinflation during the middle of the year, current
revenues increased by 13 percent as compared to the 1981-1986 average, while
current expenditures increased only five percent when compared to this
average, and they decreased by 12 percent from the previous year. This
resulted in a small 1989 current account surplus and contributed to a
substantial reduction of the overall need for financing. It should be noted,
however, that these improvements resulted in a sharp drop in 1989 for gross
fixed capital formation and that the net decrease in short term assets and
liabilities, although less than half that of the previous year, remained high
(over 60 percent of the need for financing). Further analysis of these
trends, and the potential impact of the project, are presented in Annex 5.



- 50 -                                      Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3.1
Revenues, Expenditures, and Financing. All Provinces (a)
Millions of USS of December 1989 (b)
1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989
1.      CURRENT REVENUES                       3,739.7 4,128.1  5,693.1  6,645.8  6,133.8  5,894.9  5,633.7
1.1.    Provincial Sources                     1,910.2  2,445.7  2,452.4  3,006.2  2,674.2  2,390.7  2,066.7
1.1.1.     Tax                                 1,537.8  2,034.7  2,105.2  2,505.6  2,240.2  1,969.9  1,624.4
1.1.2.     Non-tax                               372.4   410.9   347.2   500.7   434.0   420.8   442.3
1.2.    National Sources                       1,829.6  1,682.5  3,240.7  3,63.5  3,459.6  3,504.2  3,567.1
1.2.1.      Federal Revenue Sharing (c)        1,255.4  1,148.1  2,553.5  2,824.3  2,751.4  2,471.4  2,900.7
1.2.2.      Highway fund                         182.7   174.8   248.3   250.4   225.4   246.2    87.0
1.2.3.      RoyaLties                            379.2   348.0   423.9   535.3   430.5    504.5   313.3
1.2.4.     Others                                 12.3    11.6    15.1    20.6    52.4   282.1    266.1
2.       CURRENT EXPENDITURES                  4,821.5  5,755.3  5,435.8  6,314.1  6,575.8  6,306.0  5,626.4
2.1.    Personnel                              2,842.9  3,664.5  3,459.2  3,805.1  4,110.5  3,787.8  3,334.5
2.2.    Good and services                        480.6   606.3   635.1    837.8   835.8   780.5   678.4
2.3.     Interest payments                        34.9     11.5    30.1      38.0    62.2    212.3   267.4
2.5.    Transfers                              1,463.1  1,473.1  1,311.4  1,633.2  1,567.3  1,525.5  1,346.1
2.5.1.      Municipalities                       281.6   438.4   483.4   593.9   672.3   675.2   606.6
2.5.2.      Provincial Enterprises                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     34.5    154.7   125.3
2.5.3.      Social Security                      689.8   611.2   293.5   321.1    309.1    261.2   266.6
2.5.4.      Other Transfers                      491.7   423.5   534.5   718.3   551.5   434.5   347.6
3.       CAPITAL REVENUES                         19.7    45.8    23.8    51.3        52.1      38.7    24.9
4.       GRANTS (Current and Capital)          2,355.3  1,738.0   288.0   504.5   622.2   274.6   278.5
4.1.    Current (Aportes del Tesoro Nacional) 2,136.0  1,606.7    67.4   213.6   283.8    40.3           69.2
4.2.     Capital                                 219.4   131.3   220.7   290.9   338.5    234.3   209.3
4.2.1.      Regional DeveLopment Fund (FDR)       59.0    38.5    59.6    94.2        62.9    36.9        8.5
4.2.2.      Electricity Fund (FEDEI)              14.7    14.9    31.8    42.0        36.8      23.7      4.8
4.2.3.      Other                                145.6    77.9   129.3   154.7   238.9    173.7   196.0
5.       CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                  1,535.4  1,590.2  1,320.0  1,819.2  2,102.4  1,626.6  1,064.5
5.1.    Real Investement                       1,457.3  1,432.2  1,212.9  1,653.1  1,983.2  1,522.9   975.3
5.2.     Investement existing assets              19.4    22.3    23.0    28.6    25.3          15.5    10.3
5.3.     Financial investement                    58.8   135.7    84.1    137.4    93.9         88.2    78.9
Notes: (a) Includes Municipality of Buenos Aires and Tierra de Fuego.
(b) Adjusted to real values on an annual basis.  For this reason, the values wiLl not coincide exactly
with those of other tables adjusted on a monthly basis.
(c) Ad hoc revenue sharing during 1985-1987 treated as Federal Revenue Sharing.



-51 -                                       Annex  3
Page 4 of 4
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3.1 (Continued)
Revenues, Expenditures, and Financing. All Provinces (a)
Millions of USS of December 1989 (b)
1983     1984     1985      1986     1987     1988      1989
6.       TOTAL REVENUES AND GRANTS (1 + 3 + 4) 6,114.8  5,911.9  6,004.9  7,201.5  6,808.2  6,208.1  5,937.1
7.       TOTAL EXPENDITURES (2 + 5)             6,356.9  7,345.6  6,755.9  8,133.3  8,678.2  7,932.6  6,690.8
8.       OVERALL DEFICIT/SURPLUS                  242.2   1433.7    750.9    931.8   1870.0   1724.5    753.7
OR NEED FOR FINANCING (7 - 6)
9.       NET BORROWING (10 - 11)                  430.7    577.2    326.8    533.0  1,093.1    723.4    446.4
10.      FINANCING                                492.8    601.8    422.6    628.7  1,188.9    819.2    542.2
10.1.       Use of credit                          41.5      53.4     43.4    133.2    335.0    342.2    210.7
10.2.       Housing Finance Fund (FONAVI)         450.9   547.5    378.0    494.4    752.2    475.4    319.2
10.3.       Others                                  0.3       0.9      1.2       1.2    101.7      1.6      12.3
10.4.       From previous exercises
11.      AMORTIZATION OF THE DEBT                  62.0      24.5     95.8     95.8      95.8     95.8      95.8
12.      NET VARIATION IN SHORT TERM
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ( 9 - 8 )         188.6  (856.4)  (424.1)  (398.8)  (776.9)(1,001.1)  (307.3)
13.      CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WITHOUT       (1,081.7)t1,627.2)   257.3    331.6  (442.0)  (411.2)         7.4
GRANTS (OWN SAVINGS) (1-2)
14.      CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WITH           1,273.6    110.8   545.3    836.1    180.3   (136.6)   285.8
RECEIPTS OF CURRENT GRANTS (SAVINGS)
(1 - 2 + 4)
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsecretary of Provinciat Relations, Sistema de Informacion Financiera
Provincial, Buenos Aires (May 1990).
Notes: (a) IncLudes Municipality of Buenos Aires end Tierra de Fuego.
(b) Adjusted to real values on an annual basis. For this reason, the values will not coincide exactly
with those of other tables adjusted on a monthly basis.
(c) Ad hoc revenue sharing during 1985-1987 treated as Federal Revenue Sharing.



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Action and Investment Plans (FAIP)
Objective
1.          The main objective of the FAIP is to show how provincial revenues
will be raised and expenditures controlled to produce a current account
surplus to be used for new investments (including costs of operation,
maintenance and debt service).   The first two parts of the FAIP deal with
generating the current account surplus, and the third, with the criteria for
investing this surplus wisely.
2.          The FAIP should ideally cover centralized and decentralized
administrations of the provinces and municipalities, as well as their public
enterprises. See Annex 3, paras. 2-3. Although the entire sub-national
public sector should be covered eventually, effort should focus initially on
the General Administration (Central Administration and Consolidated
Decentralized Entities) of the provincial government.
Increasing Provincial Own-source Revenues
3.          This section should cover general measures to increase the
efficiency in the collection of tax and non-tax revenues, such as improved
accounting controls and information, computer systems and software, etc. Ways
of improving human resources for revenue collection should also be addressed,
such as via training programs, recruitment from other provincial government
departments, training programs, etc. In some cases, it may be more efficient
to contract services from the private sector, such as in the case of
collection of delinquent accounts or for billing. (See Chapter III of the
PGFS).
Controlling ExRenditures and Increasing Efficiency
4.          The FAIP should show how public resources will be allocated with
greater efficiency. Expenditures on personnel, goods and services, and
transfers should receive special attention, due to their great importance.
(See Chapter V of the PGFS.)
Investment Priorities and Justification
5.          This section should show all of the elements necessary for project
appraisal as defined in the Operations Manual for the Provinces. See Annex 10
for a detailed description of these requirements. It is expected that the
quality of provincial investment planning will improve over time. Initially,
simple investments, primarily for maintenance operations and rehabilitation,
are expected to be predominant. As the provincial capacity to plan and
program investments is strengthened through technical assistance financed



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
under the project, the quality of investment priorities and justification,
within and between sectors, should be emphasized and enhanced.
Baseline Projections and Estimates of Project Impacts
6.          Finally, each FAIP should show baseline projections of revenues
and expenditures (i.e., projections without the proposed project) and also
projections of the impact of the project on revenues (e.g., increased tax
revenues or user fees) and expenses (e.g., maintenance and other costs of
operation).   For example, an irrigation project would increase future
production and, thus, tax returns, and also require expenditures for operation
and maintenance.
Debt CaDacitv
7.          The FAIP should demonstrate that the province has sufficient debt
capacity as defined by the project financial performance criteria (see para.
2.11 and Annex 5).



- 54 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assessment of Financial Impact of the Project
and the Debt CaDacity of the Provinces
Financial Impact
1.          As the amount and velocity of disbursements for civil works and
goods will hinge on the capacity of provinces to generate current account
surpluses for subsidiary loan counterpart funding, it is important to do
simulations of this capacity. Using the 1989 budget estimates for all
provinces as a baseline, the impact of different percentage increases in
provincial tax and non-tax revenues and of reductions in expenditures on the
current account surplus of each province may be estimated (Table 5.1). The
first column in Table 5.1 shows the current account surplus without grants
(i.e., own-saving) of each province in 1989. The remaining columns present
the change in this surplus given the percentage "improvements": increases in
revenues and reductions in expenditures. For example, the second column of
Table 5.1 shows the current account surpluses of the provinces given a 10%
increase in revenues and a 10% reduction in expenditures. The impact of such
a small relative change on total current account surplus is quite striking for
provinces with relatively minor current account disequilibriums. For example,
this slight improvement pushes the Provinces of Buenos Aires from a US$4
million current account deficit to a US$163 million surplus. However, such
small relative improvments are not sufficient to put provinces with very high
current account deficits (e.g., Santa Fe, La Rioja, Catamarca and Jujuy) "in
the black."
2.          Summing the provinces with current account deficit with those with
surpluses underestimates the total potential for servicing debt due to the
reform efforts, because only those with surpluses will be able to effectively
participate in the investment program. For this reason, Table 5.2 shows the
increment of current account surplus for only those provinces with surpluses
in 1989: an improvement of 10% results in a current account saving for those
provinces with surpluses of US$832 million (Second Column of Table 5.2), up
from US$360 million in 1989. Improvements of 10% are not at all unrealistic.
They would depend first on the political will to undertake the reforr. strategy
recommended here, as well as on technical assistance in implementing the
proposed financial management improvements.
3.          The increase in current account savings due to a 10% improvement
in financial management alone (about US$472 million) would be sufficient to
cover about one-half of total real investment in 1989 (US$975 million, down
about two thirds from the five-year average due to hyperinflation). The
modest capital revenues and existing grant funds could also be used to help
finance provincial investments. Or, provinces could finance part of their
investment program with the current account savings and part with long-term



- 55 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
borrowings, if available. A rough estimate of the total impact of this
improvment on the capacity to operate, maintain and service the debt of an
infrastructure investment is the present value of this annual increase in
current account surplus over the term of the loan (15 years). The present
value of an annuity of US$472 million at a annual rate of discount of 12% for
17 years is US$3.4 billion.
4.          As noted in Annex 3, there are signs of encouraging trends in
provincial financial status since 1987. A brief indication of how these
trends relate to the potential financial impact of the proposed project is
presented below.
(a)     The new revenue sharing law became effective in 1988, after a
hiatus in the revenue sharing system from 1985 to 1987 (see Annex
2).   The PGFS concludes (Chapter VII, para. 7.10) that the new
revenue sharing system is a significant improvement over the
previous, predominantly ad hoc arrangement for intergovernmental
fiscal transfers, in that the new system provides transfers that
are predictable and transparent for both the Central and
Provincial Governments. Despite a sharp drop in grants in 1988-
89, provincial savings and own savings improved over this period.
This indicates that provinces are responding to the improved
discipline of the revenue sharing system (as well as closer
control over Provincial Banks, as noted below) and are beginning
to implement current revernue and expenditure reforms, as
recommended in the PGFS, Chapters III and IV.
(b)     Long term borrowing (greater than one year), as reflected by net
borrowing, as well as short term borrowing, as partially reflected
by the net variation in short term assets and liabilities, have
fallen sharply. This indicates that the stricter controls by the
Central Bank on rediscounts and overdrafts by provincial banks
are taking effect. These controls have limited the capacity of
the provincial banks to provide loans and overdraft facilities to
provincial governments, as they have done on a significant scale
in the past (see Section B of Chapter V, PGFS). Also, Provinces
have not been able to obtain substantial credit from commercial
financial institutions. As noted in para. 1.25, strict control of
the provincial banks by the Central Bank is a fundamental
prerequisite for implementing the strategy for reform proposed in
the PGFS.
(c)     Although borrowing has fallen, the most recent data (Table 5.2,
indicate that there is a substantial potential for provinces to
leverage their current account savings to increase their
investments and meet their need for financing. In 1989, 12 of the
23 provinces (including the Municipality of Buenos Aires) produced
current account surpluses (without grants), compared to only seven
in 1987. Summing the 1989 current savings of these 12 provinces
provides a total own saving of US$ 360 million, 22 percent greater
than the total net borrowing for that year. This indicates that



- 56 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
the recammendations of the PGFS regarding current account
discipline and financing of provincial investment programs are
realistic and achievable. It also indicates that provincial
counterpart funding for proposed sub-loans should not provide a
significant obstacle to project implementation, and that through
technical assistance and the FAIP process, project benefits may be
extended to provinces presently having current account deficits.
Debt Capacitv
5.          After determining the current account surplus, the next step is to
determine whether the amount eligible using this criteria falls within the
limits for debt capacity established in para. 2.11. According to the
fragmentary data available, the total long-term debt of the provinces is quite
low, as they have not have access to such credit for a long time, "borrowing"
more from suppliers and on a very short term basis. See Chapter V of the
PGFS. The information system on the debt of provincial government should be
improved to provide detailed information on all of the sources of short- and
longer-term financing, as well as guarantees (see Annex 6).



- 57-                                       ANNEX 5
ARGENTINA                                        Page 4 of 6
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5.1
Sensitivity Analysis of the Impact of Percentage Increases In Revenues
and Reductions In Expenditures
Current Account Surplus without Grants (Own Savings)
by Provincial Group and Province
Millions of US$ of December 1989 (a)
Groups                                      Impact of Percentago
Provinces                     Increases in Revenues and Reductions In Expenditures
1989     10.0X    11.0X    12.0X    13.0%    14.0%    15.0%
TOTAL (b)               17.8    020.4    680.7    741.0    801.8    861.7    922.0
ADVANCED               (53.2)   824.4    862.2    899.9    487.7    476.6    618.2
Federal Capital          83.8   187.9   198.8    208.8    219.2    229.6    240.0
Buenos Aires            (3.8)   162.8    179.4   196.1   212.8   229.4   246.1
Cordoba                 26.6     68.1     70.1     74.1     78.0      82.0     88.0
Mendoza                 21.7     42.4     44.4     46.6     48.6      50.6     62.7
Santa Fe              (181.4)  (134.8)  (130.1)  (125.6)  (120.8)  (116.2)  (111.6)
LOW DENSITY            126.4   191.1   197.6   204.1   210.6   217.0   228.5
Chubut                  (2.2)     8.6      9.7    10.8    11.8    12.9    14.0
La Pampa                28.1    81.8      82.7    83.6       84.4     86.8     86.2
Neuquen                 67.7    72.4      78.8    75.3    76.8    78.2    79.7
Rio Negro               58.4    74.9    77.0    79.2    81.8          88.5     85.6
Santa Cruz              (6.6)     8.5      4.4      5.8      6.2       7.1      8.0
INTERMEDIATE            21.2     96.4    108.9    111.4    118.9   128.4   133.9
Entre Rios              15.6     84.6    36.4      88.a     40.2      42.1     44.0
Salta                  (18.2)     7.8      9.4     11.4      18.6     16.5     17.6
San Juan                 4.6     13.7     14.8     15.6      18.4     17.8     18.2
San Luis                22.7     81.8     82.2     88.1     84.0    84.8    86.7
Tucuman                 (8.4)     9.5    11.8      18.1    14.9    16.7    18.6
UNDERDEVELOPED         (77.1)     8.5    17.1    25.6    84.2    42.8          51.8
Catamarca              (84.7)   (27.8)   (26.6)   (26.8)   (26.1)   (24.8)   (2386)
Chaco                    8.4     28.8     24.8     26.3     27.8      29.8     80.8
Corrientes             (11.9)     1.6      2.9      4.2      6.6       6.9      8.2
Formosa                (10.8)    (0.9)     0.1      1.1      2.1       8.1      4.1
Jujuy                  (45.4)   (80.8)   (28.8)   (27.8)   (26.8)   (24.8)   (22.7)
La RioJa               (25.6)   (18.7)   (18.0)   (17.8)   (16.6)   (15.9)   (16.2)
Misiones                21 6     81.8     82.8     88.8      84.2    85.2      86.2
Santiago del Estero     21.2     29.6    80.8    81.1    81.9    82.7          88.6
Source: Ministry of Economy, Subsocretary of Provincial Relations, Sistama de
Informacion Financiers Provincial. Buenos Aires, 1989.
Note: (a)  Value In Australes of December 1989 divided by the commercial rats of
exchange (lUSS * A/. 1,100.48).
(b) Excluding Tierra del Fuego.



ANNEX 5
- 58 -                                     kage 5 of 6
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6.2
Sensltlvity Analysis of the Impact of Porcentage Incroaseo In Revenues
and Reductiono In Expenditures
Currant Account Surplus without Grants (Own Saving)
(For Provinces wIth Surpluses Only)
by Provincial Group and Province, 1989
Millions of US2 of D cember 1989 (a)
Groups                                       Ipact of Percentage
Provinces                     Increass  In Rovenues and Reductions In Expenditures
1989    16.06    11.61   12.61    13.06    14.11   1S.6O
TOTAL (b)              898.2   882.8   884.2   936.9   989.6  1,042.8  1,096.0
ADVANCED               132.6   469.2   492.8   526.4   568.6   591.6   624.7
Federal Capital         88.8   187.9   198.3   208.8   219.2   229.0   240.6
Buenos Aires                    162.8   179.4   196.1   212.8   229.4   246.1
Cordoba                 26.6    66.1    70.1    74.1    78.6    62.6    86.0
Mendoza                 21.7    42.4    44.4    48.5    48.6         60.6    52.7
Santa Fe
LOW DENSITY             134.1   191.1   197.8   264.1   216.6   217.0   223.5
Chubut                            8.6      9.7    16.8    11.8    12.9    14.6
La Pampa                28.1    81.8    32.7    83.6    84.4   38.3   38.2
Neuquen                 57.7    72.4    73.8    76.3    76.8    78.2    79.7
Rio Negro               53.4    74.9    77.0    79.2    81.3    83.5    85.6
Santa Crus                        8.5      4.4      S.8      6.2      7.1      8.0
INTERMEDIATE            42.8    96.4   106.9   111.4   118.9   126.4   188.9
Entre Rios              15.5    84.5    89.4    88.8    40.2    42.1    44.0
Salts                             7.8      9.4    11.4    18.5    15.5    t7.6
San Juan                 4.6    18.7    14.6    15.5    16.4    17.8    18.2
San Luis                22.7    81.8    82.2    88.1    84.6    84.8    85.7
Tucumn                            9.5    11.8    13.1    14.9    16.7    18.5
UNDERDEVELOPED          51.2    85.6    90.4    96.0   101.6   107.2   112.9
Catseaeca
Chaco                    8.4    28.8    24.8    26.8    27.8         29.8    80.8
Corrientes                        1.5      2.9      4.2      6.6      6.9      8.2
Formosa                                    9.1      1.1      2.1      8.1      4.1
Jujuy
La Rioja
Misiones                21.6    81.8    82.8    88.8    84.2    85.2    88.2
Santiago del Eatero     21.2    29.5    80.8    81.1    81.9         82.7    88.6
Source: See Table 5.1.
Note: (a) Value In Australes of Deceber 1989 divided by the comercial rate of
oxchange (1US8 u A/. 1,100.48).
(b) Excluding Tierra del Fuego.



ANN EX 5
- 59                                            Page b of 6
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6.8
Current Account Surplus without Grants (Own saving)
by Provincial Group and Provine-: 1983-1989
Milions of US$ of December 1989 (a)
Groups                  1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989
Provinoes
TOTAL               (1,081.7)(1,827.2)   267.8    331.7   (442.0)  (411.2)        7.4
ADVANCED              (438.3)  (616.6)   132.8    233.6   (168.1)  (336.6)   (53.2)
Federal Capital         (0.9)   (74.1)    93.9    199.0    112.7       69.4      83.8
Buenor Aires          (112.1)   (62.7)    (6.8)    66.2   (129.8)  (186.1)    (3.8)
Cordoba               (107.7)  (162.2)    16.6      28.3    (41.0)   (38.0)    26.6
Mendoza                (56.9)   (79.0)    25.5    (88.1)   (21.1)   (13.1)    21.7
Santa Fe              (160.7)  (268.6)      2.7    (13.9)   (89.1)  (168.8)  (181.4)
LOW DENSITY             49.1    (31.7)   114.1    163.6       84.8     90.6    126.6
Chubut                  12.4     11.0       3.4     16.2    (11.1)      8.1      (2.2)
La Pampa               (24.8)   (30.3)    17.7      14.3      23.8     18.9      23.1
Nouquen                 40.1     26.2      e6.6     98.0      63.8     80.3      57.7
Rio Negro              (10.1)   (43.7)      4.7     (2.0)    (0.8)   (18.4)    53.4
Santa Cruz              31.5      5.1      22.8     27.0       9.1     (0.3)    (5.6)
INTERMEDIATE          (292.9)  (401.9)    47.4    (10.0)  (191.7)   (62.2)    21.2
Entre Rios             (76.3)   (48.2)    39.0      40.6       0.7    (17.1)    16.5
Salta                  (61.7)  (111.9)    (3.6)   (42.2)   (86.0)    11.6    (13.2)
San Juan               (69.6)   (82.6)      4.6     (4.4)    (8.8)   (34.5)       4.6
San Luis               (27.4)   (51.2)    13.1       7.8       2.8     15.1      22.7
Tucuman                (67.9)  (108.0)    (5.7)   (11.7)  (101.4)   (27.2)    (8.4)
UNDERDEVELOPED        (399.6)  (577.0)   (36.5)   (46.3)  (166.8)  (113.0)   (87.1)
Catamarca              (39.2)   (74.0)   (34.7)   (10.1)   (24.7)    (7.7)   (34.7)
Chaco                  (81.2)   (91.3)      7.3     (8.1)   (33.2)   (24.2)       8.4
Corrientes             (50.6)   (t87.9)   (42.7)   (36.1)   (32.4)   (16.3)   (11.9)
Formosa                (56.8)   (72.7)    (1.4)   (12.8)   (16.7)   (28.4)   (10.8)
Jujuy                  (60.7)   (86.1)      1.6      1.5    (26.0)   (35.3)   (46.4)
La Rioja               (31.4)   (52.6)    (9.3)   (28.4)   (66.9)   (27.7)   (26.6)
Misionee               (40.1)   (69.9)      7.4      6.7    (11.5)    (2.2)    21.6
Santiago d^l Fetero   (86.1)   (72.5)    17.8       20.2      16.9     17.2      21.2
Te-rra del Fuego        16.4     19.9      17.6     22.8      27.7     10.6      (9-9)
Source: See Table 6.1.
Note: (a) Value In Australea of Dee-mber 1989 divided by the commercial rate of
exchange (lUSS = A/.1,110.48).



- 60 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Description of Project Comnonents
A. Institutional Development
1.          The PGFS made a number of specific recommendations for a strategy
to implement reforms at the Central and Provincial levels of government. To be
successful, implementation must be actively pursued by both levels. Project
implementation would require strong technical and management skills at the
Central (CEU) and Provincial Government (PEU) levels; these requirements are
detailed in Annex 11. The present Annex presents guidelines for longer-term
institutional development that would be initiated under the proposed project
as the first stage of a medium-term strategy for structural reforms in
intergovernmental financial relationships.
Central Government
2.          The elements of this component at the Central Government level
cover four basis areas: monitoring the revenue sharing system; analysis of
the comparative advantage of each level of government in the financing and
delivery of public infrastructure and services; implementation of provincial
financial management information system; and development of a long-term
strategy for sustainable financing of sub-national governments' expenditures.
3.          Monitoring of the Revenue Sharing System.  Although the current
Revenue Sharing System (RSS -- sistema de coparticipacion), regulated under
the December 1987 legislation, may be criticized on several grounds, it is a
vast improvement over the chaotic transfer system prevailing before it went
into effect in 1988. To its merit, the current RSS fully meets two of the
criteria for intergovernmental fiscal relations recommended in the PGFSA1, in
that it provides shared revenues that are transparent and predictable for both
Central and Provincial Governments. The RSS also appears to be fiscally
sustainable, although significant criticisms may be made regarding the
system's equity, in that its inter-jurisdictional redistribution of revenues
results in a flow of potential resources away from provinces with the greatest
number of households with unsatisfied basic needs. In addition, to the extent
that all provinces recognize that national revenue sharing will be the only
guaranteed intergovernmental transfer to be received from the Central
Government, the RSS also provides incentives to provincial fiscal autonomy.
A/    There should be in place a system of intergovernmental transfers that are
predictable, transparent, financially sustainable, and that provide incentives
to provincial fiscal autonomy. PGFS, op. cit., Chapter VII.



- 61 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
4.          Although the PGFS recommended that the basic RSS currently in
place not be changed in the near-term for all of these reasons, it advocated
that the Central Government implement a system for monitoring the efficacy of
the system, taking into account the criteria noted above (predictable,
transparent, sustainable, equitable, and promoting provincial fiscal
autonomy). Basic inputs for monitoring and evaluation of the RSS could be
provided by the Provincial Financial Management Information System, described
below. It is very important, however, that the continual evaluation of the
RSS, and eventual changes to improve it, not be done solely on the basis of
provincial financial management; rather, it should be made in the broader
context of national fiscal policies for stabilization and economic
development. 5/
5.          Intergovernmental ComDarative Advantage.  The Government of
Argentina has embarked on a strong policy for decentralization of the public
sector, with transfer of infrastructure and service delivery responsibility to
provinces (and municipalities). However, this policy has not been supported
with detailed analysis on intergovernmental comparative advantage regarding
financing and delivery. To date, the political decision has been made to
decentralize service delivery, and adjustments in the RSS have been made to
finance these. However, there is a knowledge gap regarding, for example, tax
devolution as an alternative to the RSS if lower levels of government are more
efficient administrators of certain taxes, or scale economies for certain
services indicating that decentralization would be inefficient. The proposed
component would help fill this gap.
6.          ImRlementation of the Financial Management Information System. In
order to provide data essential to macroeconomic planning, as well as to
monitor provincial progress toward fiscal autonomy, the Central Government is
moving to establish a Provincial Financial Management Information System
(FMIS). Work has begun with resources from a Project Preparation Facility to
cover the 1987-89 period, for which no data were available at the Central
Government. Baseline date for the FMIS would be provided by the provinces
through their PBSs. Initially, the PBS would be the FAIP to begin the
process, but a more comprehensive expenditure planning and budgeting system
would be implemented over time. The PBS would be the key instrument for the
planning, programming and control of provincial revenues and expenditures, and
it would also be the primary instrument for analysis of provincial eligibility
for project financing in that it would provide information on the economic
efficiency and financial sustainability of the provincial plans.
7.          The data on the debt of provincial governments would be improved
to provide detailed information on all of the sources of short- and longer-
term financing, as well as guarantees. Both the direct and indirect
administrations should be covered. Furthermore, in terms of short term
l/    See Argentina: Tax Policy for Stabilization and Economic Recovery, World
Bank Country Study, 1990.



- 62 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
credit, the data would show: for what the payment is owed (i.e., personnel,
social security, suppliers, contract services) and to whom it is owed
(municipalities, decentralized entities and the National Treasury, national
public enterprises, private firms, etc.), and if it is in arrears. This
system would permit a much clearer analysis of provincial floating debt, which
most officials recognize as a serious problem but one that is now very
difficult to address due to the lack of adequate data. There should also be
up-to-date information on the extent to which resources from revenue sharing
have been used as guarantees for loans.
8.          The FMIS would serve two key functions.  First, it would provide
the Central Government with a necessary input for national fiscal policy.
Also, it would provide the base on which to identify provincial needs for
technical assistance for improved financial management, and to design such
assistance programs. Very useful experience in the design and implementation
cf such information systems currently is available in the five provinces
(Buenos Aires, Cordoba, La Pampa, Neuquen and Santa Fe) that are implementing
the Bank-financed Municipal Development Project (Loan 2920-AR), where
runicipal financial management information systems are being developed at the
provincial level. The experience with the new budgeting system in the
province of Mendoza is also most interesting, showing how much can be done
when there is a strong commitment to fiscal reform.
9.          Strategy for Sustainable Financing of Provincial Exgenditures.
The financing strategy would be designed to address three basic needs for the
overall strategy for reform of intergovernmental financial relations: (a) to
immediately provide strong national incentives to provincial fiscal autonomy;
(b) to provide financing for capital improvements programs in the near-term
for those provinces that generate current account savings; and (c) to promote,
in the medium- and long-term, the transition of the financing of provincial
capital investments from earmarked, segmented sources of funding to
competitive, non-segmented financing through domestic financial markets.
10.         The proposed project would be an initial step in the design and
implementati--i of the financing strategy, moving away from supporting
provincial expenditures with national deficit financing, and toward the
provinces eventually financing their investments with their own savings and
with borrowing obtained through the national financial markets. Currently,
however, Argentina's financial markets are unstable and segmented, and they
are not efficiently mobilizing domestic savings and allocating resources. The
proposed Public Sector Reform Loan for Argentina specifically would address
strengthening of the financial sec ot
11.         As Argentina's financial .. .rkets attain acceptable levels of
domestic savings mobilization and of efficient resource allocation, financing
of provincial investment programs with official sources of credit could be
phased out, with the provinces thereafter competing for funds in non-segmented
financial markets.



- 63 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
Institutional Development for the Provinces
12.         With technical assistance provided under the PPF Advances and
under the proposed project, provincial governments would begin immediately to
formulate FAIPs, and to initiate the design of Provincial Planning and
Budgeting Systems (PBSs).
13.         Financial Action and Investment Plans.  Provincial FAIPs would be
the first step in moving toward provincial financial autonomy. See Annex 4
for additional discussion.
14.         Provincial Planning and Budgeting System.  After an initial period
(about one year) of implementation of the FAIP, provinces would move to
implementing their PBS. The recommendations of Chapter VI of the PGFS
provides guidelines for this system.
15.         The PBS would be a key tool for provincial planning, budgeting and
control. It also would be fundamental for monitoring the effectiveness of
provincial management, not only by provincial authorities, but also by the
National Secretaria de Hacienda as it monitors macroeconomic policy and
evaluates whether the province is eligible for project participation. Key
elements of the PBS would include:
(a)   planning and control of provincial revenues;
(b)   expenditure priorities, including
(i)   maintenance and rehabilitation
(ii) personnel policies that provide adequate professionalism and
performance
(iii)   new investments, with projects costing greater that an
amount agreed with the Secretaria de Hacienda subject to a
competent benefit/cost analysis to ensure economic
efficiency;
(c)   reliable projections of total and incremental (with and without a
proposed investment) revenues to ensure financial sustainability;
(d)   strategies for financing investment costs, including own savings
and borrowings; and
(e)   financial and service delivery relationships with decentralized
provincial agencies and enterprises, as well as municipalities.
(f)   strategies for maximizing the impact on private sector investment.
16.         With regard to this last element, strategies for  maximizing the



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
impact of public expenditures on private investment should be developed.
Provinces should analyze their comparative advantages or "vocations" for
different kinds of activities (i.e., those that they could stimulate without
subsidies), such as in the primary sector as well as in industry and tourism.
The resulting development strategies could serve as a substitute for
Industrial Promotion in which industries are induced at tremendous fiscal and
economic opportunity costs to locate in places where they have little or no
competitive advantages. The study should begin with an analysis of the
components of the province's comparative advantage (natural resources,
climate, social and economic infrastructure, etc.), and, then, identify
potential activities for investment and barriers to their development. For
example, the "vocation" of a province might be agriculture, but it lacks key
transportation and storage facilities to assure their adequate development.
The possibility of provision of such infrastructure by the private sector
should always be analyzed. Possible forward and backward linkages should also
be explored. For example, the highest priority might be irrigation, which
could in turn produce demands for processing of the increased production, as
well as for inputs. Ways of informing the private sector of these
opportunities should be developed.
B. Physical Investments
17.         As the proposed operation would finance a "time slice" of
provincial investment programs, details of eligible provincial physical
investments for maintenance, rehabilitation, completion of unfinished works,
and new investments would be available only during project implementation.
However, with support from the PPF Advance, a profile of recent provincial
investments has been assembled (Table 6.1), and this provides a good
indication for estimating future priorities. In 1989, total provincial
(central and decentralized administrations) investment was approximately US$
975 million. Excluding the General Administration, Social Security and Social
Welfare (predominantly housing) sectors that would not be eligible for project
financing, the provinces invested about US$ 505 million. Of this sub-total,
79 percent of investments were concentrated in four sectors:
roads                     49 percent;
Irrigation and Drainage  13 percent;
Education                 10 percent; and
Energy                     7 percent.



ARCENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8.1
Investments of Centralized and Decentralized Administration by Sector and Subsector: 1983 - 1989 (a)
Thousands of US: of December 1989
Sector                                         1985            1986            1987            1988            1989
Subsector                                _ _____________                 --------------- --------------- _
Total     U    Total    X    Total       X    Total      X    Total      X
TOTAL                                   1,212.9  100.0  1,653.1  100.0  1,944.2  100.0  1,623.0  100.0   976.2  100.0
1- GENERAL ADMINISTRATION                    63.1    4.4    92.2   6.6    64.9   3.3    58.6    3.8    56.1   5.6
2- SOCIAL SECURITY                           16.8    1.3    15.4   0.9    19.8   1.0    10.6   0.7    10.0    1.0
3- HEALTH                                    79.7   6.6   112.4   6.8   121.0   6.2    90.1   6.9    57.9   5.9
Medical                                 20.7    1.7    37.8   2.3    47.2   2.4    29.3   1.9    28.7   2.9
Environmental Protection (b)            39.1    3.2    39.1   2.4    41.4   2.1    33.0   2.2    22.2   2.3
Other                                   19.8   1.6      36.6   2.1    32.6   1.7    27.8   1.8           7.0   0.7
4- SOCIAL WELFARE                           380.0  31.3   603.2 36.490    883.8  44.4   611.3  40.1   406.1  41.5
Housing and Urban Development          307.8  26.4   393.5  23.8   702.6  38.1   615.5  33.8   401.8  41.2
Other                                   72.3   6.0   209.7  12.7   161.2   8.3    95.8   6.3             3.3    0.3
5- EDUCATION AND CULTURE                     80.1   8.8    64.9   3.9    87.2   3.6    865.8   4.3    48.1    4.9
Elementary Education                    44.8   3.7    38.7   2.3    32.6   1.7    30.1   2.0    27.1    2.8
Secondary Education                      3.8    0.3      7.7   0.6    11.7   0.6    14.6   1.0    19.1   2.0
Higher Education                         0.0    0.0      0.4    0.0      0.7   0.0       0.0    0.0      0.6    0.1
Other                                   31.6    2.6    18.1   1.1    22.2   1.1         21.1   1.4       1.3    0.1
6- SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY                     0.1   0.0       0.7    0.0      0.3    0.0      0.6   0.0       0.4    0.0
7- ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                     604.3  49.8   764.2  46.2   807.1  41.6   686.2  46.1   398.7  40.9
Irrigation and Drainage                 91.0   7.6   131.3   7.9   113.0   5.8    84.6   6.6    83.0    6.6
Agriculture and Renewable Resources     11.5   1.0    19.2   1.2    14.4   0.7           8.9   0.6       6.0    0.6
Energy and Fuel                         21.2   1.8    40.8   2.6    81.7   4.2    68.3   3.8    38.9    3.8
Mining                                   1.3    0.1      4.0   0.2       2.7   0.1       0.4    0.0      0.1    0.0
Road Transport                         353.0  29.1   387.6  23.4   430.6  22.1   407.3  26.7   248.3  25.5
Water Tr&nsport                          0.6    0.1      4.4   0.3       5.1   0.3       2.0   0.1       0.0    0.0
Air Transport                            1.8    0.1      0.7    0.0      0.9   0.0       0.7    0.0      0.0    0.0
Communications                           2.8    0.2      3.5   0.2    14.2   0.7         4.4    0.3      3.0    0.3
Othor                                  121.0  10.0   172.7  10.4   144.5   7.4   119.8   7.9    41.4    4.2
Source: Argentina, Ministry of Ecoonomy, 1990
Notes: (a) Estimates based on the results from the following provinces:                                                              o0
Period 1986-89 : Cordoba, Corrientes, Formosa, Mendoza, Rio Negro, Santiago del Estero                                    eh
Period 1985-88 : Entre Rios, Neuquen, Tucuman
Year 1989 : Catamarca, La Rioja
(b) Includes water and sewer systems, pollution control and control of desease-pro4ucing animals and insects.



-66-                                        ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6.2
Investment In Civl1 Works and Equipment: 1983-89
Millions of US8 of December 1989
Average
Provincia               1983   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    Total   83-89        X
M.C.B.A.               111.4   89.3    23.6    61.6    89.1    70.8    70.8    478.4    88.1    11.6
Buenos Aires          258.6   228.4   152.9   194.9   287.8   227.0   131.2  1,465.7   208.1    19.6
Catamarca              21.3    18.0    14.8    18.8    23.3    14.2       8.9    118.9    17.0      1.1
Cordoba                 71.9    88.8    96.9   119.3   121.9   116.9    68.0    871.2    95.9       6.7
Corri.nts              64.3    88.8    48.0    81.0    61.9    87.6    36.3    895.0    6e.4        2.7
Chaco                  49.2    51.1   61.0    83.0    88.8    58.4    38.8    393.1    58.2         2.0
Chubut                 52.0    85.0    40.8    67.8    67.8    49.5    44.7    888.9    48.1        2.0
Entre Rio.              51.7    61.1    44.9    81.3   107.8    88.8    28.0    443.1   68.3        7.3
Formosa                 78.9    69.6    84.1    63.4    88.8    47.6    82.7    8R0.      64.4     2.8
Jujuy                   80.8    47.0    44.8    41.3    48.7    39.5    21.3    272.8    39.0       1.0
La Pampa               47.9    82.9    52.1    53.6    37.8    37.9    22.7    284.8    40.7        2.1
La Rlojs                28.3    20.9    38.2   65.8    87.4    26.2   38.2    243,0    84.7         1.3
Mendoza                42.8    87.4    63.4    61.0    93.6   102.1    87.0    427.2    61.0        6.4
Mielones                62.9    70.8    43.8    69.2    84.8    88.6    21.1    851.1    60.2       2.4
Neuquem                 86.7    96.4    86.1   150.4   131.4   101.9    79.1    729.9   104.3       8.8
Rio Negro               66.1    50.9    49.2    71.8    84.4    70.0   a8.6    419.6    60.0        1.7
Salt*                  41.9    42.8    58.6    92.0   100.9    60.0    29.8    415.8    69.4        3.0
San Juan                57.2    87.5    43.9    61.8    68.1    61.9    27.7    878.0    64.0       1.3
San Luis                18.0    31.7    26.6    28.2    89.6    82.2    29.8    206.0    29.3       1.2
Santa Cruz              86.2   56.1    60.9    67.5    68.6    48.9    24.3    889.8    52.8        2.2
Santa Fe                69.0    64.9    64.6    91.2   149.4    98.8    68.3    698.8    86.2    10.6
Santiago del Estero    40.4    87.7    42.1    49.6    48.6    51.6    84.3    804.1    43.4        1.3
Tucuman                 81.6    28.8    32.2    39.1    46.9    89.7    33.2    249.9    86.7       1.6
Tierra del Fuego       34.8    39.5    36.7    60.8    62.9    81.1    21.8    277.6    39.8        1.7
Total         1467.3  1431.2  1212.9  1863.1  1944.2  1522.9   975.2 10,198.8  1468.7   100.0
Source: Argentina Ministry of Economy, 1990.



- 67 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(by Bank FY, in US$ millions of December 1990)
Coaponent                          1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
1.   Institutional Development
A. Central Government         0.4      0.8      1.7      1.6      1.0     0.4      0.1       6.0
B. Provinces                  3.2      7.6    15.1    14.6       8.9      3.8      0.8      54.0
Sub-Total 1                   3.6      8.4    16.8    16.2       9.9      4.2      0.9      60.0
It. Physicat Investment
A. Infrastructure            20.9    48.7    97.3    93.9    57.4    24.3          5.2    347.7
B. Facilities                 7.0    16.4    32.8    31.7    19.4         8.2      1.8    117.3
Sub-Total II                 27.9    65.1    130.1  125.6    76.8    32.5          7.0    465.0
ill. Project Administration         3.0      7.0     14.0   13.5       8.2      3.5      0.8     50.0
TOTAL                        34.5    80.5    161.0  155.2    94.9    40.2          8.7    575.0



- 68 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic and Social Impact
Economic Impact
1.          Table 8.1 provides a summary of the economic impacts of recent
regional PCRs for sectors that are similar to those that may be expected to be
financed under the proposed project, and account for about 60 percent of the
estimated investment profile (Table 6.1). The weighted (by loan amount)
average of economic rates of returns of these projects was 19 percent.
Social Impact
2.          Successful implementation of the proposed project would have two
main social impacts: construction employment generation; and increased equity
in provincial tax administration.
3.          Using the estimate of 30 percent of the cost of labor in total
works' cost (US$ 449 million), and the average monthly wage of construction
workers at roughly US$ 100 equivalent, project implementation would generate
about 110,000 person years of construction employment. This would have an
especially important impact during a period of high unemployment, especially
among unskilled workers that could work in construction, expected during the
adjustment period.
4.          Regarding increased equity in provincial tax administration, a
recent study on the incidence of indirect taxes included both the provincial
turnover and the transfer taxes for five income groups.11  Even when
calculated as a percentage of total family expenditures, the turnover tax
proved to be quite regressive, accounting for 6.1 percent for the lowest
income family (average monthly income US$187) versus 4.8 percent for the
highest income group (average monthly income of US$445). On the other hand,
the incidence of the transfer tax was not only much lower, but its impact was
more progressive, 0.02 percent for the lowest income group versus 0.04 percent
for the highest income group. Greater reliance on the transfer tax relative
to the turnover tax could increase the equity of the distribution of the
burden of provincial taxes.
5.          Measures to increase the efficiency of tax collection generally
would also increase equity by eliminating tax evasion and free riding. These
measures are urgently needed. In the longer run, alternatives for increasing
/   J. L. Bour, J. Sereno, and  N. Susmel, Incidencia de los Impuestos
Indirectos en el Gasto de las F.-milias, Documento del Trabajo 20, FIEL, Buenos
Aires, 1989, pp. 24-25.



- 69 -
&Dmu 
Page 2 of 4
the progressiveness of provincial. taxes should be studied, Much as greater
reliance on the transfer and real estate taxes.
.



ARGENTINA
Provincial Develozent Project
Table 8.1
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF DIFFERENT PROJECTS
IN THE LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGION
Loan           EtR (M)
Amount
Project Type / Na                             Objective                                           (USf oln)     Appr.      Act.
I. ROAD PROJECTS
Argentino:                        1. Improvem e  of gravel and alroedy paved road*.               105.0          23.0      22.0
Fourth Highway Project            2. Improvewent of national transport planning
(1384-AR)                         8. Studies In areas of agricultural development,
pavement noed determination and traffic safety
Colombia:                         1. Rehabilitation program (713):
Seventh Highway Projoct                Iuprovoemnt of terrain                                      88.0          36.o      22.8               -4
(1471-CO)                              Widening of roadway
Overlaying p vem nt
2. Vehicle weight vontrol program (6X)
8. Highway meintenance progrm (213)
4. Studios for transport planning (1X)
Chile                             1. Construction or reconstruction of four highway                 10.8         24.0      18.0
Second Highway Construction Proj.   totalting 166.4 km.
(6e8-CH)                          2. Feasibility and engineering studies for 600 km
of future highway construction.
II. WATER SUPPLY PROJECTS
Colomblo:                         1. Expanslon and rehabilitation of water                         68.6          14.0       8.e
Second Bogota Water Supply Proj.    supply systems
(1697-CO)                         2. Provlslon of operational and other equipment
S. Engineerlng morvices related to project's design
dea gn
C I
lOb I



Loan           ERR (X)
Amount            _
Project Type / Na..                          Objective                                         (USS mIn)     Appr.      Act.
11. WATER SUPPLY PROJECTS (Cont.)
Colombia:                         1. Expansion and rehabilitation of water supply                27.9         37.6    38.6
Third Bogota Water Supply,           system
Sewerage and Drainage             2. Seeorage notwork a*nd transmission mains
(1697-CC)                        8. Equipment purchase
4. Engineering services related to project's design
Nicaragua:                        1. Provision of adequate water supply (construction        -   16.1          16.0     12.0
Water supply III Project             of water tanks and of three pumping stations,
(1496-N1)                            lnstallation of distribution-transmission mains)
2. Provision of technical assistance
S. Help in reorganization of water sector
III. RBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Colombia:                         1. Improvement of social services (prim-ry schools,            24.8          10.0     10.0
Urban Developmnt Project             health centors, child and family welfare center)
(1558-CO)                        2. Increase of employmnt and productivty (assis-
tance for promotlon of cooperatives, vocational
training program, credit to small enterprises)
3. Physical and environmntal Improvements (water A
sewerage , area upgrading...)
Perus                             1. Basic and productive support lnfrastrucutre (water          21.6          29.7     31.6
Urban Sites and Service.             supply, electrical conections, public lighting,
Developmont Project (2)              access roads, green ar. ;s)
(1C 2-PA)                        2. Technical assistance
1!i



- 72 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assessment of Environmental Impact
1.          Most of the physical investments to be financed under the proposed
project would be in what Operational Directive 4.00 defines as category B:
Projects/Components which may have specific environmental impacts, but where
more limited environmental analysis is appropriate than would be necessary for
large projects with significant environmental impacts. Projects in this
category normally require more limited environmental analysis than an complete
Environmental Assessment.
2.          The key to successful implementation of OD 4.00 guidelines under
the project would be the institutional capacity of the CEU and PEU (see Annex
11) to design and implement adequate environmental guidelines. The formal
instrument for laying out these guidelines would be the POM (Annex 10). The
PPF Advanced are providing funding for elaboration of the POM, and for
discussion with provincial authorities regarding the POM, including
environmental guidelines.
3.          The CEU and PEUs would have at least one environmental specialist,
primarily charged with screening investment proposals for their environmental
impact. When an environmental assessment is required, ideally the provincial
environmental agency could undertake this, and technical assistance for
supporting the agency could be financed under the project. However, if this
agency is not capable of performing this task in a timely manner, the PEU
environmental specialist would supervise environmental consultants'
environmental assessment.



- 73 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Operations Manual
1.          The CEU has prepared a project manual for the provinces which
contains sufficient detail to provide guidelines to all provinces on (a) the
project's objectives, eligibility criteria and operational procedures, and (b)
the operational commitments necessary to implement all of the agreements to be
reached with the Central Government and the Bank. The following are the main
elements covered in this manual.
Proiect Obiectives. See para. 2.04.
Proiect Com2onents. See paras. 2.05-2.06.
Eligibility Criteria for Provincial Participation. See paras. 2.09-2.13.
Provincial Executing unit. See paras. 2.25-2.29 and Annex 11.
Financial Action and Investment Plan. See Annex 4.
ExDenditures Eligible for Proiect Financing. See paras. 2.15-2.18.
Appraisal Guidelines
2.          Table 10.1 presents a general summary of the elements required for
appraisal of each type of component, as well as those items which would be
eligible for Bank financing.
3.          Technical Oualitv.  When examining a proposed civil works project,
the PEU would verify that acceptable engineering practices were used in
project design. The general design criteria must be in full accord with
Argentinean technical norms (Normas Tecnicas Argentinas).
Economic Efficiency. For smaller projects costing less than the
limits proposed in Table 10.1, it would be acceptable to use the least cost
solution, rather than doing a full cost-benefit analysis. The least cost
solution is the alternative which attains the project's objective at the
lowest cost. For example, for rural feeder roads a service level expressed as
the minimum number of days that a region's farmers would have access to
markets through the roads would be set, and the alternative that meets that
service level at the lowest cost, including maintenance and operation, would
be selected. The least cost analysis also would include estimates of
effective demand (benefits), so that expenditure alternatives within sectors



- 74 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
may be ranked by priority. In preparing cost-benefit analyses, the general
Bank guidelines would be used, with specific guidelines provided for sectors
in which there are Bank operations with specific methodologies approved (e.g.,
water and roads).
4.          Financial Sustainability.  The PEU must demonstrate in its FAIP
that it will be able to fully maintain and operate the component. Cost
recovery through user fees, betterment levies, etc. should be as complete as
possible.
5.          Institutional CaRacity.  The PEU must demonstrate that the
institutional entity responsible for project implementation is viable. For
details, see Annex 11.
6.          Environmental Impact.  This should be based on the guidelines of
Annex 9. See the environmental assessment requirements for the different
categories of expenditures (i.e., maintenance, rehabilitation, etc.) in Table
10.1.
7.          Legal Analysis.  Where pertinent, each province's FAIP must
provide the legal analysis and documents necessary for project implementation.
This would be especially important in the case of proposed completion of
unfinished works.
Procurement Procedures
8.          The POM would include procurement procedures and standard bidding
documents fully consistent with Bank guidelines (see paras. 2.33-2.36).
Disbursement Procedures
9.          See para. 2.37-2.42.
Accounts and Audits
10.         See para. 2.43.



- 75 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Table 10.1
Requirements for Appraisal of Provincial investmwnt nd Tachnical Assistence Proposels
Components                   Potential Bank     Elements Required for Appraisal
Financing
For: (a)
Maintenance                  Consultants        * Technical Quality
Equipment
* Economic Efficiency
Service Levet Specification
Least Cant Solution, with priorities ranked
by expected benefits
* Financiat Sustainability
* Institutional Capacity
Rehabilitation               Consultants        * Same as above plus:
Works
* Environmental lmpact
Completion of                Consultants        * Technical Quality
Unfinished                   Works
Civil Works and                                 * Economic Efficiency (b)
New Investments                                                If cost US# 2 million or more: Benefit-Cost Analysis
If cost less than US# 2 million: Same as rehabilitation
* Financing Plan
Ivmestment
Maintenance
* Institutional Capacity
* Enmironmental Imp ct
* Legal Analysis
Technical Assistance         Consultants        * Objectives
and Training                Equipment
* Term of Reference
* Application of the outputs or products
Notes: (a) Expenditures for salaries, land, taxes and duties are not etigible for Bank financing.
(b) For paved provincial roads, the limit for least cost solution would be US$ 3 million.



- 76 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 5
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Responsibilities of the
Central and Provincial Executing Units
DescriRtions of Each of the Divisions of the CEU and Their Staffing
Requirements
1.          The following presents a detailed description of each of the
Divisions of the CEU and their staffing requirements.
2.          The Institution Development Program Division would:
--Prepare, with the assistance of the Investment Program Division, the
Project Operation Manual; once agreed with the Bank, this manual could
not be amended without its prior consent.
--Verify the annual current account surplus of the provinces.
--Evaluate annually the PEUs, including their general performance,
steffing and working conditions.
--Classify annually the province in accord with the eligibility
criteria.
--Receive, appraise and monitor the implementation of the Financial
Action and Investment Plans (FAIP) of the provinces.
--Implement the institutional development component of the project by
assessing the need for technical assistance for itself and for the
provinces and by doing the necessary feasibility studies.
--Participate in the supervision of project implementation.
--Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of project
implementation reports.
3.          The Investment Program Division would:
--Assist the Institutional Program Division in the preparation of the
project implementation manuals.
--Appraise annually a sample of civil works projects presented by the
provincss in accord with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
-Supervise the procurement procedures of the provinces.
--Assist the Institutional Development Program Division in assessing the
needs for technical assistance and training for the ,rovinces for the
implementation of civil works, improving the design of budgeting
procedures and maintenance plans.
--Participate in supervision of project implementation.
--Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of project
implementation reports.
--Support PEUs in carrying out environmental screening and assessment.



- 77 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
4.          The Financial Management Information System Division would develop
an information system that is compatible among the provinces, as well as
expandable both at the central and provincial levels.   This system would
provide data essential for macroeconomic planning, as well as for monitoring
provincial progress toward fiscal autonomy.
5.          The Administrative Division, in addition to performing the general
administrative duties for the CEU, would:
--Carry out all project legal agreements, including those with the Bank
and the provinces.
--receive and consolidate the audits of the provinces and CEU.
--Prepare the project implementation reports.
--Maintain the special and project accounts.
6.          Adequate staffing is essential for the CEU to adequately carry out
it responsibilities. Staffing includes not only recruiting either internally
or externally technically qualified people to perform all of the required
functions, but also providing them with adequate physical conditions,
equipment and mobility. The CEU would not be a large entity. The experience
of the Municipal Development Project indicates that its staff would vary
between 30 to 35. Assuming the number of civil works projects to be appraised
annually to be 35 in the first year, 20 in the second and 10 in the third, and
considering supervision travel demands (a three person team would visit each
province twice a year), and implementation of the Central Government's project
component, the CEU basic staff would be tentatively composed as follows:
Executive coordinator                                   1
Institutional Development Program Division
Economist                                         1
Public Finance Specialist                         1
Financial Analyst                                 1
Technical Assistance and Training                 2
Central Government Component of the Project       6
Subtotal                                   11
Investment Program Division
Engineer                                          2
Economist                                         1
Financial Analyst                                 1
Environmental Specialist                          1
Subtotal                                    5
Financial Managanient Information System Division
Public Finance Analyst                            1
Computer System Specialist                        1
Junior analysts                                   5
Subtotal                                    7



- 78 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 5
Administration Division
Lawyer                                           2
Accountant                                       1
Subtotal                                   3
General Services                                       6
TOTAL                                                 33
The basic group would be assisted by consultants in accord with needs.
Description of the Divisions of the PEU and Their Staffing Reguirements
7.          The structure of each PEU would vary across provinces.  However,
all are expected to have the same general functions and staffing requirements
as summarized below.
8.          The Institutional Development Program Division would:
--Prepare statements of the annual current account situation to be
presented to the CEU.
--Prepare the province's annual FAIP.
--Monitor the implementation of the annual FAIP.
--Assess the provincial needs for technical assistance and training in
order to receive CEU support.
--Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of project
implementation reports.
9.          The Investment Program Division would:
--Discuss with the provincial executing agencies (ministries or other
entities responsible for the execution of civil works) all procedures
for procurement, disbursement, monitoring and supervision that are
included in the POM.
--Appraise the project for civil works presented by the executing
agencies.
--Review "ex-ante' all the procurement procedures of the executing
agencies.
--support the Institutional Development Program Division in assessing
technical assistance and training needs of the province for the
implementation of civil works (procurement and supervision, improving
project design and budgeting procedures, and the development of
maintenance plans.
--Supervise the civil works implementation.
--Supervise the implementation of the maintenance plans.
--Verify the certified receipts of contractors to authorize disbursement
by PEU, according to the procedures established in the POM.
--Assist the Administrative Division in the preparation of Project
Implementation Reports.
--Screen investments for environmental impact and ensure that an
adequate environmental assessment is done when required.



- 79 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 5
10.         The Financial Management Information System Division would:
--Develop an information system that is compatible with that in CEU for
the province that will eventually include centralized and decentralized
entities of both the provinces and municipalities. This system will
provide essential data for economic planning as well as for monitoring
provincial progress toward the goal of fiscal autonomy.
11.         Besides performing the normal PEU administrative duties the
Administrative Division would:
--Maintain the project account.
--Maintain all the documents necessary to for the semi-annual audits.
--Prepare an overall project report to be sent to CEU on a semi-annual
basis.
12.         There are two basic conditions necessary for the PEU to assume
adequately its implementation responsibilities under the project: (a)
sufficient authority and (b) adequate staffing.
13.         Sufficient Authority.  Given that the project represents a first
step in a strategy for the structural reform of the public sector, the PEU has
to have authority to coordinate the process. This authority ultimately flows
from the governor and from his commitment to support the needed reforms.
Without this clear commitment and support, the project will not be
successfully implemented.
14.         Adeauate Staffing.  The staff must have sufficient technical
expertise to carry out implementation and to competently interact with
specialized agencies. The PEU should not be a large entity. Rather than
duplicating the functions and tasks of existing agencies, the PEU should seek
to coordinate their activities to attain the project's objectives. In
addition to performing directly all planning, programming, the PEU will
participate in the implementation of specific project components, perform
supervision and reporting duties, and assure the coordination successful
coordination of all provincial entities involved. The PEU should have
appropriate physical installations and equipment to permit its staff to work
together in the same physical space. Mobility is also very important, so the
PEU should not depend on other provincial entities for transportation.
15.         The experience with the Municipal Development Project indicates
that the PEU staff would vary between 25 and 30.  A typical PEU staffing would
be composed as follows:
General Coordinator                                      1
Executive Coordinator                                   1



- 80 -
Annex 11
Page 5 of 5
Institutional Development Program Division
Economist                                         1
Public Finance Specialist                         1
Financial Analyst                                 1
Technical Assistance and Training                 1
Government Component of the Project               2
Subtotal                                    6
Investment Program Division
Engineer                                          1
Economist                                         1
Financial Analyst                                 1
Environmental Specialist                          1
Subtotal                                    4
Financial Management Information System Division
Public Finance Analyst                            1
Computer System Specialist                        1
Junior analysts                                   5
Subtotal                                    7
Administration Division
Lawyer                                            1
Accountant                                        1
Subtotal                                    2
General Services                                         8
TOTAL                                                   28
The basic group would be assisted by consultants when needed.



- 81 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.          Because of the broad range of potentially eligible sub-projects to
be implemented in many jurisdictions, proper supervision of the proposed
agreements and conditions to be incorporated in the project's legal documents
will require carefully planned and executed procedures. In addition to the
supervision of procurement and audit procedures, key elements of project
implementation and supervision include sub-project appraisal and approval,
disbursement procedures, and field supervision by Bank missions. These are
summarized below.
Sub-Project Anpraisal and Approval
2.          The specific institutional development and investment activities
(sub-projects) to be financed under the loan would follow the procedures
outlined below.
(a)     Only sub-projects included in an approved FAIP will be eligible
for financing.
(b)     Once the PEU and CEU have received all information for a
satisfactory appraisal (including technical, economic, financial
and environmental aspects, as laid out in the POM) for a specific
sub-project, the CEU would propose its approval to the Bank. The
information to be provided by the CEU to the Bank will be
determined by the type of sub-project and its estimated cost (see
Table 12.1).
(c)     As a general rule, such information will consist of a summary
description of the objectives and content of the sub-project, the
expected benefits (including rate of return when required by the
POM) to be derived from it, the kind and amount of inputs to be
financed out of the sub-loan and with counterpart funds, the
procurement procedures to be applied, as specified in the POM,
proposed direct or indirect recovery of the costs of the sub-
project, and such other additional information that the Bank may
reasonably request.
(d)     All FAIPs would be reviewed in detail by the CEU and by the Bank
prior to their approval by each institution. In the cases of
eligible sub-projects, these would be reviewed ex-ante by each
institution on a sample basis, as summarized in Table 12.1. When



- 82 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
supervision requires prior review by the Bank, a full set of
documents, including all information required by the POM, will be
furnished to the Bank.
(e)     In all cases the CEU shall assign a code and number to each sub-
project, which will be used in all correspondence and procedures
relating to such sub-project.
Summary Disbursement Procedures
3.          Once the Bank has approved financing for a sub-project, it will
give notice to the CEU through a telex, facsimile or aide memoire, indicating
the sub-project's code and number and the amount eligible for financing under
the sub-loan for such sub-project.
4.          The CEU shall keep accurate records of the procurement procedures
followed and the amounts disbursed under each sub-project. The procurement
procedures and disbursement requests will conform to the requirements set
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and the POM.
5.          Disbursements from the Loan Account will be made only for sub-
projects approved by the CEU and the Bank. The evidence to be furnished to
the Bank regarding each disbursement will be determined by the type and amount
of the expenditures. Shortly after negotiations, the Bank will send to the
CEU a letter describing such procedures, including the limits to and
requirements for Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), letters of credit and
direct payments to foreign suppliers and contractors.
Bank Supervision
6.          In addition to desk reviews to be undertaken at Bank Headquarters
and/or at the Bank's Resident Representative Office, it is estimated that the
Bank will field at least two supervision missions per year. The objectives of
these missions would be to:
(a)     verify that the CEU is following all agreed procedures; and
(b)     visit about four provinces 2er mission, to verify PEUs compliance
with all agreed procedures, as well as to inspect and evaluate the
implementation of a number of sub-projects financed under the
loan.



- 83 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
Table 12.1
Argentina
Provincial Development Project
Summary Procedures for Prior Review of FAIPs and Sub-Project Appraisal
Component               CEU Review                     Bank Review
FAIPs                      All                             All
Maintenance       - All sub-projects costing    - Review of 20% of sub-projects
more than US$ 1 million       reviewed by the CEU
- 20% sample of other
sub-projects
Rehabilitation    - All sub-projects costing    - Review of 20% of sub-projects
more than US$ 3 million       reviewed by the CEU
- 20% sample of other
sub-projects
Completion of              All                   - Review of 50% of sub-projects
Unfinished Works                                   reviewed by the CEU
New Investments   - All sub-projects costing    - Review of 30% of sub-projects
more than US$ 3 million       reviewed by the CEU
- 30% sample of other
sub projects
Institutional     - All sub-projects costing    - Review of 20% of sub-projects
Development         more than US$ 3 million        reviewed by the CEU
and/,r at least 2 sub-
projeicts in each province



- 84 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Fiscal      Semester           Disbursement             Cumulative Disbursement
Year       Endina             in Semester_              Amount         of Total
1991 a      06/30/91                 12.0                12.0         6.0
1992        12/31/91                 10.0                22.0        11.0
06/30/92                 18.0                40.0       20.0
1993        12/31/92                 26.0                66.0        33.0
06/30/93                 30.0                96.0       48.0
1994        12/31/93                 28.0               124.0        62.0
06/30/94                 26.0               150.0       75.0
1995 b      12/31/94                 20.0               170.0        85.0
06/30/95                 13.0               183.0       91.5
1996 b      12/31/95                  9.0               192.0        96.0
06/30/96                  5.0               197.0       98.5
1997 b      12/31/96                  3.0               200.0      100.0
a     Includes initial deposit of US$12 million into the Special Account.
b     Rate of disbarsement reduced to recover advance made to Special Account.



85 -
ANNEX 14
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents in Proiect File
* Indicadores de Coyuntura, Fundacion de Investigaciones Economicas
Latinoamericanas (FIEL). November 1989, No. 284.
* Estudio sobre las Finanzas Provinciales (Primera Etapa). Buenos Aires, October
1988.
* Sistema de Inversiones: Analisis de la InversiSn Real, Programa de Saneamiento
Financiero y Desarrollo Econ6mico do las Provincias Argentinas. May 1990.
- Plan Trienal 89/91, Gobierno del Pueblo de la Provincia de Buenos Aires.
A Anexo al Plan Trienal 89191: Inventario de Emprendimlentos Municipales y
Comunitarios. Gobierno del Pueblo de la Provincia de Buenos Aires.
* Programa de Fortalecimiento Municipal, Gobierno del Pueblo de la Provincia de
Buenos Aires.
* Normas para la Confeccion de los Presupuestos Provinciales, Ministerio de
Economia, Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda, Direccion Nacional de Programacion
Presupuestaria. Buenos Aires, June 1980.
* Directorio de Exportaci6n do Cardoba, Repablica Argentina, 1988189, Camara de
Comercio Exterior del Centro de la Republica. Cordoba, June 1988.
* Programa de Acci6n Municipal, Pliego pars .1 Lamado a Licitacion Puiblica
Internacional para la Adquisicion de Biones, Provincia de Cordoba.
* Presupuestos por Resultados, Una Estrategia pare 1 Transformaci6n del Sector
Puiblico de Mendoza, Gobierno do la Provincia de Mendoza. September 1989.
* Sistema de Recaudacion y Control, Gobierno de Mendoza, Ministerio de Hacienda.
September 1989.
* C6digo Fiscal, Provincia del Neuquen, Ministerio de Economia y Hacienda,
Direccion General de Recaudaciones. Texto Ordenado 1987.
* Programa de Modernizacion de la Administracion Putblica de la Provincia del
Neuquen, Provincia del Neuquen, Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
Subsecretaria de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos.



MAP SECTION
f,



IBRD 20450
'.       \      BOLIVIA                   /           680
\   paolcoO~J Pc*>           sa{   
CofcniUIIOT  )                     '.    PPARAGUAY
S 1ALTA C_                   s ?x;                       )   B8 R A Z I L
FORqOSA T              Iade
_ ~ ~ ~~~S~,g Je ES4, REISE                   C....,  Poscdas >M          Bor:nod dS
i   t      Nontiaqo ~~~~del El414       ,,0
C TAMARCA          l|                                     1
(                L tOJA        2         a     ,  feRIOJA
.J        SAN JUAN                       SANT RO A                       ) F
bOA    SAN                 ~~~~~ROSARO
MENDOZA    SAN                          vila 1 stltcn
e                                        Cl--  l u R U G   ACY0toI URUGUAY
Cl-Il LE  7  S~AN RFEL                                        5UENIS AIRES
CHILEft 0                                                              A LTA
Bod  Blancos               H                     Sv)\
ow        f                  ~~~~~~~SANrA ROSA             
ENRG NTN
\   .        '   .   s        \           }   MAR IEDM
Son Codos de Barlacl,6
P.~e,to Mod"'n
RAWSON0    CJties and towns
- Major roads
~,Ports
Rivers
COMOORO                                             Province boundaries
RIVADAVIA
-  . -. international boundaries
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E SS(                               gVdD
s.30                                      so GALLEGOS
InS C00.l d. merRoc.                                \
tO. I0bt 0.r*C .me.n,                          -
'0   ,0 m r* 0.104  
- W.    t.. IW,'ok B
DW W no W-                                                                        S 0       200         00o       600        0oo
fl,.hn. 'r-. COMOOOProi,e o*ndrie
OO  ~  0'   . .g            J              IVDAI
010'. B.-~ 0 '.                                                     vEs 0         30      200     300      400l 5b00
.. cOt. 1A                                                                                                  I
Or~ &, l-
a  ~        1t 



