Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:          19621
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3280-AR)
August 19, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
Arg$1 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEU          -     Central Executing Unit
IDB          -     Inter-American Development Bank
ICR          -     Implementation Completion Report
IFI          -     International Financial Institutions
DGI          -     National Tax Agency
(Direcci6n General Impositiva)
FAIP         -     Financial Action and Investment Plan
MDP-I        -     First Municipal Development Project
MDP-II       -     Second Municipal Development Project
PDP-I        -     First Provincial Development Project
PDP-II       -     Second Provincial Development Project
PEU          -     Provincial Executing Unit
PRL          -     Provincial Reform Loan
PSRTAL       -     Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
SAFPA       -      Ministry of Interior's Secretariat for Financial Assistance to
the Provinces (Secretarfa de Asistencia Financiera para las
Provincias)
SAREP       -      Ministry of Interior's Secretariat for the Economic Reform
of the Provinces (Secretaria de Asistenciapara la Reforma
Econ6mica Provincial)
SICOM        -     Sistema de grandes Contribuyentes con Convenio
Multilateral
Vice President:           David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Myrna Alexander
Sector Director:          Guillermo Perry
Task Manager:             Miguel Mercado-Diaz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FIRST PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3280-AR)
Contents
Preface ...............i
Evaluation Summary .............. ii
Part  I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.           Statement of Objectives .1
B            Achievement of Objectives          .4
C            Major Factors Affecting the Project .10
D.    Bank Performance .14
E.           Borrower Performance .17
F            Assessment of Outcome .19
G.           Future Operations .20
H.           Key Lessons Learned .20
Part  II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessmnent .26
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits .28
Table 3:   Project Timetable .29
Table 4:     Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual .30
Table 5.a:  Project Costs .31
Table 5.b:  Project Financing .32
Table 6:     Status of Legal Covenants .33
Table 7:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .38
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Missions .39
Table 9:     Allocation of Funds Among Participating
Provinces: Initial Versus Actual .41
Table 10:    Cost of Approved Sub-Portfolios by Province:
Overall and IBRD Provincial Portfolios .42
Table 11:    Profile of Provincial Portfolios: Physical
Investments Versus Institutional Development  43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 12:    Composition of the Overall and IBRD-Financed
Portfolios ...............................   44
Table 13:    Type of Physical Investment Sub-Projects:
Overall and IBRD-Financed Portfolios ........................ 45
Table 14:    Economic Rates of Return for a Sample of
Physical Investment Sub-Projects .......................    46
Table 15:    Number of Beneficiaries of Physical Investments
in the Health Sector ............            47
Table 16:    Number of Beneficiaries of Physical Investments
in Education .48
Table 17.a:   Coverage of Cadastre Sub-Projects .49
Table 17.b:   Fiscal Impact of Cadastre Sub-Projects .50
Table 18:    Strategic Sub-Projects Under Implementation
by Province .51
Table 19:    Change in Ingresos Brutos: 1994-97 .52
Table 20:    Change in Own-Source Revenues: 1994-97 .53
Table 21:    Change in Personnel Expenditures: 1995-97 .54
Table 22:    Change in Current Account Surplus: 1994-97 . 55
Table 23:    Change in Primary Surplus: 1994-97 .56
Figures:
Figure 1:    Disbursement Profile.30
Figure 2:   Ranking of Consequences Associated with
Approving or Not Approving the PDP- .57
Appendices:
A.          Borrower's Contribution to ICR .58
B.           Mission's Aide Memoire .66
C.          Map ..............................



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3280-AR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Provincial
Development Project in Argentina, for which Loan 3280-AR in the amount of US$200
million equivalent was approved December 18, 1990, and became effective July 5, 1991.
The loan closed on December 31, 1998, two years after its original closing date. Final
disbursement took place in April 1999. The loan was disbursed in its totality.
The ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), under the supervision of
Miguel Mercado-Diaz, Task Manager (LCSPR), and reviewed by Mark Hagerstrom
(LCC7F), David Vetter (LCSPR), David Rosenblatt (LCSPR), and Antonio Martin del
Campo (LCSPR).
This ICR is based on information in the project files and discussions with
government at the national level and in participating provinces, and with technical staff of
the project implementation unit. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project's initial preparation and execution, and by
contributing its views, providing background material, and offering ample support
whenever needed.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3280-AR)
Executive Summary
Introduction
1.   In its first steps towards reform, the Menem administration developed an
adjustment program aimed at reducing the public sector deficit and addressing the
underlying structural problems and sources of instability in the country's economy. The
government sought the Bank's financial support and technical assistance to implement
reforms targeting the three major sources of public sector deficit: the central government
itself (including social security and the official banking and finance entities), the national
public enterprises, and the provincial govermments. The Provincial Development Project
(PDP-I) was designed to support the government's adjustment program in relation to the
provinces.
2.    As opportunely pointed out by the Bank's sector work', provincial governments
had been responsible for the largest and fastest-growing portion of the public sector
deficit, accounting for 1.4 percent of GDP in 1990. In turn, provincial fiscal imbalances
were a direct consequence of structural deficiencies in the provincial governments.
Provincial taxes were being collected poorly and provincial spending was highly
inefficient, mainly as a result of substantial overstaffing, inadequate administrative
controls, and weak provincial budgeting mechanisms. Provincial resources were also
being drained by highly inefficient public enterprises, insolvent provincial banks, and
insufficiently-financed provincial pension funds. Provincial governments were also ill-
prepared to fulfill their increased responsibilities as service providers and to rebuild the
country's physical infrastructure, greatly deteriorated after decades with no investments.
Project Objectives
3.    The PDP-I was specifically designed to provide financial support and incentives
for provinces to undertake their own adjustment programs that focused mainly on own-
source revenue enhancement and expenditure control in a manner consistent with the
national adjustment program. The PDP-I's specific objectives, as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR, November 21, 1990), were: a) implement appropriate financial
management reforms that will transform provincial governments from generators of
excessive public sector deficits to generators of surpluses that may finance public
"Provincial Government Finance Study," Report No. 8176, April 16, 1990.



iii
infrastructure and services necessary to promote economic development; b) strengthen
provincial governments' capacity to plan, program, finance, execute and monitor
expenditure prograrns that are economically efficient, financially sustainable,
institutionally manageable, and environmentally sound; and c) provide financing for
institutional development and physical investments that are consistent with the national
adjustment program and that promoted economic development.
4.    The total project costs were estimated at US$575 million equivalent, with the
IBRD and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) co-financing US$200 million
each, or 75 percent of the total costs. The project financed sub-projects under two
components: (a) institutional development (expected to amount to about 10 percent of
total project costs); and (b) physical investments (expected to account for about 81
percent of the total project costs). The emphasis of the institutional development
component was on sub-projects enhancing public sector management and revenue
collections, such as cadastres, tax administration, and financial administration systems.
The physical investments component included public infrastructure -- such as roads,
bridges, water supply and sanitation -- and facilities -- such as schools and health posts --
with an emphasis on maintenance programs, rehabilitation and completion of existing and
unfinished works.
5.    To accomplish its objectives, the loan was structured as a  multi-sectoral
investment program which was open to all provinces that met basic fiscal requirements
and demonstrated the fiscal benefits of their proposed sub-projects. The program
followed the "demand-driven" approach that is characteristic of multi-sectoral loans, as
opposed to the "supply-driven" approach of traditional loans in which investments are
determined a priori. Each province was responsible for identifying and selecting
individual sub-projects according to its own need assessment. With its emphasis on
flexibility, the program was highly effective in addressing the wide range of needs and
capacities among provinces and the general lack of data on provincial finances at the
time. While eligibility criteria ensured that the overall objectives of the program were
met, the PDP-I provided a flexible framework that allowed provinces to assess their
individual needs over time and to prepare and implement specific sub-projects tailored to
these needs. Also, by allocating resources based on performance, the project fostered
competition for loan funds among provinces and provided incentives for the agile
preparation and presentation of sub-projects.  Finally, the creditworthiness criteria
introduced through the project provided a good approximation of market conditions, thus
serving as an intermediate step toward the long term goal of provincial governments'
access to private financial markets.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Achievement of Project Objectives: The PDP-I has been highly successful in
introducing the agenda of public sector reform by rewarding prudent fiscal behavior
among provincial governments at a time when chronic fiscal imbalances were routinely
being financed by ad hoc transfers, fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits and the inflation tax.
The project has also been very successful in building technical and institutional capacity



iv
at the provincial level. Through more than 400 sub-projects, the PDP-I has also provided
continuous support to the provinces since they took their first steps towards fiscal
autonomy, prudent financial management, and efficiency in the delivery of services. As
consistently reported by provincial authorities, participating provincial governments are
now considerably stronger, and more efficient as the result of the PDP-I.
7.     The PDP-I became the cornerstone of the Bank's provincial portfolio, amounting
up to US$1.75 billion in 1998. Moreover, the success of other loans, the Provincial
Reform Loan (PRL) in particular, is closely related to the PDP-I. Specifically, the PDP-I
financed the diagnosis studies assessing the overall situation of the public sector that were
carried out in each of the potential participating provinces. The PDP-I served as an
immense technical assistance loan that provided ongoing financial and technical support
to the PRL-I and PRL-II provinces to implement the tools -- cadastre sub-projects,
financial administration systems and tax administration systems -- that ultimately
supported the more ambitious reform programs.
8.    Major  Factors  Affecting  the  Project:  Substantial  initial  delays  in
implementation were the result of weak institutional and technical capacity in the
provinces, complex legislative requirements -- legislative approval of subsidiary
agreements -- and the shallow commitment to reform in the provinces before the
Convertibility Plan and early years after its passage. Although the project disbursed in its
totality, its original closing date had to be extended twice -- from December, 1996 to
December, 1997 and later to December, 1998 -- to allow for the completion of important
sub-projects. (The second extension was granted to complete flood control sub-projects
to ameliorate some of the damage caused by "El Niino" in 1997.)
9.     Project Sustainability: Likely. It is evidenced from visits to the provinces,
reports from provincial officials, and the concrete actions being taken by provincial
governments that today's state of affairs in most provinces is drastically different from
ten years ago. At the time the PDP-I was being prepared, provincial governments were
generally operated with a total disregard for fiscal responsibility and efficiency.
Provincial accounts were a "black box" in which the large operating deficits were
disguised by quasi-fiscal financing through provincial banks and the inflation tax. After a
slow start, the process of provincial reform eventually took momentum after the Mexican
crisis in December 1994 and has continued to deepen since then. Overall, the primary
deficit of the provinces has been reduced from 1.6 percent of the GDP in 1990 to 0.1
percent in 1997. 2 The improvements that resulted from the PDP-I and the process of
provincial reform in general are likely to be sustained over the long term, assuming the
continuation of: a) stable macroeconomic conditions; and b) an adequate system of
incentives that is conducive to fiscal responsibility and efficiency in the delivery of public
services -- mainly a transparent system of inter-government transfers and the elimination
of sources of quasi-deficit financing. Argentina's reform program has passed two
difficult tests already by weathering deep financial crises in 1994-95 and 1998-99. The
change in the national authorities in December 1999 will be the next challenge.
2     "Argentina Provincial Finances" Update 1998, LCSPR, June 30, 1998.



v
10.   Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance: The performance of both
the Bank and the Borrower has been highly satisfactory in most stages during the life of
the project, especially when considering that, as a multi-sectoral program lending to
provincial governments, the PDP-I was a pioneer. Project preparation was done in close
collaboration with representatives from the provincial governments, which resulted in a
high level of provincial "ownership" of the project. Project supervision was hig;hly
satisfactory, with the Bank working closely with the Borrower on the different challenges
that had to be faced over the life of the project. By 1996, visits to the provinces became
routine during supervision missions. This had a significant impact, as it provided the
Bank with the opportunity to develop a better understanding of the progress and
challenges being faced in different provinces as well as personal relationships with main
actors in the process of reform at the provincial level. The final success of several key
sub-projects, such as Cordoba's cadastre, is the direct result of the Bank's strong and
consistent supervision of the project.  The Borrower's performance during project
implementation was also highly satisfactory, both by the national and provincial
executing units.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   The project has been a central element of the national government's strategy
towards the provinces, introducing the notion of creditworthiness and rewarding fiscal
responsibility, promoting the implementation of the Fiscal Pacts, and introducing wide
public sector reforms among participating provinces. The experience of the PDP-I
underscores the importance of focusing on sub-national governments to ensure the
success of a country's overall reform program. By having the PDP-I in place, the Bank
was able to help the national government to capitalize on the unique window of
opportunity that opened as a result of the Convertibility Law.
12.   The project objectives have also been met satisfactorily. The project widely
promoted public sector reform among participating provinces, thus effectively
consolidating the sustainability of the country's reform program. The loan's main
achievements include building considerable technical and institutional capacity at the
provincial level, introducing the notion of creditworthiness and rewarding fiscal
responsibility, providing financial and technical assistance to the provinces in sub-
projects aimed at rebuilding the deteriorating infrastructure in the provinces and
enhancing management practices, and setting the foundations for an information system
on provincial finances. Through more than 400 sub-projects in 23 provinces, the PDP-I
did much of the groundwork for provincial reform and set the foundations for their
enhanced fiscal performance. These sub-projects include eight cadastre systems
incorporating more than three-fourths of all parcels in the provinces, the implementation
of the important tax monitoring systems, such as the SICOM (Sistema de Grandes
Contribuyentes con Convenio Multilateral) and the "Grandes Contribuyentes" at the
provincial level, financial administration systems in two provinces, and the rehabilitation
of more than 1,200 km of provincial roads, 84 hospitals, and 214 schools.



vi
13.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future public sector reform projects
for sub-national governments beyond Argentina, can be learned from the implementation
of this Provincial Development Loan:
14.   Sub-national governments are key' elements within the framework of a
country's overall reform program. The medium- and long-term sustainability of a
country's reform program depends on having provincial governments that do not generate
excessive fiscal deficits and are efficient providers of services.
15.   Multi-sectoral loans can be effective tools in doing the groundwork for
reform. This project demonstrates that multi-sectoral loans can effectively combine
wholesale lending with building technical and institutional assistance at the provincial
level and laying foundations for reform. Moreover, multi-sectoral loans can be effective
complements of quick-disbursement operations, such as the PRL-I and II, providing the
technical assistance and physical investments required to support more ambitious reform
programs.
16.   No lending operation can provide per se sufficient incentives for reform. An
adequate system of incentives, such as a transparent system of intergovemment transfers
and the elimination of sources of quasi-deficit financing, are prerequisites for broader
provincial reform.
17.   Capitalize on potential windows of opportunities. By being willing to take a
moderate risk in approving the PDP-I under still unstable macroeconomic conditions, the
Bank was able to help Argentina capitalize on the unique window of opportunity that
opened after the Convertibility Law. Had the PDP-I not been in place, the Bank might
have missed the opportunity to fully support the government in its reform strategy
towards the provinces.
18.   An important role for sub-national governments is critical to the success of
the project. Although the lack of adequate provincial technical and institutional capacity
may result in initial project bottlenecks, sub-national governments enhanced
responsibilities within the project contribute to strong ownership of the project as well as
"hands-on" capacity building.
19.   Simplify as much as possible all review, procurement, and disbursement
procedures. To effectively conduct a wholesale lending operation, it is critical to rely on
agile review, procurement, and implementation procedures. Given the large number of
sub-projects -- more than 270 contracts per year in the case of PDP-I -- and the vast
number of related documents, such as bidding documents, contracts, and terms of
reference, that characterize multi-sectoral projects, simplified procedures are critical to
avoid potential administrative bottlenecks and undue burdens on both the Borrower and
Bank staff.  Bank requirements for procurement and disbursement usually reflect
practices that are more appropriate for traditional projects than multi-sectoral loans.



vii
20.   Do not expect multi-sectoral projects to disburse quickly and easily at first.
Provincial multi-sectoral projects like the PDP-J need to be designed with longer
implementation periods to account for the complex institutional framework of sub-
national governments and the complexity in implementation characteristic of multi-
sectoral loans. At the same time, having a pool of sub-projects ready to go and training
PEUs' staff upfront might help reduce start-up times.
21.   Develop a portfolio of alternative sources of financing for provincial
investment to increase reform leverage. In the case of Argentina, the governmnent was
very effective in developing a portfolio of loans designed to support provincial reformn
efforts by taking advantage of international lending opportunities. To gain refbrm
leverage, it is critical that strict creditworthiness criteria be applied to all lending
available to the provinces, including international lenders.
22.   In terms of supervision, multi-sectoral projects pose a serious challenge given
the large number of sub-borrowers and sub-projects. The experience from PDP-I
indicates that at least semi-annual supervision missions that include visits to the
provinces are necessary to supervise this type of project. Thus, adequate supervision
resources should be made available.
23.   Having the provincial Ministers of Finance as counterparts served to keep
the focus on reform-oriented sub-projects. Being responsible for balancing the
provincial budgets, they were more likely to appreciate the benefits of cadastres, financial
management systems, and other tools for fiscal adjustment.
24.   There are trade-offs in terms of costs and the level of scrutiny of individual
sub-projects in wholesale operations. Although the quality of the individual sub-
projects financed under the PDP-I has been generally satisfactory, it is important to note
that individual sub-projects in a multi-sectoral project do not receive the same level of
attention as in operations with a more limited scope. This is especially relevant given the
high cost of some of the sub-projects, such as the cadastre in Santa Fe which amounted to
US$30.5 million. To improve quality control of the portfolio in multi-sectoral operations,
the subcontracting of supervision activities should be considered as an alternative.
25.   Multi-sector projects require strong coordination across sectors to ensure
that individual subprojects are consistent with the strategies adopted in each sector.
At the country level, it is necessary to ensure the cooperation of the different Ministries,
such as Health and Education, with the project executing unit. Within the Bank, it is
necessary to develop both formal and informal mechanisms of consultations across
divisions.
26.   Cadastre, land and property registries and tax administration sub-projects
have to be conceived as part of an integrated strategy, as their fiscal impact depends
largely on the degree to which these sub-projects are coordinated. Cadastres provide
a complete and up-to-date inventory of land and physical structures, land and property
registries provide the reliable information on the person responsible for the taxes, and an
efficient tax administration ensures the actual tax collection based on information



viii
provided by both cadastres and land registries. There is a "domino effect" phenomenon,
as the failure of one of the components compromises the success of the other ones in
terms of their fiscal impact.
27.   Develop a system of indicators to measure the impact of the project as a
whole, and of individual sub-projects. For instance, require a short evaluation at the
completion of each sub-project comparing the actual impact to the targets that were
specified as part of their evaluation.
28.   Co-financing  lending  operations  with  other  international financial
institutions, such as the IDB, poses additional challenges during implementation.
On the one hand, it makes implementation more difficult for sub-national governments,
which have to deal with two sets of contract and bidding documents at the same time.
More importantly, it makes it very difficult to coordinate the supervision between the two
institutions and to keep a full perspective on the overall program.
29.   Need to disseminate results among provinces to capitalize on the potential for
horizontal cross-fertilization at the national level.
30.   Importance of ensuring the consistency of eligibility conditions among
different sectoral loans.






I
Part I
Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement of Objectives
I.    Towards the end of the 1980s, Argentina was at the brink of macroeconomic
chaos. The heavy state interventionism, inward-looking trade orientation, and disregard
for macroeconomic equilibrium that dominated the macroeconomic policies of the
previous five decades had taken the country's economy to the verge of collapse. Faced
with high inflation, widespread economic stagnation, and massive public sector deficits,
the Menem administration was determined to reduce state intervention, tackle chronic
fiscal imbalances, and increase efficiency at all levels of government.
2.    In its first steps towards reform, the Menem  administration developed an
adjustment program aimed at reducing the public sector deficit and addressing the
underlying structural problems and sources of instability in the country's economy. The
government sought the Bank's financial support and technical assistance to implement
reforms targeting the three major sources of public sector deficit: the central government
itself (including social security and the official banking and finance entities), the national
public enterprises, and the provincial governments. The Provincial Development Project
(PDP-I) was designed to support the government's adjustment program in relation to the
provinces.
3.    As opportunely pointed out by the Bank's "Provincial Government Finance
Study,"3 provincial governments had been responsible for the largest and fastest-growing
portion of the public sector deficit, accounting for 1.4 percent of GDP in 1990. In turn,
provincial fiscal imbalances were a direct consequence of structural deficiencies in the
provincial governments. Provincial taxes were being collected poorly and provincial
spending was highly inefficient, mainly as a result of substantial overstaffing, inadequate
administrative controls, and weak provincial budgeting mechanisms.   Provincial
resources were also being drained by highly inefficient public enterprises, insolvent
provincial banks, and insufficiently-financed provincial pension funds.  Provincial
governments were also ill-prepared to fulfill their increased responsibilities as service
providers and to rebuild the country's physical infrastructure, greatly deteriorated after
decades with no investments.
4.    The Provincial Development Project (PDP-I) was specifically designed to provide
financial support and incentives for provinces to undertake their own adjustment
programs focussing mainly on own-source revenue enhancement and expenditure control
in a manner consistent with the national adjustment program. This operation was
conceived as the first stage of a longer term strategy for adjustment in provincial financial
management and in the relationships between the central and provincial governments. In
the short run, the PDP-I was to serve as a non-inflationary source of financing for
3     "Provincial Government Finance Study," Report No. 8176, April 16, 1990.



2
provincial investments and to introduce management practices aimed at enhancing
provincial financial positions. In the medium and long term, the strategy sought to have
provincial investments entirely financed with provincial savings and competitive
borrowing through the financial sector.
5.    The PDP-I's specific objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR,
November 21, 1990), were:
a)    implement appropriate financial management reforms that will transform
provincial governments from generators of excessive public sector deficits
to generators of surpluses that may finance public infrastructure and
services necessary to promote economic development;
b)    strengthen provincial governments' capacity to plan, program, finance,
execute and monitor expenditure programs that are economically efficient,
financially sustainable, institutionally manageable, and environmentally
sound; and
c)    provide financing for institutional development and physical investments
that are consistent with the national adjustment program and that will
promote economic development.
6.    The project financed sub-projects under two components: (a) institutional
development (expected to amount to about 10 percent of total project costs); and (b)
physical investments (expected to account for about 81 percent of the total project costs).
The institutional development component included technical assistance, training and
equipment, with an emphasis on sub-projects aimed to enhance public sector management
and revenue collections, such as cadastres, tax administration, and financial
administration systems. The physical investments component included public
infrastructure (e.g., roads, bridges, drainage, water supply and sanitation) and facilities
(e.g., schools, health posts, bus terminals, etc.), with an emphasis on maintenance
programs, rehabilitation and completion of existing and unfinished works. Project
administration costs, including the recurrent costs of project implementation at the
national and provincial levels, were expected to account to about 9 percent of the total
project costs.
7.    The total project costs were estimated at US$575 million equivalent, with the
IBRD and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) co-financing US$200 million
each, or 75 percent of the total costs. The participating provinces were responsible for
co-financing the remaining 25 percent of the total project cost. The national government
of Argentina was the borrower and the proceeds of the IBRD and IDB loans were onlent
to the provinces participating in the project under the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. All provinces, as well as the Municipality of Buenos Aires and the Territory
of Tierra del Fuego, were potentially eligible to participate in the project.
8.    The operation was structured as a multi-sectoral loan that on-lent project funds to
provincial governments for sub-projects based on eligibility criteria set for the provinces



3
and the sub-projects themselves. Provincial eligibility was tied to the approval of a
"Financial Action and Investment Plan" (FAIPs), which provided the overall conceptual
framework for provincial reform and detailed a concrete action plan aimed at achieving or
maintaining a current account surplus and improving overall fiscal performance.4 Sub-
projects to be financed under the program had to be part of an approved FAIP. They also
had to be technically sound, economically efficient, financially sustainable, and
environmentally adequate. Only provinces with a current account surplus were eligible
for new investments.
9.     Each province was assigned an initial allocation of funds for the first two years of
the project's implementation (see Table 9).  After that period, the provinces lost
guaranteed access to their initial allocation and those funds that had not been utilized
were reallocated based on performance of the province in project implementation.
Provinces not meeting specific creditworthiness conditions were eligible for only half
their initial allocation, with the other half going to a "pool" that would be made available
to provinces having fully used their initial allocation on a "first come, first served" basis.5
10.   The programn followed the "demand-driven" approach that is characteristic of
multi-sectoral loans, as opposed to the "supply-driven" approach of traditional loans in
which investments are determined a priori.   Each province was responsible for
identifying and selecting individual sub-projects according to its own need assessment.
Thus, the portfolio of specific sub-projects was not defined at appraisal but evolved over
time.
11.    The project as designed, with its emphasis on flexibility, was highly effective in
addressing the wide range of needs and capacities among provinces and the general lack
of data on provincial finances at the time. While eligibility criteria ensured that the
overall objectives of the program were met, the PDP-I provided a flexible framework that
allowed provinces to assess their individual needs over time and to prepare and
implement specific sub-projects tailored to these needs. Also, by allocating resources
based on performance, the project fostered competition for loan funds among provinces
and provided incentives for the agile preparation and presentation of sub-projects.
Finally, the creditworthiness criteria introduced through the project provided a good
approximation of market conditions, thus serving as an intermediate step toward the long
4      In its FAIP, each province had to describe the rationale for the province's participation in the
project, the expected contribution towards the overall provincial strategy of each of the subprojects to be
financed under PDP-I, as well as a concrete action plan for: a) maintaining or obtaining a current account
surplus; and b) provincial revenue enhancement and/or expenditure reduction. The FAIP was prepared by
the province and approved by the central government's Ministry of Interior and the Bank.
5      In particular, a province could only access its entire initial allocation of funds provided that it
could demonstrate adequate provincial financial management performance, defined as follows: (a) a current
account surplus during the last executed budget period; (b) an acceptable plan to consolidate all extra-
budget debt in the formal provincial budget, or subject to the Bank's acceptance, within a maximum of five
years; (c) total existing and proposed provincial debt not to result in a total debt service (including
amortization, interest and other financing charges) obligation greater than 15% of total provincial current
revenues; and (d) negative net variation in short term assets and liabilities not to exceed 20% of total
revenues.



4
term goal of provincial governments' access to private financial markets.
B.    Achievement of Overall Project Objectives
12.   The PDP-I has been highly successful in introducing the agenda of public sector
reform and prudent fiscal behavior among provincial governments at a time when chronic
fiscal imbalances were routinely being financed by ad hoc transfers, fiscal and quasi-
fiscal deficits and the inflation tax. The project has also been very successful in building
technical and institutional capacity at the provincial level. Through the numerous sub-
projects in its portfolio, the project has also provided continuous support to the provinces
since they took their first steps towards fiscal autonomy, prudent financial management,
and efficiency in the delivery of services. Finally, the PDP-I has been the cornerstone of
the Bank's provincial portfolio, amounting up to US$1.75 billion in 1998.
13.   To better understand the PDP-I, it should be likened to an immense technical
assistance loan (TAL). The PDP-I has provided technical and financial support to
provincial governments as they implemented the management tools that were necessary to
be able to eventually implement more ambitious reforms. The physical investments that
were financed under the program were relatively small, thus cannot be expected to have
the same impact as the financial incentives attached to a structural adjustment loan
(SAL). (The relatively modest magnitude of the financial incentives of the PDP-I is
illustrated by the fact that the total cost of physical investments financed under the
program amounts to only 7 percent of the consolidated provincial spending in capital
expenditures in 1997.)6
14.   It is also important to underscore the vital role the PDP-I has played in
complementing the other reform loans that carried a much stronger mass of incentives,
such as the First and Second Provincial Reform Loans (PRL-I and II). Through the PRL-I
and II, the Bank worked closely with the top provincial authorities of a selected group of
reform-minded provinces in the design of a strategy for provincial reform and provided
them with strong financial incentives for the adoption of an enabling policy framework
within a short time frame -- i.e., three years. Concomitantly, the PDP-I worked with
provincial functionaries in crafting and adopting the operational tools required to carry
out these reforms, a sustained effort which lasted almost ten years. Therefore, in those
provinces with the strong vocation for reform, the PDP-1 played a key role in doing the
field work that guaranteed the operationalization of the drastic reforms introduced under
the PRL-I and II. In those provinces with less vocation for reform, the PDP-1 focused on
building the foundations that would eventually enable them to undertake a more drastic
adjustment.
15.   The PDP-I had an excellent coverage, with only one province not participating in
the project (i.e., Santa Cruz, which is now participating in the PDP-II). Most provinces
exceeded amply their initial allocation of funds (see Table 9). The few exceptions were
6     The cost of all physical investment sub-projects financed under PDP-I over almost 8 years amounts
to US$320 million. The consolidated capital expenditures for the 24 provincial jurisdictions in 1997
amounted to US$4,360 million.



5
Buenos Aires and the Municipality of Buenos Aires which can rely on their sizable own-
revenues and direct access to private and IDB lending, La Rioja which has higher levels
of discretionary transfers compared to other provinces, and other provinces such as
Santiago del Estero and Jujuy which have made more modest progress towards public
sector reform.
16.   Macroeconomic Policies: Substantial Achievement. The PDP-I has effectively
contributed towards the stabilization of Argentina's economy and the sustainability of the
overall reform program by promoting reform among provincial governments and
supporting the implementation of basic management tools and investments conducive to
reorient provincial public spending in ways that increased productivity and efficiency in
the delivery of services while strengthening fiscal positions in the provinces. Overall, the
primary deficit of the provinces has been reduced from 1.6 percent of the GDP in 1990 to
0.1 percent in 1997. 7 This, in turn, has contributed towards the sustainability of the
country's overall reform program. The PDP-I's specific contribution has been to
introduce the concepts of creditworthiness and fiscal responsibility at the provincial level,
promote the implementation of the Fiscal Pacts, and support the decentralization efforts,
mainly education and health, that were key in achieving the adjustment at the federal
level. The PDP-I was also responsible for setting the foundations for the country's
information system on provincial public accounts and debt stock.
17.   Financial Objectives: Partial Achievement. The provincial fiscal situation has
improved considerably since the early 1990s. Provincial governments are no longer
generators of excessive public sector deficits, with over half of the provinces registering
surpluses or minor deficits in 1997 (see Table 22). Own-source revenues for all
provinces have increased by 13 percent in real terms between 1994 and 1997, while
personnel expenditures have increased by only 2 percent over the same period (see Tables
20 to 21).9
18.   The PDP-1 cannot, of course, claim full responsibility for the enhanced provincial
performance, as it depends on multiple factors, many of which are macroeconomic. All
the sub-projects in the PDP-I portfolio were designed specifically to improve financial
provincial management and have a positive impact on provincial finances. For those sub-
projects for which there has been a systematic follow-up of the financial impact, results
are highly satisfactory from a technical standpoint. For instance, for those provinces that
have completed their cadastre sub-projects, the cost of the cadastre sub-projects can be
recovered on average in less than 15 months. It is important to note, however, that most
of these sub-projects have been completed recently; thus the increased billing has not yet
translated in all cases into increased receipts. This, of course, will ultimately depend on
the provincial governments' will to implement an aggressive tax enforcement strategy.
As of today, only one province has translated the increase in the tax base into actual fiscal
7     "Argentina Provincial Finances" Update 1998, LCSPR, June 30, 1998.
s      Seven provinces registered a surplus, while six provinces registered a deficit of less than 6 percent
of current revenues (Argentina Provincial Finances, Update '98).
9     The evolution of the provincial financial situation is done relative to 1994, as this is the year when
the project implementation gained momentum.



6
gains (see Table 17.b).
19.   How to assess the impact of the project itself is a challenge posed by multi-
sectoral projects in general. Although fiscal performance indicators are generally used to
measure the overall impact of this type of project, they lack validity as it is almost
impossible to separate the effect of multiple factors, including overall macroeconomic
conditions, from the impact of the project itself. Therefore, it would be important to
develop a system of indicators to measure the impact of multi-sectoral projects based on
the impact of individual sub-projects without creating an excessive burden on the sub-
borrowers.
20.   Physical Objectives: Substantial Achievement: There were  55 physical
investment sub-projects with a weighted IERR of 39 percent financed under the PDP-I,
amounting to US$320 million or 56 percent of the overall provincial portfolio (see Tables
12, 13 and 14).10 Maintenance and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure accounted for
most of the physical investments -- US$244 million or 76 percent. Under the PDP-I, the
provinces started to rebuild their basic infrastructure -- roads, education, and health --
which was highly deteriorated after years of desinvestment. The rehabilitation of roads
accounts for 53 percent of all physical investment sub-projects, with the rehabilitation of
more than 1,200 km of provincial roads. Health-care facilities follow in terms of their
relative importance, accounting for 20 percent of the physical-investments portfolio, with
the rehabilitation and maintenance of more than 84 provincial hospitals serving more
than 130,00 in-patients per year (see Table 15). Schools accounted for 18 percent of all
physical investments, with the rehabilitation and maintenance of more than 214 schools
serving more than 80,000 students (see Table 16). Other physical works include water
and irrigation, municipal infrastructure, and recreation facilities. In the case of upgrading
schools and health care facilities, it was required that the entire network of services be
analyzed as a whole in order to establish priorities and action plans on a regional scale.
Once financing for specific sectors became available through other Bank projects, those
investments were no longer eligible under the PDP-I.
21.   The demand for physical investments was less than anticipated (51 percent
compared to 80 percent of total project costs; see Table 5.a). There is a wide variation
among provinces in terms of the split between institutional development and physical
investment sub-projects. Almost half of the provinces chose to limit the use of program
funds to institutional development sub-projects exclusively.  The decision to stress
institutional development was linked to the interlocutors in the provinces, who were
mainly Ministers of Finance rather than Ministers of Public Works. Only a third of all
provinces chose to emphasize physical investments over institutional development. In
particular, physical investment sub-projects accounted for 94 percent of the overall
provincial portfolios in La Pampa, and above 75 percent in Catamarca, Chaco, Corrientes,
10     The weighted IERR was calculated for a sample of sub-projects with a total cost of US$50 million,
or 15.8 percent of the physical-investment portfolio. The IERRs for the individual sub-projects in the
sample were calculated ex-ante, as part of the sub-project estimation. The sectors represented in the
sample -- education, health, and roads -- accounted for 91.6 percent of all investments in the investment
portfolio.



7
Mendoza, Neuquen, and San Luis (see Table 11).
22.   Out of the US$200 million corresponding to the PDP-J, US$34 million were later
assigned to emergency works aimed at ameliorating the damage caused by massive floods
in 1992 and 1997 ($20 million in amendment of August 1992 and $32 million in
amendment of November 1997). Eligibility for physical works under this component was
based on the severity of the flood damage in each province rather than on the criteria
established under the PDP-I.
23.   Public Sector Reform: Substantial Achievement. As consistently reported by
provincial authorities, this is the area in which the project has made its central
contribution. It has successfully accomplished its original objectives promoting sound
management practices, and increasing the efficiency in the delivery of services. As a
result, participating provincial governments are now considerably stronger, and more
efficient. Moreover, the attitude of government officials and provincial administrators
has been drastically transformed, with a new awareness regarding the importance of
sound public administration.
24.   There have been 318 institutional-development sub-projects financed under the
program, amounting to US$195 million or 35 percent of the overall portfolio (see Table
12). There is great diversity in terms of the types of individual sub-projects, as they reflect
to a large degree the needs of each province. In general, institutional development sub-
projects fall in two categories: technical assistance and "strategic" sub-projects. The first
ones are smaller, clearly-defined sub-projects that usually involved contracting an
individual consultant to provide expertise on a specific area. This type of sub-projects
were very common during early stages of the project to conduct feasibility studies of
potential physical investments or even to prepare other institutional development sub-
projects requiring a specific know-how.
25.   The second type of institutional development sub-projects, so-called "strategic,"
were considerably larger, more ambitious interventions aiming at providing provinces
with the basic tools required to improve their financial management. These sub-projects
addressed three main objectives: a) to enhance the quality of the real-estate tax databases
(i.e., cadastre sub-projects and land registries); b) to improve tax administration (i.e.,
revenue mobilization sub-projects); and c) to provide adequate tools for expenditure
control (i.e., financial management systems). The Secretaria de Asistencia para la
Reforma Econ6mica Provincial (SAREP) was very aggressive promoting these strategic
sub-projects, as they were important elements of the national government's strategy
towards the provinces. As a result, they constituted a large proportion of the PDP-I
portfolio, amounting to US$140 million or almost a fourth of the overall provincial
portfolio (see Table 12). The implementation of these sub-projects was also a
conditionality under the PRL (see Table 18).
26.   It can be noted that the design and evaluation of institutional development sub-
projects is more complex than that of physical investment sub-projects. The Central
Executing Unit (CEU) followed the Bank's project evaluation guidelines for physical



8
investment projects but had to develop its own guidelines for institutional development
ones. (The Bank has no comparable instrument for institutional development projects.)
Although adequate, the guidelines were still lacking rigor, especially when taking into
consideration that individual sub-projects amounted up to US$30 million. It is important
to be aware that there are trade-offs in terms of cost and the level of scrutiny of individual
sub-projects associated with wholesale lending.
27.   Cadastre Sub-Projects: These sub-projects amounted to US$99 million, or 18
percent of the overall provincial portfolio.. Cadastre sub-projects were part of broader
strategy by the national government to create a modem tax system in the provinces by
replacing distortive taxes - such as turnover and transfer taxes - with a system based on
real estate, final sales, and vehicle taxes. Although the reform of the national tax system
has been stalled momentarily, up-to-date cadastres at the provincial level provides a
strong institutional foundation to implement a modem provincial tax system.
28.   Cadastres were financed in twenty provinces, of which eight have been completed
and twelve are still being implemented under the PDP-II or with provincial funds. These
eight cadastre subprojects have been highly successful from a technical standpoint,
having incorporated more than 85 millions of square feet and more than 78 percent of all
parcels in these provinces. At an average cost per parcel of $31.50, these cadastres have
numerous geometric, fiscal and legal data for each parcel, thus allowing multiple
applications (see Table 17.a).
29.   In general, cadastre sub-projects have been very difficult to implement due to their
complexity, both in technical and political terms. The Bank has been very persistent in its
supervision, ensuring that the cadastre sub-projects were brought to completion while
maintaining a focus on the fiscal impact. Such effort has paid off, as the average increase
in the real-estate tax base was 33 percent between 1994 and 1997 in those provinces
where the sub-projects have been completed (see Tablel7.b). In terms of the fiscal impact
of these sub-projects, it is important to note that the increased tax base resulting from the
cadastre sub-projects constitutes a necessary but not a sufficient condition for increased
revenues. In fact, only in Chaco actual revenues has matched the increase the tax base --
102 percent and 93 percent respectively between 1994 and 1997. In the remaining
provinces, the fiscal impact of the cadastres is still pending and will depend on provincial
authorities being willing to undertake aggressive tax administration policies.
30.     Tax Administration Sub-Projects: As a result of tightening federal transfers,
provinces had to start focusing on increasing the collection of provincial taxes, primarily
real state taxes. To this effect, 39 different sub-projects aimed at enhancing institutional
capacity of the provinces to collect taxes were implemented. These sub-projects followed
different strategies, including the adoption of the National Tax Agency (DGI) program for
monitoring, inspecting and auditing the nation's largest VAT taxpayers", the
implementation of a control system designed to monitor the largest taxpayers responsible
for Ingresos Brutos operating in more than one jurisdiction (Sistema de Grandes
11    The technology developed for DGI was transferred to the provinces with support partly from the
Bank-financed Second Tax Administration Loan (Ln. 3460-AR).



9
Contribuyentes con Convenio Multilateral -- SICOM), and improving the overall
administration of provincial taxes, as in the case of Entre Rios. As a result of these sub-
projects, the number of taxpayers being monitored increased significantly in the most
provinces, both for VAT and Ingresos Brutos. In the case of Ingresos Brutos, the
revenues from taxpayers administered under SICOM have increased at twice the rate as
revenues from Ingresos Brutos as a whole between 1995 and 1998 (60.8 percent
compared to 31.8 percent respectively), with saving in financial costs of approximately
US$5 million per year. All these actions had a positive effect on increasing own-source
revenues and have been one of the factors contributing to the aggregate increase in
revenues of 13 percent in all own-source revenues between 1994 and 1997 (see Table 20).
31.   Cadastre, land and property registries and tax administration sub-projects are
highly interrelated in terms of their fiscal impact. Cadastres provide a complete and up-
to-date inventory of land and physical structures, land and property registries provide the
reliable information on the person responsible for the taxes, and an efficient tax
administration ensures the actual tax collection based on information provided by both
cadastres and land registries. There is a "domino effect" phenomenon, as the failure of
one of the components compromises the success of the other ones in terms of their fiscal
impact. Therefore, the CEU followed an integrated approach and had a special sub-unit
dedicated to this type of sub-projects. This interrelation was somehow damaged when the
strategic sub-projects in a province were being financed and supervised by different
banks.12
32.   Strengthening of Financial Management Systems: To improve accountability
and mechanisms for expenditure control at the provincial level, the SAREP promoted the
transfer to the provinces of financial management and personnel control systems
introduced at the federal level under the Bank-financed Public Sector Reforn Loan
(PSRL, Ln. 3394-AR) and its companion technical assistance loan (PSRTAL, Ln. 3362-
AR). As a result, 14 provinces have developed financial administration sub-projects
through the PDP-1 and II, with funds from the National Secretariat of Finance, or with
their own resources (see Table 18). The financial management systems in the provinces
of Rio Negro and Corrientes have been implemented with PDP-I financing. These two
systems are now fully operational.
33.   Institutional Development: Substantial Achievement. The PDP-I has also been
highly successful in building institutional and technical capacity in the provinces by
requiring that sub-projects submitted by the provinces meet specific standards in terms of
project evaluation, contracting, etc. Also, it has supported capacity building in the
Provincial Executing Units (PEUs) through specific training activities and intemships,
mainly in'the area of project preparation, monitoring, and bidding and procurement.
According to PEU's coordinators responding to a survey conducted by the CEU in 1996,
90 percent of all PEUs have reportedly experienced significant improvements in their
technical capacity and, in all cases, in their basic operating equipment. Although most
12    On the other hand, the strategy of concentrating sub-projects of the same type in one bank was
intended to capitalize on economies of scale in terms of technical assistance.



10
capacity building has occurred within the PEUs, it has also trickled down to the other
provincial agencies through their involvement in specific sub-projects. As it was a
requirement of the program that PEU staff be provincial employees, capacity building
will ultimately have a broader impact as PEU staff resume their functions within the
provincial administration. Moreover, the great demand for technical training and capacity
building that was identified during the PDP-I is being specifically addressed in the PDP-II
through a technical training component that provides a set of intensive courses on project
evaluation, monitoring, management, and other areas as required by the provinces.
34.   Other Project Achievements: The  first operation  to  target provincial
governments, the PDP-I laid the foundations for the subsequent development of the
Bank's lending portfolio targeted to provincial governments. As the Bank's portfolio
developed, the PDP-I was complemented by a series of sector investment operations
aimed at improving the efficiency of service delivery. Also, reform operations were put
in place to provide the necessary financial support to those provinces willing and able to
implement major structural reforms -- the Provincial Reform Loans I and II. In this
context, it is important to point out that without the PDP-I, the development of the IBRD
provincial portfolio -- amounting to US$1.725 billion in 1998 -- would have been much
slower and more difficult. The PDP-I contributed to improving the weak technical and
institutional capacity at the provincial level, introducing the concept of rewarding good
fiscal performance, and providing administrative support, financing sector studies and
project preparation of other programs, including the Caminos Provinciales, Inundaciones,
etc. Finally, the PDP-I introduced provincial governments to the bidding, contracting and
procurement procedures of international financial institutions (IFIs).
35.   It is also important to note that the success of other loans, the Provincial Reform
Loan (PRL) in particular, is closely related to the PDP-I. Specifically, the PDP-I financed
the diagnostic studies assessing the overall situation of the public sector that were carried
out in each of the potential participating provinces. Moreover, the PDP-I served as an
immense technical assistance loan that provided ongoing financial and technical support
to the PRL-I and PRL-II provinces to implement the tools -- cadastre sub-projects,
financial administration systems and tax administration systems -- that ultimately allowed
them to improve their fiscal performance.
36.   Finally, the PDP-I set the foundations for an information system on provincial
finances. Before the PDP-I, there were no data systematically collected on provincial
finances at the national level. A Bank's sector study on provincial finances'3 provided
one of the first diagnosis of the fiscal situation in the provinces. Building upon this study,
the PDP-I set in place a system to systematically collect fiscal data from provincial
governments at regular time intervals and in consistent formats. This information system
has continued to evolve and is now one of the best in Latin America. It is now regularly
used by the national government and the Bank to monitor provincial fiscal performance,
as well as by private financial entities to perform credit scoring for sub-national
governments seeking to access private financial markets.
13    "Provincial Government Finance Study," Report No. 8176, April 16, 1990.



11
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
37.   The loan was implemented at a much slower pace than anticipated, and its original
closing date was extended twice -- from December, 1996 to December, 1997 and later to
December, 1998 -- to allow for the completion of important sub-projects. The second
extension was granted to complete flood control sub-projects to ameliorate some of the
damage caused by "El Nino." The delays in implementation were the result of several
factors, including initial, wide spread, weak institutional and technical capacity at the
provincial level, complex legislative requirements -- i.e., the necessary legislative
approval of subsidiary agreements -- and the shallow commitment to reform in the
provinces during the early years of project implementation. Alternatively, other factors
contributed towards the effectiveness of the project, such as its consistency with the
national government's overall strategy and the Bank's portfolio.
38.   Complex  institutional framework: Under Argentina's  federal system  of
government, provincial governments are highly autonomous. They are governed by their
own constitutions and have their own executive and legislative branches. To participate in
the program, each province had to sign an individual subsidiary agreement that needed to
be approved by the provincial legislature. This process was very cumbersome and time-
consuming, particularly because the PDP-I was one of the first Bank projects of this type
in Argentina.14 It took provinces between one and two years to pass legislation ratifying
these subsidiary agreements. There is also great diversity among provincial governments
in terms of the bidding and procurement procedures that are mandated by each province.
In some cases, provincial procedures are incompatible with those required by the Bank,
thus adding considerable complexity during the first stages of the program.
39.   Complex implementation of multi-sectoral loans: Multi-sectoral projects like
PDP-I are significantly more complex to implement than standard investment loans, such
as those for roads. This is the result of several factors, including: (i) the large number of
potential sub-borrowers -- in this case there was a total of 23 participating provinces; (ii)
the great diversity among sub-borrowers in terms of most relevant indicators, especially
institutional and technical capacity; (iii) the high number of sub-projects -- approximately
370 sub-projects under PDP-I; (iv) the high diversity across sub-projects, covering many
sectors and ranging from roads and hospitals to cadastres and financial management
systems; (v) the majority of the sub-projects were selected after appraisal; and (vi)
institutional development sub-projects -- which tend to have longer implementation --
constituted a far more important proportion of the portfolio than anticipated -- 31 percent
as opposed to 10 percent. The disbursement profile included in the SAR was too
optimistic, and later had to be adjusted to better reflect the dynamics of multi-sectoral
loans. Also, multi-sectoral projects tend to be more expensive to execute and supervise
than traditional loans as a result of their increased complexity and the labor intensity
required to support the high level of municipal involvement sought by the project.
14    The only previous experience with subsidiary agreements had been with the Municipal
Development Project (Loan No. 2920-AR), and, in the case of some provinces, the approval of the
subsidiary agreements for both loans was being sought simultaneously.



12
40.   Macroeconomic environment. When the PDP-I was being prepared, Argentina
had not yet succeeded in achieving macroeconomic stability. In its early steps towards
reform, the Menem administration adopted a stabilization program that relied on a fixed
exchange rate and enhanced fiscal performance. Despite the successful passage of
important legislation aimed at redefining the role of the state, such as the sale of public
enterprises, cuts in subsidies, and limits in the Central Bank's credit to the public sector,
the high interest rates required to support the fixed interest exchange rate continued to
fuel inflation. Thus, the preparation of the PDP-I was done in an environment of
macroeconomic instability, in which the pay-offs from financial "wizardry" and the
inflation tax were far more attractive than the prospects of fiscal reform. As a result, only
a few reform-minded provincial governments were interested in implementing structural
reforms during the early years of the project.
41.   Argentina's drastic reform  program  consolidated with the passage of the
Convertibility Law (April, 1991). As a result, the country's economic performance was
significantly improved and macroeconomic conditions that induced fiscal responsibility
and public management efficiency at all levels of government were finally restored.
However, most provincial governments continued to postpone the adoption of adjustment
measures until the financial crisis that resulted from the Mexican devaluation in
December 1994 and exposed the fragility of the provincial fiscal situation. Under the
pressure of the financial crisis caused by the "Tequila effect" and with an adequate
system of incentives now in place -- such as a more transparent and predictable revenue-
sharing system and the elimination of sources of quasi-deficit financing -- most provinces
recognized the need to undertake structural reforms. The PDP-I, which had been already
in place for almost four years, received renewed attention from the provinces now seeking
financial and technical support to implement reforms. As a result, the disbursement
profile of the PDP-I correlated to the pace of the reforms being implemented at the
provincial level, which gained momentum only after the Tequila effect hit hard towards
the end of 1994 and 1995 (see Table 4 and Figure 1).
42.   Internal consistency of the country's strategy and the IBRD portfolio: With the
passage of the Convertibility Law in April, 1991, the national government also launched a
concerted effort to promote fiscal adjustment in the provinces. Within its own direct
jurisdiction, the national government's efforts were aimed at correcting distortions within
the revenue-shared system, including the reduction of discretionary transfers, and at
eliminating Central Bank rediscounts for provincial banks, a traditional source of
provincial deficit financing. To promote reform within the jurisdiction of sub-national
governments, the national government sought the Bank's assistance in developing a
lending portfolio that provided both technical and financial support to sub-national
governments' efforts to stabilize their public finances, reform their administrations, and
increase their efficiency as providers of public goods and services.
43.   This changed the fate of the PDP-I, which then received renewed attention from
the national government. The PDP-I provided a perfect match to the objectives of the
national government's strategy in terms of its creditworthiness criteria, its flexibility with
regards to the specific sub-projects that could be eligible for financing, and its installed



13
capacity in the provinces through the PEUs (Provincial Executing Units). In this way,
rather than constituting an isolated effort, the project became an integral element within the
country's strategy to reform the provincial public sector. Moreover, to generate sufficient
leverage to induce the provinces to reform, a critical mass of bargaining power was
concentrated on the Undersecretary of Provincial Reform. He was responsible for the
Fiscal Pact negotiations that were carried out by the government, as well as for the entire
package of provincial lending operations with multilateral financing, including the PDP-I.
44.   The IBDR portfolio was also highly consistent, both internally and with regard to
the country's reform strategy towards provincial governments. Eligibility criteria
emphasizing creditworthiness were consistently added to the different loans within the
portfolio, ensuring that provincial governments did not have access to alternative sources
of financing under "softer" conditions. However, it is also important to point out that the
premature approval of the PDP-I follow-up operation -- the PDP-II -- was detrimental to
the implementation of the PDP-I. Once the PDP-I started to gain momentum towards the
end of 1994, the demand for financing on the part of the provinces was overestimated
both by the national government and the Bank. The demand for financing never actually
reached the levels that were anticipated, in part due to the fact that alternative sources of
financing became available to the provinces through IBRD sector operations, direct
lending to some provinces by IDB, and increased access to private markets. As the
transfer of sub-projects from the PDP-I to the PDP-II portfolios was done rather freely
and sub-projects were not consistently canceled when falling grossly behind schedule,
provincial governments were relieved of the need to implement according to schedule or
risk losing financing, thus slowing down the implementation of PDP-I.
45.   Project Costs: Total project costs amounted to approximately US$629 million,
with the IBRD and IDB co-financing US$200 million each as expected (see Tables 5.a
and b). In general, costs have been very much as anticipated, with the exception that there
was far more emphasis on institutional development than anticipated -- 31 percent
compared to 10 percent. The relative low proportion of physical investments in the
portfolio might be partly the result of having the PEUs of many provinces housed in the
Ministry of Finance as opposed to the Ministry of Public Works. Also, there were some
high-cost sub-projects among so-called "strategic sub-projects," such as the cadastre sub-
projects -- for instance, the cadastre for Santa Fe alone had a cost of US$30.5 million, or
6 percent of the total portfolio. Project administration and execution costs, including the
cost of the central unit, the PEUs and external auditing, accounted for approximately 9
percent of total project costs. A high proportion of these costs was spent on informal
technical assistance, from the CEU to the PEUs primarily in sub-project evaluation, and
from the PEUs to the different provincial entities. Also, it is important to point out that
the preparation of some of the Bank's sectoral loans was done with resources from the
PDP-I.



14
46.   Project Sustainability: Likely. It is evidenced from visits to the provirces,
reports from provincial officials, and the concrete actions being taken by provincial
governments that today's idiosyncrasy in most provinces is drastically different from; ten
years ago. At the time the PDP-I was being prepared, reforms were just incipient at the
national level. At the time, provincial governments were generally operated with a total
disregard for fiscal responsibility and efficiency. Provincial accounts were a "black box"
in which the large operating deficits were disguised by quasi-fiscal financing through
provincial banks and the inflation tax. After a slow start, the process of provincial reform
eventually took momentum after the Mexican crisis in December 1994 and has continued
to deepen since then. With the support of the Bank's provincial portfolio, sixteen
provinces have privatized their banks and the provinces are no longer generators of large
public deficits -- the overall primary deficit of the provinces was only 0.1 percent ol the
GDP in 1997.15  The PDP-I did much of the groundwork for provincial reform by
building technical and institutional capacity at the provincial level and by introducing the
concept of creditworthiness and the practice of rewarding fiscal responsibility. It also
provided financial and technical assistance to the provinces for sub-projects aimed at
rebuilding their deteriorated infrastructure and enhancing management practices. The
fact that almost all sub-projects continued to be implemented by the new provincial
administrations coming to office indicates the acceptance of the tenets of the PDP-I
across different political affiliations. The improvements that resulted from the PDP-I and
the process of provincial reform in general are likely to be sustained over the long term,
assuming the continuation of: a) stable macroeconomic conditions; and b) an adequate
system of incentives that is conducive to fiscal responsibility and efficiency in the
delivery of services -- mainly a transparent system of inter-government transfers and the
elimination of sources of quasi-deficit financing. Argentina's reform program has passed
two difficult tests already by weathering deep financial crises in 1994-95 and 1998-99.
The change in the national authorities next October 1999 will be the next challenge.
D.    Bank Performance
47.   Project Identification: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank correctly diagnosed the
need to promote public sector reforms among provincial governments. Given that the
groundwork for provincial reform was just beginning, the Bank correctly designed the
operation as a multi-sectoral loan designed to provide small incentives to those provinces
willing to take some steps towards improving their efficiency and fiscal situation. It is
also important to note that there were no other lending instruments available at the time.
The Bank changed its policy only recently to permit adjustment lending to be directed to
sub-national governments.
48.   Project Preparation:  Satisfactory. The Bank's performance was satisfactory
with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of project, identifying a potential
demand for financing at the provincial level and linking it to a system of incentives that
15    "Argentina Provincial Finances" Update 1998, LCSPR, June 30, 1998.



15
rewarded provincial creditworthiness. However, the demand for project funds only
materialized after macro-economic stability was achieved in 1993. The Bank also allowed
for a high level of flexibility in terms of the specific sub-projects to be financed as a way
of maximizing the project's attractiveness to provincial governments, and envisioned an
active role for the provinces. Project preparation was done in close collaboration with
representatives from the provincial governments, which resulted in a high level of
provincial "ownership" of the project. Even today, almost ten years after, those who
participated in the preparation of the project remember the experience as a successful
team effort between the Bank and provincial staffs. Finally, it is important to point out
the difficulty of preparing the first lending operation targeted to provincial governments
in Argentina which meant, among other things, having almost no data available on
individual provincial accounts.
49.   Project Appraisal: Satisfactory. During appraisal, the Bank took into account
various risks that could affect the project and set up mechanisms within the project to
mitigate them, including spreading risk among different provinces. The Bank also set up
agile and innovative mechanisms to facilitate the supervision of the project, relying on
private auditing firms and enhancing provincial autonomy and responsibilities. However,
the Bank was too optimistic regarding the pace at which the project could be
implemented, including the time required to pass the required provincial legislation, build
up the capacity of the Provincial Executing Units (PEUs) to the level required to
implement such a complex project, and put in place a pipeline of sub-projects.
50.   The low demand for project funds during the years prior to the Convertibility Law
suggests that the project would not have performed well in the absence of the
macroeconomic stability that was later achieved. This raises the question of whether the
Bank assessed properly the risk of an unstable macroeconomic environment. To gain
additional insights, it is useful to pose this question as a decision analysis problem, in
which alternative decisions can be assessed based on the probabilities and outcomes that
are associated with each decision (see Figure 2).
51.   Given that structural adjustment operations targeted to sub-national governments
were not an option at the time, the Bank management was confronted with two alternative
courses of actions: approve or not approve the project. For each of the two courses of
action, approve or not approve the PDP-I, there were two uncertain events: stable or
chaotic macroeconomic conditions prevailing in the short or medium run with a
probability of P1 and (1 - PI) respectively. Four alternative outcomes were possible. The
best possible outcome was to approve the project and later achieve macroeconomic
stability. In this way, once the macroeconomic conditions were conducive to reform, the
project would already be in place, providing the support that provinces needed to
implement reforms. Alternatively, the worst outcome was for the project not to be
approved, and macroeconomic conditions eventually becoming stable. Given the time
needed to set up an operation involving numerous sub-borrowers, a unique window of
opportunity for reform among provincial governments would have been lost. Finally, the
gains and loses from the second- and third-best outcomes are relatively insignificant, as
they relate to the opportunity cost of the Bank's resources -- financing and technical



16
assistance -- that would have been wasted had the project not disbursed under
macroeconomic chaos.
52.   As the Menem  administration had already demonstrated its willingness to
implement drastic reforms, the probability of eventually achieving macroeconomic
stability was greater than zero. Thus, given the high stakes involved in capitalizing or
missing out on a rare window of opportunity and the relatively low loses and gains of the
second- and third-best alternatives, approving the project was the most rational decision
using either a maxi-max and a mini-max decision criterion. 16
53.   The conclusion that, by approving the project, the Bank assessed correctly the
macroeconomic risk is consistent with the last Argentina's Country Assistance Review
(CAR, Report No. 15844, June 28, 1996). Two of the report's main conclusions state
that: a) the Bank had been too slow in restoring lending to Argentina in 1990-91; and b)
insufficient attention was given to the transfer of responsibilities in the provision of
services to provincial governments without an adequate assessment of their financial and
institutional capabilities in the early 1990s. The PDP-I loan was the exception by being
the first, and until 1994, the only operation directly aimed at enhancing provincial
performance. Moreover, the PDP-I was the cornerstone on which the Bank eventually
developed its provincial portfolio.
54.   Project Supervision: Highly Satisfactory. Bank supervision was reported by
the Borrower as being highly satisfactory and described as a team effort between the Bank
and the Borrower. The Bank worked closely with the Borrower on the different
challenges that had to be faced over the life of the project. At first, emphasis was placed
on getting the project in place in each of the provinces, including approving subsidiary
agreements and setting up the PEUs. In the next stage, the challenge was to develop a
critical mass of sub-projects, for which emphasis had to be placed on sub-project
preparation and evaluation. The early stages of project implementation were considerably
more complex than anticipated, which resulted in significant delays in disbursements.
The project's task managers were strong defenders of the project at headquarters. Since
the approach of the PDP-I was highly innovative, there was little understanding at the
time of the complexities of multi-sectoral projects lending to multiple sub-national
governments relative to the traditional centralized, supply-based physical investment
projects.
55.   As the demand for project financing consolidated, the next challenge was to
manage and monitor the large portfolio of sub-projects. The Bank worked closely with
the CEU in developing a reporting and monitoring system that allowed the CEU to keep
track of the progress of each provincial portfolio, as well as to identify individual sub-
projects that demanded close monitoring.17  The Bank also pressed for the systematic
16    The maxi-max criterion seeks to maximize potential gains, while the mini-max criterion seeks to
minimize losses.
17    The portfolio monitoring system was based on the Pareto ABC's concept. Those sub-projects
amounting to 70 percent of the overall portfolio were designated as critical, and placed under close
monitoring. For instance out of a portfolio of 125 institutional development sub-projects under



17
assessment of the technical capacity of each PEU, which allowed for the correction of
serious bottlenecks in several provinces. More importantly, the Bank had a important
presence in the provinces themselves. By 1996, visits to the provinces becarne routine
during supervision missions. This had a significant impact, as it provided the Bank with
the opportunity to develop a better understanding of the progress and challenges being
faced in different provinces as well as personal relationships with main actors in the
process of reform at the provincial level. The final success of several key sub-projects,
such as Cordoba's cadastre, is the direct result of the Bank's strong and consistent
supervision of the project.
56.   One of the lessons learned from the implementation of the PDP-I is the need to
guarantee an adequate level of coordination across sectors to ensure that subprojects
financed under a multi-sectoral program are consistent with the strategies adopted in each
sector. As sector loans started to become available to provincial governments, it was
necessary to set in place mechanisms of consultation involving other Ministries, such as
Health and Education, as well as the corresponding divisions responsible for the sector
operations within the Bank. The level of cooperation between the CEU and other
Ministries varied for each sector, being highly successful for health and roads sub-
projects and less successful for education sub-projects. Within the Bank, initial mistrust
and sector "turf' were eventually overcome and a good working cooperation was
achieved through both formal and informal networks.
57.   Finally, it is important to point out some of the consequences of IDB's co-
financing of the program in terms of its implementation and supervision. On the one
hand, it made implementation more difficult for the provinces, which had to deal with
two sets of contract and bidding documents at the same time. More importantly, it was
very difficult to coordinate the supervision between the two institutions, although the
IBRD's task manager consistently contacted the IDB during supervision missions. As a
result, each bank concentrated mainly on the part of the portfolio that it financed, having
only a partial perspective of the overall program. It was also difficult to enforce specific
strategies, for instance limiting the use of individual consultants, as financing was sought
from the bank that provided less resistance at the time. The more damaging impact
resulted from having the strategic sub-projects within the same province financed by
different banks. For instance, tax administration sub-projects were financed mainly under
IDB. As a result, it was very difficult to guarantee an adequate level of interaction with
cadastres and property-registers sub-projects that were financed by the IBRD. The
approach followed under the Second Municipal Development Project (MDP-II), where
each province was designated to work with one of the two banks, appears to have been
more effective.
implementation in July 1996, 70 percent of the total pending disbursement was concentrated in only eight
sub-projects. Similarly, only six sub-projects represented more than 70 percent of all pending
disbursements for physical investment sub-projects. In the same way, the system allowed for the
identification of stalled sub-projects that were candidates for possible cancellation.



18
E.    Borrower Performance
58.   Preparation of the Project: Highly Satisfactory. Participating provinces played
a very active role in the preparation of the project. A team of top-notch professionals
representing different provincial governments was responsible not only for contributing
its views to the project design but for drafting its own Project Manual, bidding, and
contracting documents.  The strong involvement of the provinces at this stage of
preparation helped to enhance project design and stakeholders' ownership.
59.   Project Implementation: Highly Satisfactory. The project had a Central
Executing Unit (CEU) at the central level and a Provincial Executing Unit (PEU) at each
of the twenty-three participating provinces. The CEU was established in the Ministrv of
Interior under the Secretariat for the Economic Reform of the Provinces (SAREP) which,
through its Secretary, was highly successful in using the PDP-I as a cornerstone for its
strategy towards the provinces and using it as leverage in the negotiation of the Fiscal
Pacts with the provinces.
60.   In terms of the implementation of the project itself, the CEU has effectively
managed the overall program and was highly effective in the negotiation of subsidiary
loan agreements with participating provinces. It also provided substantial technical
assistance to the provinces in the preparation and evaluation of their FAIPs and the
individual sub-projects. The multi-disciplinary group of professionals with expertise in
different areas, such as fiscal policies, tax administration and public finances, made it
possible to increase the quality of individual sub-projects. The CEU has also adequately
monitored the implementation of provincial portfolios and the financial and reporting
activities by participating provinces. Finally, the CEU has acted as the liaison between
the provinces, the national government, and the Bank, in accordance to the role that
originally had been envisaged. Given its excellent record of performance, the CEU was
assigned increased responsibilities by the government, including the administration of
several other IFI-funded projects. To be able to meet adequately the requirements of its
new role and to improve its overall management of the project, the CEU went through
two major reorganizations since the beginning of the project.
61.   The performance of the PEUs has been critical to the success of the project. They
were directly responsible for the management of the project in each province and for
supporting the different provincial entities in the design and implementation of individual
sub-projects. In general, the PEUs have fulfilled their responsibilities as defined under the
project agreement and the project operation manual. They also complied with their
reporting requirements. As could be expected, strong support of provincial authorities
was critical to the performance of the PEUs, as it influenced both the resources available
and their political leverage. However, the PEUs with strong political support were more
vulnerable to changes in the political environment, generally experiencing isolation or
considerable staff changes under the next administration.



19
62.   During project preparation, it was envisioned that the existing Forum  of
Ministers'8 would serve as a consultative board to promote national and local
coordination, the dissemination of innovations and lessons learned in problem solving,
and homogeneous procedures in project implementation among the different provinces.
This was actually done only during the early and final stages of project implementation.
Alternatively, the SAREP took a much stronger role in determining the overall direction
of the program in the years that followed the passage of the Convertibility Law.
63.   Compliance with Covenants: Satisfactory. Compliance with legal covenants
was satisfactory. Over the life of the project, compliance with the stipulated covenants
and agreements was generally met. The quality of the reports improved significantly
during the last two years of implementation, offering a clear and complete picture of the
progress of the program. It is important to point out, however, that the role of the FAIPs
as master plans for provincial reform was significantly weaker than anticipated. Although
the first FAIPs were the result of rigorous work on the part of the provinces, they quickly
became outdated under the unstable macroeconomic conditions prevailing at the time.
Despite the Bank's objections, the FAIPs became a mere formality consisting primarily of
a list of the sub-projects being financed under the project. This situation was finally
reversed in 1997, when the CEU required provinces to develop their overall conceptual
framework for reform as part of their FAIPs, as it was originally intended.
F.    Assessment of Outcome
64.   Overall Rating: Satisfactory. The project has been a central element of the
national government's strategy towards the provinces, introducing the notion of
creditworthiness and the practice of rewarding fiscal responsibility, promoting the
implementation of the Fiscal Pacts, and introducing wide public sector reforms among
participating provinces.   The project's specific objectives have also been met
satisfactorily. The loan's main achievements include building considerable technical and
institutional capacity at the provincial level, providing financial and technical assistance
to the provinces in sub-projects aimed at rebuilding the deteriorating infrastructure in the
provinces and enhancing management practices, and building an information system on
provincial finance. Through more than 400 sub-projects in 23 provinces, the PDP-I did
much of the groundwork for provincial reform and set the foundations for enhanced fiscal
performance at the provincial level. These sub-projects include eight cadastre systems
incorporating more than three-fourths of all parcels in the provinces, the implementation
of the important tax monitoring systems, such as the SICOM and the "Grandes
Contribuyentes", financial administration systems in two provinces, and the rehabilitation
of more than 1,200 km of provincial roads, 84 hospitals, and 214 schools.
65.   With the PDP-I in place, the Bank was able to help the national government to
capitalize on the unique window of opportunity that opened as a result of the
18    In 1989, the national Ministry of Economy encouraged the provincial Ministers of Economy to
institute a Forum of Ministers in which they would discuss their problems among themselves and the
national authorities.



20
Convertibility Law. Moreover, the PDP-I served as the cornerstone of a large provincial
portfolio that has had a significant impact on the performance of the provincial public
sector. One of the first multi-sectoral operations targeted at provincial governments, the
project's innovative design addressed effectively the complexity of Argentina's provincial
sector and the high level of uncertainty at preparation of the specific needs of the
provinces. Finally, it underscores the importance of sub-national governments for the
overall success of a national reform program. It has served as a model for other
operations, both in LAC and other regions.
G.   Future Operations
The experience from this project suggests that multi-sectoral operations can be extremely
useful in setting up the groundwork for reform among sub-national governments. As the
efforts to reform among provincial governments gained momentum after 1994 and the
demand for project funds increased drastically, the government requested a follow-up
operation. In response, the Second Provincial Development Project (PDP-II, Loan No.
3877-AR) for an amount of $225 million was approved in December 1995. The PDP-II
replicated the PDP-I's model, with slightly more emphasis on institutional development.
The Bank has subsequently focussed on adjustment lending targeted to selected groups of
provinces (PRL-I and PRL-II) with the objective of deepening reforms in those provinces
that have demonstrated the strongest willingness and ability to reform. The PDP-I and II
have provided strong technical and financial support to these provinces as whey
implemented the different actions that were required under the PRLs.
66.   The multi-sectoral approach of PDP I has proven to be a flexible mechanism to
address emerging subnational public sector needs, assisting the country to develop public
policies and strategies in new areas. It allowed the Bank team and the local counterpart
executing unit to address a variety of sectoral issues, for which the Bank did not have a
specific sectoral operation. The multi-sector approach, nevertheless, and as PDP I has
shown, can generate complex administrative procedures and high coordination costs for
the Bank and borrower. In order to maximize the benefits, and taking advantage of the
knowledge gained from PDP I, PDP-II has focussed on sub-projects that are directly
aimed at building the foundations for sound fiscal behavior, both in provinces that are
being included in the Bank's adjustment operations or in those carrying out reforms on
their own. There is still much work to be done in developing up-to-date and efficient
cadastre, tax administration, and financial management systems at the provincial level.
The Ministry of Interior, through its Secretariat for Financial Assistance to the Provinces
(SAFP), is taking the lead in the efforts to continue to promote reform among sub-
national government and, together with the Ministry of Economy, perform an ongoing
monitoring of the fiscal situation in the provinces.
H.   Key Lessons Learned
67.   Experience under the PDP I provided operational and technical lessons. When
preparing multi-sectoral operations targeted to sub-national governments the following
operational lessons from the PDP-I should be taken into consideration:



21
a)    Do not underestimate the start-up time required to approve subsidiary
agreements and set up adequate PEUs in each of the participating
provinces.
b)    Conduct up-front training for PEUs' staff and have a considerable number
of sub-projects ready to go to minimize initial delays.
c)    Limit the sectors to be financed under the project. Although the flexibility
allowed by the PDP-I was justified by the lack of knowledge of the
provincial needs at the time of preparation, the wide range of sub-projects
financed across several sectors added considerable complexity and was
detrimental to ensuring the optimum quality-control of the portfolio.
d)    Start working early on a portfolio management system, both at the national
and provincial levels.
e)    Develop a system of indicators to measure the impact of the project as a
whole, and of individual sub-projects.  For instance, require a short
evaluation at the completion of each sub-project comparing the actual
impact to the targets that were specified as part of their evaluation.
f)    Never approve a follow-up operation until the ongoing operation has
consolidated its implementation and be rigorous in the cancellation of
individual sub-projects that fail to be implemented on schedule.
68.   There are several strategic lessons that are relevant for future public sector reform
projects for sub-national governments beyond Argentina, that can be learned from the
implementation of this Provincial Development Loan:
69.   Sub-national governments are key elements within the framework of a
country's overall reform program. The medium- and long-term sustainability of a
country's reform program depends on having provincial governments that do not generate
excessive fiscal deficits and are efficient providers of services.
70.   Multi-sectoral loans can be effective tools in doing the groundwork for
reform. This project demonstrates that multi-sectoral loans can effectively combine
wholesale lending with building technical and institutional assistance at the provincial
level and laying foundations for reform. Moreover, multi-sectoral loans can be effective
complements of quick-disbursement operations, such as the PRL-I and II, providing the
technical assistance and physical investments required to support more ambitious reform
programs.
71.    No lending operation can provide per se sufficient incentives for reform. An
adequate system of incentives, such as a transparent system of intergovernment transfers
and the elimination of sources of quasi-deficit financing, are prerequisites for broader
provincial reform.



22
72.   Capitalize on potential windows of opportunities. By being willing to take a
moderate risk in approving cne PDP-I under still unstable macroeconomic conditions. the
Bank was able +o hel' Argentina capitalize on the unique window of opportunity that
opened after the Conve-rt.ibilit-y Law. Had the PDP-I not been in place, the Bank might
have missed the opportunity to fully support the government in its reform  stra-egy
towards the provinces.
73.   An important role for sub-national governments is critical to the success of
the project. Although the lack of adequate provincial technical and institutional capacity
may result in initial project bottlenecks, their enhanced responsibilities within the project
contribute to strong ovinership of the project as well as "hands-on" capacity building.
74.   Simplifv as m-uch as p,ossible all review, procurement, and disbursement
procedures. To effectively concduct a wholesale lending operation, it is critical to rely on
agile review, proculrernren. and :.mplementation procedures. Given the large number of
sub-projects -- more than 2/0 contracts per year in the case of PDP-I -- and the vast
number of related docurnents, such as bidding documents, contracts, and terms of
reference, that characterize riulti-sectoral projects, simplified procedures are critical to
avoid potential administrative 'bottlenecks and undue burdens on both the Borrower and
Bank staff.  BanK requirements for procurement and disbursement usually reflect
practices that are more appronrniate for traditional projects than multi-sectoral loans.
75.   Do not expect muiti-sectoral projects to disburse quickly and easily at first.
Provincial multi-sectorall projects like the PDP-I need to be designed with longer
implementation periiods to account for the complex institutional framework of sub-
national governments and the complexity in implementation characteristic of multi-
sectoral loans. At the samrie time, having a pool of sub-projects ready to go and training
PEUs' staff upfront might help reduce start-up times.
76.   Develop a p ortfoiio of alternative sources of financing for provincial
investment to increase re6orrm leverage. In the case of Argentina, the government was
very effective in developing a portfolio of loans designed to support provincial reform
efforts by taking advantage of international lending opportunities. To gain reform
leverage, it is Critical that strict creditworthiness criteria be applied to all lending
available to the provinces, -ncluding international lenders.
77.   In terms of supervi'ion, multi-sectoral projects pose a serious challenge given
the large number of sub-borrowers and sub-projects. The experience from PDP-I
indicates that at least semi-annual supervision missions that include visits to the
provinces are necessary to supervise this type of project. Thus, adequate supervision
resources should be made available.
78.   Having the provincial M[inisters of Finance as counterparts served to keep
the focus on reform-oriented sub-projects.  Being responsible for  balancing the
provincial budgets, they wvere more likely to appreciate the benefits of cadastres, financial
management systems, and other tools for fiscal adjustment.



23
79.   There are trade-offs in terms of quality control and the level of scrutiny of
individual sub-projects in wholesale operations. Although the quality of the individual
sub-projects financed under the PDP-1 has been generally satisfactory, it is important to
note that individual sub-projects in a multi-sectoral project do not receive the same level
of attention as in operations with a more limited scope. This is especially relevant given
the high cost of some of the sub-projects, such as the cadastre in Santa Fe which
amounted to US$30.5 million. To improve quality control of the portfolio in multi-
sectoral operations, the subcontracting of supervision activities should be considered as
an alternative.
80.   Multi-sector projects require strong coordination across sectors to ensure
that individual subprojects are consistent with the strategies adopted in each sector.
At the country level, it is necessary to ensure the cooperation of the different Ministries,
such as Health and Education, with the project executing unit. Within the Bank, it is
necessary to develop both formal and informal mechanisms of consultations across
divisions.
81.   Cadastre, land and property registries and tax administration sub-projects
have to be conceived as part of an integrated strategy, as their fiscal impact depends
largely on the degree to which these sub-projects are coordinated. Cadastres provide
a complete and up-to-date inventory of land and physical structures, land and property
registries provide the reliable infornation on the person responsible for the taxes, and an
efficient tax administration ensures the actual tax collection based on information
provided by both cadastres and land registries. There is a "domino effect" phenomenon,
as the failure of one of the components compromises the success of the other ones in
terms of their fiscal impact.
82.   Co-financing  lending  operations  with  other  international  financial
institutions, such as the IDB, poses additional challenges during implementation.
On the one hand, it makes implementation more difficult for sub-national governments,
which have to deal with two sets of contract and bidding documents at the same time.
More importantly, it makes it very difficult to coordinate the supervision between the two
institutions and to keep a full perspective on the overall program.
83.   Need to disseminate results among provinces to capitalize on the potential for
horizontal cross-fertilization at the national level. The experience of the wide variety
of subprojects financed under PDP I, especially best practice cases, can and should be
analyzed and made available to other potential program clients. This can be accomplished
through promotion at the central level of such experiences, as well as through seminars,
workshops among the provincial representatives, and through publications about sub-
project experiences.



24
84.   Importance of ensuring the consistency of eligibility conditions among
different sectoral loans. The uniformity of Bank policy throughout sectors and between
loans is crucial in order to generate a transparent, uniform, and effective lending
mechanism. The experience of PDP I shows that when Bank loans do not have uniform
lending conditions (terms, lengths, percentage financed etc.) the clients will essentially
gravitate to the loans that offer the best terms and conditions, and not necessarily to the
most appropriate lending instrument.



25
Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment ................................  26
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................ 28
Table 3:      Project Timetable .........      ....................... 29
Table 4:      Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual ...................            30
Table 5.a:    Project Costs ................... 31
Table 5.b:    Project Financing ................... 32
Table 6:      Status of Legal Covenants ......       ............. 33
Table 7:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................     38
Table 8:      Bank Resources: Missions ...................         39
Table 9:      Allocation of Funds Among Participating
Provinces: Initial Versus Actual .41
Table 10:     Cost of Approved Sub-Portfolios by Province:
Overall and IBRD Provincial Portfolios .42
Table 11:     Profile of Provincial Portfolios: Physical
Investments Versus Institutional Development        43
Table 12:     Composition of the Overall and IBRD-Financed
Portfolios .44
Table 13:     Type of Physical Investment Sub-Projects:
Overall and IBRD-Financed Portfolios .45
Table 14:     Economic Rates of Return for a Sample of
Physical Investment Sub-Projects .46
Table 15:     Number of Beneficiaries of Physical Investments
in the Health Sector .47
Table 16:     Number of Beneficiaries of Physical Investments
in Education ................................       48
Table 17.a:   Coverage of Cadastre Sub-Projects .............................. 49
Table 17.b:   Fiscal Impact of Cadastre Sub-Projects ........................ 50
Table 18:     Strategic Sub-Projects Under Implementation ............. 51
Table 19:     Change in Ingresos Brutos: 1994-97 ............................ 52
Table 20:     Change in Own-Source Revenues: 1994-97 ................ 53
Table 21:     Change in Personnel Expenditures: 1995-97 ............... 54
Table 22:     Change in Current Account Surplus: 1994-97 ............. 55
Table 23:     Change in Primary Surplus: 1994-97 ........................... 56



26
Table 1
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives    Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                   /
Sector Policies                                    _
Financial Objectives                         /
Institutional Development        /
Physical Objectives              /
Poverty Reduction                                                     /
Gender Issues                            __
Other Social Objectives                                               /
Environmental Objectives                                              /
Public Sector Management         I
Private Sector Development                                            I
Other                                                                 /
B. Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability           Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                 Highly        Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                     /
Preparation Assistance                             I
Appraisal                                          /
Supervision                        /



27
D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance         Highly           Satisfactory        Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation
Implementation      _
Covenant Compliance                               V
Operation                       i
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of             Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly
Outcome                 Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
if



28
Table 2
Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan Title                   Purpose              Year of              Status
Approval
Preceding operations
1. Municipal Development I       Municipal reform        1988            Closed
(Ln2920-AR)
Following operations
1. Public Enterprise Reform Loan  Public enterprise reform    1993       Closed
(Ln3556-AR)
2. Debt and Debt Service Reduction    Debt reduction      1993            Closed
(Ln3555-AR)
3. Financial Sector Adjustment Loan    Financial adjustment  1993         Closed
(Ln3558-AR)    _              _____
4. Provincial Development Loan    Provincial PS and       1991            Closed
(Ln3280-AR)                       reforms
5. Provincial Development Loan II    Provincial PS and    1995            Ongoing
(Ln3877-AR)                       reforns
6. Municipal Development II       Municipal reform        1995            Ongoing
(Ln3860-AR)
7. Provincial Reform (Rio Negro)  Provincial reformn      1997            Ongoing
(Ln4218-AR)
8. Provincial Reform (Salta)      Provincial reform      1997             Ongoing
(Ln4219-AR)
9. Provincial Reform (San Juan)   Provincial reform      1997             Ongoing
(Ln4220-AR)
10. Provincial Reform (Tucuman)  Provincial reform       1997            Ongoing
(Ln4221-AR)



29
Table 3
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned               Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                June 23, 1988
Preparation                                                                1989-90
Appraisal                                                                 November 21, 1990
Negotiations                                                               November 12,1990
Board Presentation                                                        December 18, 1990
Signing                                                                   February 15, 1991
Effectiveness                                                              July 5, 1991
Project Completion                                   December31, 1996    December31, 1998
December 31, 1997
(revised)
Loan Closing                                         December 31, 1996    December 31, 1998
December 31, 1997
(revised)



30
Table 4
Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Estimated          12.0    40.0    96.0   150.0   183.0   197.0   200.0   200.0   200.0
Actual              0.0     4.5    20.1    38.2    74.5   114.3   152.7   182.1   200.0
Actual as %         0%     11%      21%     25%      41%     58%      76%     91%    100%
of Estimated
Date of Final Disbursement: April, 1999.
Figure 1
Annual Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
60.0
50.0     _
40,0~~~~~t, -S
400- .00 
30.0 
20.0
10.0 
0.0                                ,
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
a E stim ated  EActual



31
Table 5.a
Project Costs:
Estimated Versus Actual
(S$ Million)
Estimated Costs                                Actual Costs
Total Cost                                    Total Cost
Project Component                Local   Foreign  US$ Million       %          Local   Foreign  US$ Million    %
I. Institutional Development        36.7       23.3         60.0      10.4        119.3      75.7          195      31.0
A. Central Government             4.2       1.8          6.0        1.0         n.a.      n.a.          n.a.     n.a.
1. Consultants                4.0       1.0          5.0        0.9         n.a.      n.a.          n.a.     n.a.
2. Goods                      0.2        0.8          1.0       0.2         n.a.       n.a.         n.a.     n.a.
B. Provinces                     32.5      21.5         54.0       9.4          n.a.      n.a.         n.a.      n.a.
1. Consultants               27.9       3.1         31.0        5.4         n.a.      n.a.          n.a.     n.a.
2. Goods                      4.6       18.4         23.0       4.0         n.a.       n.a.         n.a.     n.a.
II. Physical Investments            242.8     222.2        465.0      80.9         94.5       87.1        319.9     50.8
A. Infrastructure               181.5     166.2        347.7      60.5         58.2       53.6        196.9     31.3
1. Maintenance               28.6      28.6         57.2        9.9        42.6       42.6         85.3      13.6
2. Rehabilitation           107.2      107.1       214.3       37.3          1.7       1.7          3.4       0.5
3. Completion                14.3       9.5         23.8        4.1         11.1       7.4          18.5      2.9
4. New Works                 31.4      21.0          52.4       9.1          2.8       1.8          4.6       0.7
B. Facilities                    61.3      56.0        117.3      20.4         36.3      33.6         123.1     19.6
1. Maintenance                9.5       9.6          19.1       3.3        26.5       26.8         53.3      8.5
2. Rehabilitation            35.7       35.8         71.5      12.4          1.1       1.1          2.1       0.3
3. Completion                 4.6        3.0          7.6       1.3          7.0       4.6          11.6      1.8
4. New Works                 11.5        7.6         19.1       3.3          1.7       1.1           2.9      0.5
III. Emergency Flood Works            0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0         25.4      23.2          48.6      7.7
IV. Project Administration(*)        50.0       0.0         50.0       8.7         75.8        0.0         55.8      8.9
Total Project Costs                329.5     245.5         575.0     100.0       269.6      162.8         629.4    100.0
(*) This includes US$40.8 million that have been estimated for the operation of the 23 PEUs with an average of 8 people (as in 2/28/97) over the seven-and-
a half years of project implementation.
Source: Ministry of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



32
Table 5.b
Project Financing:
Estimated Versus Actual
(US$ Million)
Expected                  Actual
Source      Amount                   Amount         %
IBRD             200.0       34.8         200.0       31.8
IDB              200.0       34.8         203.6       32.3
Provinces        175.0       30.4         225.8       35.9
Total           575.0      100.0          629.4      100.0
Source: Ministry of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



33
Table 6
Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Covenant  Present  Original    Revised               Description of                   Comments
Type      Statns     Date        Date               Covenant
2.02(a)       05         C                              The arnount of the Loan may be   In compliance.
withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.02(b)       05         C                              The amount of the Loan may be   In compliance.
withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.02(c)       05         C      05/29/1991              The amount of the Loan may be   In compliance.
withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03         05       NYD                  12/31/1997  The closing date shall be     Loan Closing date was extended
December 31, 1996.            until June 1998. The closing date
will be extended until December 31,
1998 for the emergency component
only.
2.04         05         C                              Borrower shall pay to the Bank a   In compliance.
commitment charge at the rate of
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum.
2.07         05         C      4115/1996               Borrower shall repay the principal In compliance.
amount of the Loan in accordance
with the amortization schedule set
fourth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement
3.01(a)(i)     05         C                              Borrower declares its commitment In compliance.
to the objectives of the Project (i)
carry out Part B of the Project,
through CEU, with due diligence
and efficiency;
3.01(a)(ii)    05         C                              Under the respective Subsidiary   In compliance.
Loan Agreements, cause the
Provinces to perform with due
diligence and efficiency all the
obligations therein set forth,
including the execution of the
FAIPs and eligible Sub-projects.
3.01 (a)(iii)   05         C                             Shall take all action necessary to  In compliance, however, all
carry out Part B of the Project, to  provinces have been asked to prepare
coordinate and manage the     FAIPs following definition of Loan
execution of Part A of the Project  Agreement.
and to enable the Provinces to
perform their obligations in respect
of the Project.
3.01(b)       03         C                              Borrower shall allocate the amount In compliance.
of the Loan, not allocated to Part B
of the Project, among the
Provinces for a two-year period
from the date of this Agreement
according to criteria satisfactory to
the Bank.



34
Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Section   Covenant  Present  Original    Revised               Description of                   Comments
Type      Status     Date        Date                Covenant
3.01(c)      05         C                              Borrower shall relend the proceeds In compliance.
of the Loan so allocated and any
remaining unallocated amounts to
the PTovinces under subsidiary
loan agreements, under terms and
conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
3.01(d)      05         C                              Borrower shall exercise its rights  In compliance.
under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to
protect the interest of Borrower
and the Bank.
3.01(e)      05         C                              Borrower shall carry out, and  In compliance.
cause the Provinces and Eligible
Provincial Entities to carry out, the
Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Manual.
3.02        05         C                              Procurement of the goods, works  In compliance. Ex-post reviews have
and consultants' services are  been performed periodically and no
required for the Project and to be   major problems have been identified.
financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be govemed by the
provisions of Schedule 6.
3.03(a)      05         C                              Maintain a Central Execution Unit Central Executing Unit going
(CEU) in the Under Sec. Of Adm. through a major reorganization. The
And Tech. Coordination of the    second one since the project
Min. of Econ., or any successor,  implementation began.
with staffing, responsibilities and
functions satisfactory to the Bank,
carry out Part B of project and
coordinate project.
3.03(b)      05         C                              Provide all the funds, facilities,   In compliance.
staff and resources required by the
CEU to carry out its functions and
responsibilities in an efficient and
timely manner.
3.04        05         C      03/31/1996              Not later than March 31 and   In compliance.
September 30 of each year,
Borrower, through the CEU, shall
prepare and fumish to the Bank a
report on the execution of the
Project.
3.05(a)      05         C                              Not abrogate, amend or fail to    In compliance.
apply the Manual or any provision
thereof
3.05(b)      05         C                              Cause the Provinces, under the    In compliance.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, not
to fail to apply the Manual or any
provision thereof
3.05(b)      05         C                              Cause the Provinces, under the    In compliance.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, not
to fail to apply the Manual or any
provision thereof



35
Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Section   Covenant  Present  Original    Revised                 Description of                    Comments
Type      Status      Date         Date               Covenanit
3.06(a)       05         C      03/08/1996               Borrower shall, not later than  In compiiance.
March 31 each year starting not   L Last review took place during
later than March 31, 1992,     September 1997 mission.
exchange views with the Bank on: I
(a) the progress of Loan
disbursements and IDB Loan
disbursements.
3.06(b)      05          C                               Borrower to exchange views with  In compliance.
the Bank on the performance of    Review took place during the
CEU and the PEUs in the        m ession on February 17-26, 1997.
implementation of the Project and
the procedures set forth or referred ;
to in the Loan Agreement and the  i
Manual
3.07        05          C                               When presenting a Subsidiary   In coinpliance.
Loan to the Bank for approval,
Borrower, through CEU, shall
fumish to the Bank an application.
in form satisfactory to the Bank.
4.01(a)      01          C                               Borrower shall maintain separate  iIn compliance.
records and accounts in
accordance with sound accounting I
practices on the operations.
resources and expenditures of the
Project of the Provinces, the
Eligible Provincial Entities and
Borrower.     _
4.01(b)(i)     01         C                               Borrower shall have the records   in co,pliance.
and accounts referred to in tle
paragraph (a) of this SectionI
including those for the Specrai
Account for each fiscal vea-
audited.
4.01(b)(ii)    01         C      04/30/1996   04/30/1998  Fumish to the Bank not less than   Report sent to the Bank in April
four months after the end of such   1999.
year, the audit report.
4.01(b)(iii)   01          C                              Furnish to the Bank such other    In compliance.
information as the Bank shail
reasonablv request.
4.01(b)(iv)    01          C                              Reports of auditors shall include  |  compliance.
separate opinions on the
compliance by Borrower, the
Provinces and the Eligible
Provincial Entities with the  i
obligations set forth in this
Agreement, the Manual, the
Subsidiary Agreement and the
Sub-Loan Agreements.
4.01(c)(i)     01         C                               Maintain records and accounts    In compliaince.
reflecting statement of
expenditures.



36
Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Section   Covenant  Present  Original    Revised                 Description of                    Comments
Type      Status      Date         Date               Covenant
4.01(c)(ii)    01         C                               Enable the Bank's representatives  In compliance.
to examine such records.
4.01(c)(iii)   01         C                               Ensure that records and accounts  In compliance.
are included in the annual audit
referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section and that the audit report
contains an opinion by the auditors
as to whether the statements of
expenditures can be relied upon.
6.01(a)      05          C                               The Borrower has entered into    In compliance.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements with
at least three Provinces
representing not less than the
equivalent of at least 25% of the
Initial Allocation.
6.01(b)       05         C                               The Borrower to (i) exempt all    In compliance.
contracts for goods, works and
services from all legal and
regulatory provisions; establish,
provide funds and other resources
for the PEU.
6.01(c)      05          C                               The CEU shall have been        The CEU went through two major
established and staffed in terms    reorganization since the project
satisfactory to the Bank.      began execution.
6.01(d)       05         C                               The Borrower has entered into the  In compliance.
Financial Agency Agreement.
6.01(e)      05          C                               The Manual has been approved by In compliance.
the Borrower in terms satisfactory
to the Bank.
6.02(a)      05          C                               The Subsidiary Loan Agreements  In compliance.
have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and the
Provinces referred to in paragraph
(a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement, respectively, and are
legally binding upon the Borrower
and such Provinces, respectively,
in accordance with their terms.
6.01(b)       05         C                               The exemption referred to in   In compliance.
paragraph (b)(i) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement has been duly
granted and no other action on
behalf of the Borrower, or
Provinces referred to in paragraph
(a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement is required for the
procurement of goods, works and
services in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement ant
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
entered into by such Provinces.
6.02(c)       05         C                               The Provincial Executing Units   In compliance.
have been legally established in
the Provinces referred to in
paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement.



37
Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Section   Covenant  PEresent | Original  Revised            Description of                     Comments
Type      Status      Date       Date             Covenant
6.02(d)      05          C                           The CEU has been legally    In compliance.
_              established by the Borrower.
6.02(e)      05          C                           The Financial Agency        In compliance.                    -
Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Financial
Intennediary and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and
the Financial Intermediary, in
accordance with its terms.
6.02(f)      05          C                           The Manual has been duly    In compliance.
_   f     _             ~~~~~~~approved bv the Borrower. 
Covenant Types-
I =Accounts/Audits                                       8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from           9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                          10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                     covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                                   I I = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the project                         budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                        allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                               12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                                  regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = Not complied with



38
Table 7
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs 
Planned             Revised            Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle                                                                             .
Weeks      US$      Weeks    USS    Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                         0         0          0              52.8    119.4
Appraisal-Board                                  0         0          0               13.5     34.8
Negotiations through Board Approval              0         0          0               6.4      18.5
Supervision                                    114     423.8      156.3             362.5      974
Completion                                    13.5        5.9        4                  0        .1
TOTAL                                       127.5     429.7      160.3             435.2  1,146.8
I It includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.



39
Table 8
Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of            Monthl    Number         Days in        Specialized    Implementation      Development
Projcct.Cycle       Year          of         Field         Staff Skills        Status          Objectives
Project Cycle           Year      Persons                    Represented
Through Appraisal        N/A         N/A          N/A             N/A                N/A               N/A
Appraisal through        N/A         N/A          N/A             N/A                N/A               N/A
Board Approval
Supervision
l               3/91         3                       Mun.icipal &           S                HS
Provincial Dev.
Spec., Eng.
Instit. Dev.,
Urban Spec.
n               1/92         2                      Public Finance,         S                 HS
Urban Spec.
111             5/92         2                      Public Finance,          S                HS
Inst. Dev., Sr.
Urban Spec.
IV              8/92         2                       Sr. Urban Dev.          S                HS
Spec.
V               11/92        2                        Urban Dev.             S                HS
Spec.
VI              4/93          2                       Urban Dev.             S                HS
Spec.
VII              3/94         6                      Public Finance,         S                HS
Proj. Manag.,
Inst. Dev., Urban
Dev., Operations
Spec., Proc.
Spec.
VYI              3/95         2                      Public Finance,          S                HS
Operaction Spec.
LX              10/95         3                        Operations            S                HS
Spec., Cadastre,
Proc. Spec.
X               3/96         4                        TM, Urban              S                HS
Spec., Cadastre
Xi              7/96          4                        Operations            S                HS
Analyst, Urban
Spec., Cadastre,
Inst. Dev.
xn               2/97         2            11        TM, Inst. Dev.          S                 S
XIII             9/97         5            17          TM, Urban              S                S
Spec., Instit.
Dev., GIS Spec.,
Engineer



40
Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
Stage of            Month/    Number         Days in        Specialized    Implementation      Development
Project Cycle       Year         of          Field         Staff Skills        Status          Objectives
Project Cycle           Year      Persons                    Represented
XIV              5/98         4            17        TM, Fin. Spec.,          S                 S
I  I             I    ~~~~~~GIS,
Completion               12/98         1            5              TM                 S                 S
1/ Mission leader.
2/ Key to specialization:
A. Sr. Public Enterprise Specialist
B. Legal Counsel
C. Sr. Country Economist
D. Principal Financial Management Specialist
E. Consultant
F. Sr. Country Officer
Cx Tax Administration Specialist
H. Task Manager



41
Table 9
Allocation of Funds Among Participating Provinces:
Initial Versus Actual
(US$ Million)
Initial Allocation (*)    Actual Use of Funds
Provinces         Amount    % of           Amount   % of Initial
Total                   Allocation
Buenos Aires        41.86        14.9%         12.04        28.8%
Catamarca            5.25         1.9%         28.28       538.6%
Chaco                19.02        6.8%         33.49       176.1%
Chubut               3.01         1.1%          7.48      248.3%
Cordoba             33.82        12.1%         76.47      226.1%
Corrientes           7.09         2.5%         34.79      490.6%
Entre Rios           18.63        6.6%         49.90      267.8%
Formosa              6.95         2.5%         11.53       166.0%
Jujuy                 5.43        1.9%          0.77        14.2%
LaPampa              7.15         2.6%         14.29       199.8%
La Rioja             3.94         1.4%           1.56       39.5%
M.C.B.A.             9.10         3.2%           1.45       16.0%
Mendoza              15.89        5.7%         56.31       354.4%
Misiones             12.61        4.5%         12.80       101.5%
Neuquen               6.64        2.4%         27.06       407.6%
Rio Negro            9.65         3.4%         15.67       162.4%
Salta                7.30         2.6%          3.32       45.5%
San Juan            12.85         4.6%         20.08       156.3%
San Luis             8.71         3.1%          8.63        99.1%
Santa Cruz(**)       3.01         1.1%          0.00         0.0%
Santa Fe            17.03         6.1%         83.69      491.4%
Stgo. del Estero    15.74         5.6%          2.79        17.7%
Tierra del Fuego     0.41         0.1%           1.94     473.9%
Tucuman              9.08         3.2%         10.47       115.3%
Common Pool    244.83           46.6%           0.00        0.0%
Total              525.00      100.0%         514.80         98%
(') Allocations reflect 50 percent reduction for those provinces without a current account
surplus.
(**) Santa Cruz did not participated in the program.
Source: Ministry of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



42
Table 10
Cost of Approved Subprojects by Province:
Overall and IBRD Provincial Portfolios
(US$ Million)
Overall Portfolio       IBRD Portfolio
Provinces                  Amount          %       Amount          %
Buenos Aires                   12.04     2.1%          3.09    25.7%
Catamarca                     28.28      5.0%          2.57     9.1%
Chaco                         33.49      5.9%          8.02    23.9%
Chubut                          7.48     1.3%          1.85    24.7%
Cordoba                        76.47    13.6%         29.54    38.6%
Corrientes                    34.79      6.2%         15.69    45.1%
Entre Rios                    49.90      8.9%          4.59     9.2%
Formosa                        11.53     2.0%          7.31    63.4%
Jujuy                           0.77     0.1%          0.09    11.6%
LaPampa                        14.29     2.5%          6.24    43.7%
La Rioja                        1.56     0.3%          0.44    28.2%
M.C.B.A.                        1.45     0.3%          0.30    20.7%
Mendoza                        56.31    10.0%         20.43    36.3%
Misiones                       12.80     2.3%          4.23    33.0%
Neuquen                       27.06      4.8%          7.58    28.0%
Rio Negro                      15.67     2.8%          9.06    57.8%
Salta                          3.32      0.6%          0.32     9.6%
San Juan                      20.08      3.6%          4.85    24.1%
San Luis                        8.63     1.5%          0.56     6.5%
Santa Fe                      83.69    14.8%          28.06    33.5%
Stgo. del Estero               2.79      0.5%          0.27     9.7%
Tierra del Fuego                1.94     0.3%          1.07    55.1%
Tucuman                        10.47     1.9%          1.17    11.2%
Emergency Flood               48.62     8.6%          37.47    77.1%
Control
Total                        563.55    100%          194.80    34.6%
Source: Ministry of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



43
Table 11
Profile of Provincial Portfolios:
Physical Investments and Institutional Development Components
(US$ Million)
Physical Investments           Institutional                Total
Development
Provinces               US$          %           US$            %            US$       %
Million                  Million                     million
Buenos Aires                0.00        0.0%        12.04          100.0%     12.04    2.1%
Catamarca                  23.08       81.6%         5.20           18.4%     28.28    5.0%
Chaco                      26.59       79.4%         6.90           20.6%     33.49    5.9%
Chubut                      1.92       25.7%         5.56           74.4%      7.48    1.3%
Cordoba                    49.73       65.0%        26.74           35.0%     76.47   13.6%
Corrientes                 26.92       77.4%         7.87           22.6%     34.79    6.2%
Entre Rios                 30.33       60.8%        19.56           39.2%     49.90    8.9%
Formosa                     4.46       38.7%         7.08           61.4%     11.53    2.0%
Jujuy                       0.00        0.0%         0.77           99.6%      0.77    0.1%
LaPampa                    13.41       93.9%         0.88            6.2%     14.29    2.5%
La Rioja                    0.00        0.0%         1.56          100.1%       1.56    0.3%
MCBA                        0.00        0.0%         1.53           99.7%       1.45    0.3%
Mendoza                    48.89       86.8%         7.42           13.2%     56.31   10.0%
Misiones                    1.53       12.0%        11.27           88.1%     12.80    2.3%
Neuquen                    23.33       86.2%         3.74           13.8%     27.06    4.8%
Rio Negro                   4.77       30.4%        10.90           69.6%     15.67    2.8%
Salta                       0.00        0.0%         3.32          100.0%      3.32    0.6%
San Juan                   10.91       54.3%         9.17          45.7%      20.08    3.6%
San Luis                    7.07       81.9%         1.57           18.2%      8.63     1.5%
Santa Fe                   47.00       56.2%        36.69          43.8%      83.69   14.8%
Stgo. del Estero            0.00        0.0%         2.79          99.9%       2.79    0.5%
Tierra del Fuego            0.00        0.0%         1.94           99.8%       1.94    0.3%
Tucuman                     0.00        0.0%        10.47          100.0%     10.47    1.9%
Emergency Control         48.62     100.0%           0.0           0.0%       48.62    8.6%
Total                    368.58     65.40%        194.97         34.60%      563.55   100%
Source: Ministry of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



44
Table 12
Composition for the Overall and IBRD-Financed Portfolios
(US$ Million)
Overall Program                            IBRD-Financed Portfolio
Type of Subprojects                 # of Subprojects Total Cost  % of Total Cost # of Subprojects Total Cost  % of Total Cost
I. Institutional Development                    318       194.99         34.6%                 132        88.74           45.7%
a. Cadastres                                 20        98.58          17.5%                 17        62.32           32.1%
b. Tax Administration                        39        24.80           4.4%                 28         2.51             1.3%
c. Financial Administration Systems            8        15.08          2.7%                  3         7.39             3.8%
d. Institutional Strengthening
i. PEUs                                    63        14.53          2.6%                 32         6.01             3.1%
ii. Other organisms                       188       42.00           7.5%                 52        10.51             5.4%
II. Physical Investments                         55       319.93         56.8%                  23        68.69           35.4%
a. Maintenance and Rehabilitation            39       244.13          43.3%                 12        36.54            18.8%
b. Completion                                  2        9.71           1.7%                  2         6.79            3.5%
c. New Works                                  11       52.94           9.4%                  6        16.54             8.5%
d. Others                                      3        13.15          2.3%                  3         8.82            4.5%
III. Emergency Flood Works                       49        48.62          8.6%                  49        36.81           19.0%
Grand Total                                     422       563.54        100.0%                204        194.24          100.0%
Source: Ministry of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



45
Table 13
Type of Physical Investments Subprojects:
Overall Program and IBRD-Financed Portfolios
(US$ Million)
Overall Program                                IBRD-Financed Portfolio
Type of Physical Investments       # of Subprojects   Total Cost    % of Total        # of Subprojects   Total Cost  % of Total Cost
Cost
Provincial Subprojects                   55                319.93          86.8%            23                  68.69          65.1%
a. Education                           9                  57.92          18.1% (*)         5                 23.30         33.9%(*)
b. Environment and Recreation           1                  0.52           0.2% (*)         1                  0.37          0.5%(*)
c. Health                              10                 65.15          20.4% (*)         1                  2.16          3.1%(*)
d. Municipal (water and sewerage)       1                  1.53           0.5% (*)         1                   1.07         1.6%(*)
e. Roads                               27                169.92          53.1% (*)         9                 25.15         36.6%(*)
f. WaterandIrrigation                  2                   4.88           1.5% (*)         2                  3.69          5.4%(*)
g. Other                               5                  20.01           6.3% (*)        4                  12.95         18.9%(*)
Emergency Flood Works                    49                  48.62         13.2%            49                  36.81          34.9%
Total Physical Investments               104               368.55         100.0%            72                 105.50         100.0%
(*) Relative to the Subtotal for Provincial Subprojects
Source: Ministiy of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



46
Table 14
Economic Rates of Return for a Sample of Physical Investment Sub-Projects
Average Rate of Return Weighted by Investment Cost   39.1%
Sectors in the Sample as %  of All Investment Portfolio = 91.6%
%  of the Sample Relative to All Investment Subprojects   15.8%
Type of Sub-Project                                    Province        Cost        IERR (*)   Weighted    Sector as %
IERR       of All Works
(US$s000)       (%)           (%)            (%)
Education                                                                14,759                        26.4             18.1
Rehabilitation and maintenance of schools        Catamarca              2,336          29.0           4.6
Rehabilitation and maintenance of schools        Santa Fe              12,423          25.9         21.8
Health                                                                    12,079                       23.7             20.4
Rehabilitation and maintenance of hospitals      Santa Fe              12,079          23.7         23.7
Roads                                                                    23,623                        54.9             53.1
Repaving of provincial route No. 51              Buenos Aires           7,493          78.1         24.8
Repaving of provincial route No. 12              Cordoba                3,867          60.2           9.9
Replacement of road maintenance equipment        La Pampa               4,719          18.0           3.6
Repaving and maintenance of provincial routes    La Pampa               2,659          28.9          3.3
Repaving of provincial route No. 6               Santa Fe               2,473          91.8          9.6
Repaving of provincial route No. 10              Santa Fe                 782          31.7           1.0
Repaving of provincial route No. 91              Santa Fe                 946          53.4          2.1
Repaving of provincial routeNo. 26               Santa Fe                 683          21.7          0.6
All Physical Investments Sampled                                         50,460                        39.1             91.6
(*) All IERR were calulated ex- ante.
Source: SAFPA



47
Tablc 15
Number of Beneficiaries of Physical Investments in the Health Sector
|Province  Subproject Description                      Total Cost  Financing    Rehab.   Expansion    New    Hospitals   Beds                 Annual Services
(US$ million) (US$ Million)  (Sq. Meters)  (Sq. Meters) (Sq. Meters)              In-Patients Consultations
Santa Fe   Rehab. and maintenance of provincial hospital      12.2          8.2      28,393         837                     3       682       22,664         418,057
Mendoza   Rehab. Central Hospital (*)                           15          8.7      24,940                                 1       791          n.a.            n.a.
Mendoza   Rehab. and maintenance of provincial hospitals       0.8          0.6         n.a.                               21       n.a.         n.a.            n.a.
Catamarca Rehab. and maintenance of provincial                 8.3          4.6      18,000       3,000                    34       666      254,427           1,933
hospitals (*)
San Luis   Decentralization provincial health network          7.1          4.9       8,199       1,343                     4       616        17,279        301,524
LaPampa  Modernization provincial health network               3.5          2.1       4,810        1,040                    9       511        15,345        394,753
LaPampa  Rehab. and maitenance Gob. Centeno                    1.3          7.9         n.a.                                I       n.a.         n.a.            n.a.    .
Cordoba   Rehab. and maintenance of provincial hospitals      13.9          9.7      19,800                  3,000          3       329        10,094        147,948
Neuquen   Rehab. and maintenance of provincial                 3.1          2.2        1,285        292                     8        50          n.a.            n.a.
hospitals (*)
Total                                                        65.2          48.9    105,427        6,512      3,000        84      3,645      319,809      1,264,215
(*) The number of beds was estimated based on the average of 31.5 sq. meters per bed for the other provinces.
Source: SAFPA



48
Table 16
Number of Beneficiaries of Physical Investments in the Education Sector
Province             Total Cost  Financing    Rehab.   Expansion           New         Schools    Students
(US$ million)  (US$ Million)  (Sq. Meters)  (Sq. Meters)  (Sq. Meters)   Buildings
Santa Fe                      8.9         6.3       67,502        2,499        2,725          40       33,000
Mendoza                      14.8         8.3                         9           18          39         8,575
Catamarca                     2.3         1.5       17,054                                    62        10,700
Stgo. del Estero              6.5         4.6       47,594                                    48        17,233
Cordoba(**)                  12.7         8.6       25,978                                    11         9,200
Neuquen(*)                    1.2         0.8                     3,176                        14        5,516
Other Subprojects           11.52
Total                      57.92         30.1     158,128        5,684        2,743          214       84,224
(*) Number of students based on an average of 394 students per building in remaining provinces.
(**) It includes 11 schools and 7 hospitals.
Source: SAFPA.



49
Table 17.a
Coverage of Cadastre Subprojects
Parcels                            Avg. Cost
Province              All       Cadastre  Coverage   Sq. Meters   Per Parcel
Catamarca               371429    130,000       35%      1,343,503       33.4
Chaco (rural)            42317    42,317       100%         7,843       22.68
Cordoba                1866593  1,679,934       90%    43,545,936       16.67
Formosa                  131950   131,950      100%      1,357,481      37.17
Misiones                734843   257,195        35%     2,953,050       36.76
SanJuan                 211857    148,300       70%    12,214,116        33.7
Santa Fe                1367525  1,271,798      93%    22,733,120       27.11
Tierra del Fuego         23607    23,607       100%      1,477,576         44
Total                  4750121  3,685,101      78%    85,632,625    31.43625
Source: SAFPA.                                                                                                        4



50
Table 17.b
Fiscal Impact of Completed Cadastre Subprojects
(US$ Million)
Real Estate Tax
Total Cost          Project Life         Assessment (USS Million)          Actual Revenues (US$ Million)
Province            (US$ Million)      Start    End            1994        1997 % Change            1994       1997 % Change
Catamarca                      1.5      6/6/93  12/1/97          3.5      10.07    187.70%           2.93       3.51     19.80%
Chaco                          1.4      1/2/94   6/1/98         5.17       9.98     93.00%           2.09       4.23    102.40%
Cordoba                      26.05      8/1/93   6/1/98       322.45     448.23     39.00%        247.19      251.37      1.70%
Formosa                       4.29     1/17/94   6/1/98          7.2      13.74     90.80%           0.94       0.64    -31.90%
Misiones                      3.77      2/1/93  12/1/97        16.61      20.19     21.60%          11.79       12.5      6.00%
San Juan                      5.36     9/22/93  12/1/97        21.76       27.8    27.80%           7.12        5.84    -18.00%
Santa Fe                     30.55      7/1/93   6/1/98        201.8     229.61     13.80%         171.79     188.43      9.70%
TierradelFuego                1.43     10/1/93  12/1/97          6.7       17.16    156.10%          0.24       0.14    -41.70%
Total Eight                 74.35 (*)                        585.19      776.78    32.70%         444.09     466.66      5.10%
Avg. Eight                   9.29                              73.15       97.1   32.70%           55.51      58.33      5.10%
Avg. Other Provinces                                                                               75.02      86.45    15.20%
(*) The cost of all cadastre subprojects financed under PDP-I amounts to US$98.58 million, including those that have ot been completed.
Source: SAFPA, Ministry of Interior.



51
Table 18
Strategic Projects by Province
Tax              Financial           Property
Province                      Cadastre       Administration    Administration            Registry
Corrientes                       Yes                Yes                 Yes                 Yes
La Rioja                         Yes                Yes                 Yes                 Yes
Misiones                         Yes                Yes                Yes (2)              Yes
Buenos Aires                     Yes                Yes                 Yes
Catamarca                        Yes                Yes                Yes (1)
Chaco                            Yes                Yes                Yes (1)
Chubut                           Yes                Yes                Yes (1)
Entre Rios                       Yes                Yes               Yes (1) (2)
Rio Negro                        Yes                Yes                 Yes
Salta                                               Yes                Yes (2)              Yes
San Juan                         Yes                Yes                 Yes
Santa Fe                         Yes                Yes                 Yes
Stgo. del Estero                 Yes                Yes                                     Yes
Tierra del Fuego                 Yes                Yes                 Yes
Tucuman                          Yes                Yes                 Yes
Cordoba                          Yes                Yes
Formosa                          Yes                Yes
Jujuy                            Yes                Yes
Mendoza                          Yes                Yes
Neuquen                           Yes               Yes
San Luis                         Yes                Yes
La Pampa                                            Yes
G.C.B.A. (3)                                        Yes
Santa Cruz
Number of Subprojects             20                23                   14                  5
Note: All these subprojects are being financed under PDP-1 and II, unless it is indicated differently.
(1) Financed by the Secretaria de Hacienda de la Nacion.
(2) Financed with provincial resources.
(3) G.C.B.A. stands for the Government of City of Buenos Aires.
Source: Ministry of Interior, SAFPA, as of March 15, 1999.



52
Table 19
Change in Ingresos Brutos Among Provinces
1994-97
g?,reso5 Brutos (US$ '000)
i   '3rovilerce                1994          1997     1994-97 % Change 1994-97
acamarca                    16,914.27     28,922.00    12,007.73           70.99%
,hla^o                     54,934.83    80,050.00    25,1 15.17          45.72%
8  an v: laan          29,166.59     41,200.00    12,03 .4 i          41.26%
.N-uquen                    78,753.01    103,785.00    25,031.99           31.79%
S'go. dle' Estero           36,082.89    44,300.00     8,217.11            22.77%
Buenos Aires             1,788,784.51   2,130,500.00   341,715.49          19.10%
Szata                       78,636.69     93,200.00    14,/5-63.31         18.52%
,Sana Cruz                  41,691.03    49,243.57     7,552.54            18.12%
a Rioja                    14,822.52    17,408.17     2,585.65            17.44%
,_ lj Iiy                 -31,341.99     34,900.00    3,558.01            11.35%
Entre R-os                 128,928.31    142,862.00    13,933.69           10.81%
ntcut                     38,834.86     42,940.00     4,105.14            10.57%
a Pampa                   38,792.00     42,340.00     3,548.00             9.15%
,v>lisiones                57,277.79     61,700.00     4,422.21             7.72%
'Rio- Negro                 67,526.89     71,530.00     4,003.11            5.93%
SS  E SA. (i)            1,425,748.37   1,509,900.00    84,151.63           5.90%
!Correntes                  47,845.03     50,500.00    2,654.97             5.55%
, TUmura                    86,389.87     89,462.00    3,072.13             3.56%
i8anta Fe                 Q50,758.90    492,000.00    -8,758.90            -1.75%
Cordoba                    503,118.20    459,800.00   -43,318.20           -8.61%
Tierra del Fuego            41,424.46     36,960.00    -4,464.46          -10.78%
>'ormosa                   20,419.71      18,200.00    -2,219.71          -10.87%
5derldoza              233,650.13    201,000.00   -32,650.13           -13.97%
Lois                    46,740.43     35,394.32   -11,346.11          -24.27%
I i edxEa n9.86%
iteatn                                                                     8.68%
The median has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
G.C.B.A. stands for Government of the City of Buenos Aires.
:S -ce. SAFPA, Ministry of Interior (based on data from the national and provincial Ministries of
-Conomy3.



53
Table 20
Change in Own-Source Revenues Among Provinces
1994-97
Own-Source Revenues (US$ '000)
Province                       1994          1997      1994-97 % Change 1994-97
Catamarca                 26,312.44     39,871.00     13,558.56          51.53%
Santiago del Estero       62,787.64     84,110.00     21,322.36          33.96%
Chaco                     81,400.64     108,503.00    27,102.36          33.30%
La Rioja                  22,668.77     29,642.00      6,973.23          30.76%
Buenos Aires            3,432,923.86   4,327,876.00    894,952.14        26.07%
Salta                     103,311.53    125,300.00    21,988.47          21.28%
San Juan                  69,015.66     83,430.00     14,414.34          20.89%
Neuquen                   113,599.59    136,095.00    22,495.41          19.80%
Jujuy                     52,545.79     61,859.00      9,313.21          17.72%
LaPampa                   82,839.00     94,861.00     12,022.00          14.51%
SantaCruz                 55,112.11     61,467.66      6,355.55          11.53%
Entre Rios               267,569.58    292,846.27     25,276.69           9.45%
G.C.B.A. (1)            2,315,638.28   2,524,750.00    209,111.72         9.03%
Chubut                    52,142.69     55,562.00      3,419.31           6.56%
Misiones                   82,181.08     87,546.00     5,364.92           6.53%
Tucuman                   156,672.73    159,815.00     3,142.27           2.01%
Corrientes                71,975.49     71,700.00       -275.49          -0.38%
Santa Fe                 977,052.90    967,800.00     -9,252.90          -0.95%
Rio Negro                 126,603.26    123,539.00    -3,064.26          -2.42%
Cordoba                  881,566.62    856,166.00    -25,400.62          -2.88%
Mendoza                  415,656.31    392,200.00    -23,456.31          -5.64%
San Luis                  79,749.24     73,637.62     -6,111.62          -7.66%
Formosa                   27,275.96     24,557.00     -2,718.96          -9.97%
Tierra del Fuego          54,497.24     43,581.00    -10,916.24         -20.03%
Median                                                                    9.24%
Mean                                                                     12.65%
(*)    The median has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(')    G.C.B.A. stands for Government of the City of Buenos Aires.
Source: SAFPA, Ministry of Interior (based on data from the national and provincial Ministries of
Economy).



54
Table 21
Change in Personnel Expenditures Among Provinces
1995-97
Personnel Expenditures (US$ Million)
Province                     1995          1997       1997-95  % Change 1995-97
San Juan                   425.65         347.30        -78.35            -18.41%
La Rioja                   333.00         282.10        -50.90            -15.29%
Rio Negro                  436.87         377.20        -59.67            -13.66%
Tierra del Fuego           204.18         178.20        -25.98            -12.72%
Neuquen                    474.24         430.10        -44.14             -9.31%
Salta                      504.95         458.40        -46.55             -9.22%
San Luis                   215.75         197.00        -18.75             -8.69%
Entre Rios                 597.53         562.80        -34.73             -5.81%
Jujuy                      341.54         327.00        -14.54             -4.26%
Tucuman                    514.15         499.60        -14.55             -2.83%
Santa Cruz                 280.58         273.40         -7.18             -2.56%
Stgo. del Estero           383.26         374.90         -8.36             -2.18%
Cordoba                   1,202.72      1,180.20        -22.52             -1.87%
Mendoza                    653.91         645.90         -8.01             -1.22%
Chubut                     291.07         290.40         -0.67             -0.23%
Catamarca                  279.66         283.50          3.84              1.37%
Chaco                      508.58         523.20         14.62              2.87%
Santa Fe                  1,172.74      1,213.30        40.56               3.46%
Formnosa                   342.94         355.50         12.56              3.66%
La Pampa                   206.70         218.50         11.80              5.71%
Corrientes                 395.97         422.10         26.13              6.60%
G.C.B.A. (1)              1,580.53      1,708.90        128.37              8.12%
Misiones                   361.64         405.30         43.66             12.07%
Buenos Aires              3,497.98      3,988.20       490.22              14.01%
Median                                                                     -2.03%
Mean                                                                       2.22%
(*)    The median has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
G.C.B.A. stands for Government of the City of Buenos Aires.
Source: SAFPA, Ministry of Interior (based on data from the national and provincial Ministries of
Economy).



55
Table 22
Change in Current Account Surplus Among Provinces
1994-97
Current Account Surplus (US$ Million)"
Province              1994        1997         1994-97     % Change 1994-97
Neuquen               -11.2       90.5           101.7               909.27%
Entre Rios           -40.7        86.6           127.3               312.81%
San Luis              46.2       161.0           114.7               248.03%
Cordoba              -193.3      222.6           415.8               215.16%
Stgo. Del Estero     -86.6        91.7           178.3               205.86%
Salta                 -34.1        6.9            40.9               120.13%
Tucuman              -38.8          1.6           40.4               104.09%
San Juan             -225.8        -9.9          215.8                95.60%
La Pampa               9.3         17.5            8.3                89.24%
Corrientes           -63.0       -10.6            52.3                83.11%
Chaco                 -33.4      -10.3            23.1                69.23%
Chubut                -82.2      -27.7            54.5                66.26%
Catamarca           -111.1        -37.5           73.6                66.25%
Jujuy                 -83.5      -45.1            38.4                45.95%
Rio Negro           -108.7       -71.4            37.3                34.29%
Santa Fe             105.5       140.3            34.8                32.95%
La Rioja             -157.2     -144.9            12.3                 7.84%
Formosa               -65.1       -66.2           -1.1                -1.66%
T. del Fuego          -69.9      -80.4           -10.4               -14.92%
Misiones             -48.2       -71.2           -23.1               -47.87%
G.C.B.A. (')         247.8        106.1         -141.7               -57.18%
Bs. As.              202.6         15.5         -187.1               -92.36%
Mendoza               143.5      -47.4          -190.9              -133.07%
Santa Cruz             -5.8      -16.2           -10.4              -178.00%
Median                                                                66.26%
Mean                                                                 142.83%
Current Revenues (excluding Transfers) minus Current Expenditures (including Interest).
(*)    The median has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(1)    G.C.B.A. stands for Government of the City of Buenos Aires.
Source: Ministry of Economy and Public Works.



56
Table 23
Change in Primary Surplus Among Provinces
1994-97
Primary Surplus (US$ Million)"'
Province                          1994           1997        1994-97   % Change 1994-97
Santa Fe                        -13.85          44.04          57.89              417.97%
La Rioja                        -23.27          64.60          87.88              377.57%
San Luis                        -40.58          99.71         140.29              345.74%
Sgo.del Estero                  -72.53         101.13         173.66              239.42%
Tucuman                          -86.23         33.87         120.10              139.28%
Cordoba                        -320.13          98.44         418.57              130.75/
Neuquen                         -109.01         26.25         135.26              124.08%/
LaPampa                          -44.01          8.72          52.73              119.82%
Entre Rios                       -54.27          -2.52         51.75               95.350/0
San Juan                       -247.41         -14.11         233.30               94.30%
Santa Cruz                       -50.73         -4.14          46.60               91.85%
Rio Negro                       -168.75        -37.08         131.67               78.03%
Jujuy                           -133.37        -34.24          99.13               74.33%
Catamarca                        -86.21        -29.02          57.19               66.34%
Mendoza                           10.15         16.84           6.68               65.85%
Salta                            -53.61        -22.11          31.49               58.75/(
Chubut                         -185.79         -91.14          94.65               50.94%
Corrientes                       -74.45        -37.36          37.09               49.82%
Misiones                         -89.91        -77.54          12.37               13.76%
Chaco                            -53.06        -59.82          -6.76              -12.74%
T. del Fuego                     -32.64        -38.24          -5.60              -17.16%
Formosa                         -116.60       -143.42         -26.82              -23.00%
G.C.B.A. (1)                    133.84          29.82        -104.02              -77.72%
Bs.As.                         -250.46        -536.38        -285.91             -114.15%
Median                                                                             76.18%
Mean                                                                               72.09%
Current Revenues (including Transfers) minus Current Revenues (excl. Interest) minus Capital
Expenditures.
(*)     The median has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(')     G.C.B.A. stands for Government of the City of Buenos Aires.
Source: Ministry of Economy and Public Works.



57
Figure 2
Ranking of Consequences Associated with Approving or Not Approving the PDP-I
Worst
Consequence
Macroeconomic Stability
Outcome 1  (Pi)              Unique window of
opportunity is lost.
Do Nothing
Second-Best
Consequence
Macroeconomic Chaos
Outcome 2  (1 - P)       N  Opportunity costs of
Bank's resources.
Best
Consequence
Macroeconomic Stability
Outcome 3  (PI)              Bank capitalizes on
unique window of
Approve PDP-1   (g                                   opportunity.
Third-Best
Macroeconomic Chaos          Consequence
Outcome 4  (1 - PI)          Some Bank resources
are wasted.
Key:
D  Decision Node               Q    Uncertainty Node          <     Terminal Node



58
INFORME FINAL DE EVALUACION
PROGRAMA PROVINCIAS I (PSF Y DEPA)
1. Descripci6n del Programa: El Programa de Saneamiento Financiero y Desarrollo Econ6mico de las
Provincias Argentinas (PSF y DEPA), tambi6n conocido como Programa Provincias I, estaba orientado a
otorgar financiamiento para implementar proyectos de desarrollo institucional y de infraestructura que
ayudaran a concretar las transfornaciones fiscales de las Provincias. Los costos totales del Programa se
proyectaron que ascenderian al equivalente de US$ 575 millones, de los cuales US$ 200 millones fueron
aportados por el Prestamo BIRF N 3280-AR del Banco Mundial, cofinanciados por el Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) con un prestamo de igual monto (Prestamo BID N 619/OC-AR) y
recursos de contrapartida local, que se proyectaron en US$ 175 millones, a ser aportados por las Provincias
participantes en el Programa.
2. El objetivo global del Programa Provincias I era proveer apoyo financiero e incentivos a las Provincias
que hubieren adoptado programas de ajuste estructural destinados a incrementar sus ingresos propios y
controlar sus gastos, de forma consistente con el programa nacional de ajuste fiscal.
3. El Programa tenia tres objetivos especificos, los que se definieron como:
4. Primer objetivo especifico: Implementar reformas apropiadas en la administraci6n financiera que
permitan a los gobiemos provinciales transformarse de generadores de excesivos deficits fiscales a
generadores de superavits en cuenta corriente, que puedan financiar infraestructura puiblica y servicios
necesarios para promover el desarrollo econ6mico;
Resumen Ejecutivo
5. Segundo objetivo especifico: Fortalecer las capacidades de los Gobiernos Provinciales
para planificar, programar, financiar, ejecutar y monitorear programas de gasto, de
manera estos sean econ6micamente eficientes, financieramente sustentables,
institucionalmente administrables y ecol6gicamente razonables; y
6. Tercer objetivo especifico: Proveer financiamiento para desarrollo institucional e
inversiones fisicas que sean consistentes con el programa de ajuste nacional y que
promuevan el desarrollo econ6mico.
7. Para conseguir sus objetivos, el Programa agrup6 sus recursos en tres componentes
principales de financiamiento: a) Desarrollo Institucional (inicialmente proyectado en
aproximadamente un 10% de los recursos totales del Programa), lo que incluy6 asistencia
tecnica, entrenamiento y equipamiento relacionados con los objetivos del Programa, tanto
a nivel de Gobierno Central como de Gobiernos Provinciales; b) Inversi6n Fisica
(inicialmente proyectado en aproximadamente un 81% de los recursos totales del
Programa), lo que incluia tanto obras de infraestructura como de servicios puiblicos,



59
considerandose proyectos de mantenci6n, rehabilitaci6n de obras existentes, completar
trabajos no terminados y nueva inversiones; y c) Administraci6n del Programa
(inicialmente proyectado en aproximadamente 9% de los recursos totales del Programa),
que estaban destinados a solventar la implementaci6n del Programa, tanto a nivel
nacional como provincial.
8. En principio, las 24 jurisdicciones subnacionales eran elegibles para participar en el
Programa. Las condiciones de elegibilidad de las Provincias para acceder a los recursos
disponibles para prestamos estaban relacionadas a sus desempenXos fiscales. Estas
condiciones incluian: i) Haber tenido un superavit en la cuenta corriente en la ejecuci6n
del ejercicio fiscal previo; ii) Poseer un plan aceptable para consolidar la deuda publica
en un plazo no superior a cinco anios; iii) Tener una raz6n de servicio de la deuda puiblica
provincial no superior al 15% del total de los ingresos corrientes provinciales; y iv) Que
la variaci6n neta de activos y pasivos de corto plazo no excediera del 20% de los ingresos
totales de las Provincias. Las Provincias que cumplian todas estas condiciones de
elegibilidad podian acceder al 100% de su cuota-basada en la Coparticipaci6n Federal-
,en tanto que aquellas que cumplian s6lo alguna de ellas podian acceder hasta el 50% de
su respectiva cuota. Asimismo, la Provincias que presentaban un superavit en su cuenta
corriente podian ser elegibles para el financiamiento de cualquier tipo de inversiones, esto
es, obras de mantenci6n, termino de obras o nuevas inversiones.
Evaluaci6n de los Obietivos del Proyrama y el Logro Alcanzado: El objetivo global
del Programa Provincias I se mantuvo sin modificaciones durante la implementaci6n del
Programa. Este objetivo era claro, realista e importante para la consecuci6n de los
objetivos macroecon6micos de mediano y largo plazo que buscaba el Gobierno Nacional.
Ademas, la mayoria de las Provincias requeria de una urgente mejoria en sus cuentas
fiscales y en la eficiencia de sus esfuerzos recaudadores y del gasto y la inversi6n. El
Programa cont6 con recursos financieros significativos para entregar un incentivo que
promoviera el ajuste fiscal buscado. Al final, el Provincias I fue capaz de movilizar sobre
US$530 millones equivalentes en proyectos puiblicos de diferentes tipos, por lo que se
puede concluir que este primer aspecto del objetivo global del Programa se cumpli6
satisfactoriamente. Ademas, fondos originales del Programa contribuyeron a financiar
proyectos durante dos emergencia causadas por inundaciones, proyectos que fueron
altamente rentables y que claramente tuvieron un impacto fiscal positivo, al evitar
perdidas mayores de patrimonio puiblico.
9. Las dificultades en la utilizaci6n de los recursos del Programa surgieron mas bien al
inicio de su ejecuci6n, principalmente por una sobreestimaci6n considerable en la
capacidad de absorci6n del financiamiento por parte de las Provincias en proyectos
aceptables bajo la reglamentaci6n del Programa. En efecto, tom6 mucho mas tiempo y
esfuerzo que el inicialmente contemplado para poner en marcha la mecanica del
Programa. Sin embargo, al final los recursos canalizados por el Banco Mundial y el BID
fueron utilizados casi en su totalidad.



60
Aunque el Programa fue ambicioso en su cobertura al tratar de abarcar a todas las
Provincias, es menester reconocer que el volumen de recursos disponibles al final no se
tradujo por si solo en un gran incentivo para promover el ajuste fiscal, particularmente en
el caso de las Provincias de mayor tamafno relativo. En todo caso, fue uno de los logros
del Programa que, salvo Santa Cruz, todas las Provincias y la Ciudad de Buenos Aires
participaran en el Programa, aunque con distintos grados de intensidad. Sin embargo,
hubo una gran dispersi6n en la intensidad de uso de los recursos, que va mas alla de lo
que podria explicar el tamafio de las economias de las distintas Provincias o sus
situaciones fiscales iniciales. En la practica, hubo una alta concentraci6n en la utilizaci6n
de los fondos. Es destacable tambien que varias de las Provincias de menor desarrollado
relativo, que hicieron menos uso de los recursos del Programa, tuvieron un menor grado
de avance en sus procesos de reformas. Existe asi hoy un grupo de Provincias mas
rezagadas cuyas necesidades de reformas fiscales debe tenerse en cuenta para programas
futuros.
Con respecto al punto mas de fondo del objetivo global del Programa, esto es, si los
recursos disponibles realmente se orientaron hacia e incentivaron programas de ajuste
fiscal en las Provincias mAs exitosas en esta materia, la respuesta necesariamente es algo
ambigua. Por un lado, el Programa efectivamente avanz6 la causa, volvi6 mas factible y
facilit6 el ajuste fiscal en varias de las Provincias, particularmente aquellas de menor
tamanio. Asimismo, varias de las Provincias que tuvieron mal desempefno fiscal o no
llevaron a cabo reformas estructurales, tuvieron poca preponderancia relativa en la
utilizaci6n de recursos del Programa. Pero tambien se dieron casos en que el uso relativo
de recursos del Programa no se justificaba en base al avance en materia fiscal. Por otra
parte, la evaluaci6n del cumplimiento del objetivo global del Programa resulta dificil de
hacer, por la existencia de otros programas con organismos. Todo ello hace dificil
establecer causalidades con precisi6n y si los recursos del Provincias I fueron
consistentemente a aquellas Provincias con politicas consecuentes con el programa
nacional de ajuste fiscal.
De cualquier forma, hubo avances fiscales estructurales de importancia a nivel de las 24
jurisdicciones durante la implementaci6n del Programa, observandose no s6lo un
aumento substancial en las recaudaciones de recursos fiscales corrientes de las
Provincias, sino que tambien se revirti6 el pronunciado deficit existente a fines de la
decada de los ochenta.
En resumen, se puede concluir que en balance el cumplimiento del objetivo global del
Programa Provincias I fue satisfactorio.
El primer objetivo especifico era sin duda ambicioso en cuanto a las metas fiscales que
persegufa, de hacer a las Provincias generadoras de superavits en cuenta corriente. Las
cifras tienden a confirmar una tendencia al mejoramiento en las cuentas fiscales de la
Provincias que mAs utilizaron el Programa, pero el punto es que el primer objetivo que se
comenta en verdad le impuso al Provincias I la responsabilidad de buscar como meta



61
especifica del mismo un ajuste estructural en la esfera fiscal. Sin embargo, el disenfo final
del Programa y los incentivos que contenia distaron de ser los adecuados y suficientes
para lograr dicho objetivo fiscal por si solo. En la practica, la relevancia de este objetivo
como componente especifico del Programa fue perdiendo fuerza con el tiempo.
Asimismo, resultaba poco practico y contradictorio forzar una suspensi6n del
financiamiento a proyectos que tenian un claro beneficio sobre el deficit fiscal, tales como
los proyectos de catastro y otros destinados a mejorar la recaudaci6n impositiva, si es que
no se cumplia con las metas fiscales trazadas por la Provincia.
En resumen, al evaluar hoy el cumplimiento del primer obietivo especifico del Programa,
se llega a la conclusi6n que en balance este fue solamente marginalmente satisfactorio.
Retrospectivamente hablando, al final dominaron los aspectos del Programa que
proveyeron asistencia tecnica y financiamiento para proyectos especificos. Provincias I
fue, sin duda, un facilitador e instrumento iutil de apoyo al proceso de ajuste fiscal en
muchas de las Provincias, pero claramente no fue el principal motor que lo promovi6. En
este respecto, los otros dos objetivos especificos del Programa fueron muy relevantes para
ayudar a materializar los cambios estructurales observados en la gesti6n de las finanzas
provinciales durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del Programa.
El segundo objetivo especifico se convirti6 a la larga en el objetivo mas importante del
Programa. Sin embargo, como ya se expres6, el diagn6stico inicial subestim6 las
dificultades de ejecutar un Programa con objetivos de alcance tan amplio, lo que se
reflej6 en demoras en su implementaci6n. En particular, resalta que no se hubiese
previsto como parte integral del Programa un fuerte componente de capacitaci6n, que
hubiese permitido mejorar el capital humano de los encargados de ejecutar el Programa,
tanto a nivel central como provincial. Pero en definitiva, la persecuci6n de este segundo
objetivo especifico apoy6, permiti6 y financi6 un importante avance en la capacidad de la
gesti6n p(ublica de un amplio niumero de gobiemos provinciales. En este respecto, el
cumplimiento de este objetivo puede considerarse altamente satisfactorio. En muchos
gobiernos provinciales, aunque costoso en un principio, el Programa produjo un cambio
cultural importante, transfiriendo conceptos modernos en administraci6n de los ingresos y
la ejecuci6n del gasto puiblico.
El tercer objetivo especifico del Provincias I provey6 financiamiento para desarrollo
institucional e inversiones fisicas. En particular, la demanda por proyectos de desarrollo
institucional por parte de las Provincias, incluyendo asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n,
excedi6 por mucho el diagn6stico inicial del Programa, modificando de alguna forma el
balance de los componentes y el caracter del Programa. Desde la perspectiva de los
recursos invertidos, casi el 40% del total fue en proyectos de desarrollo institucional, muy
por sobre el 11% proyectado originalmente. En definitiva, las Provincias participes del
Programa implementaron 374 proyectos, de los cuales 319 fueron proyectos de desarrollo
institucional y 55 de infraestructura. Aparentemente, la coexistencia de otros recursos,
tales como las Asignaciones del Tesoro Nacional (ATN), permiti6 que aquellas



62
Provincias menos proclives a desarrollar procesos de reforma de sus respectivos sectores
pAblicos fueran menos activas en la implementaci6n del Programa. Se conform6 asf un
grupo de Provincias mas rezagadas, cuyas necesidades de reforma y financiamiento debe
tenerse en cuenta en programas faturos. Todo ello desvirtu6 de alguna forma la equidad
que inicialmente se pretendia al asignar los recursos de este en base los porcentajes de la
Coparticipaci6n Federal, ya que el 75% de los fondos totales se comprometieron a 8
Provincias y el 50% a s6lo 4 de ellas.
En resumen, sopesando todos los argumentos se puede concluir que el cumplimiento del
tercer obietivo especifico puede calificarse de satisfactorio.
Asimismo, el Programa tambien tuvo una serie de extemalidades, que si bien no se
proyectaron al disefnarlo, son resultados importantes y sostenibles del Provincia I. En
efecto, si bien el Programa sufri6 los costos de aprendizaje, tambien sirvi6 de puente para
un mejor desempen'o de los programas para los gobiemos provinciales que la Republica
suscribi6 con posterioridad. Esto ha permitido un mejor desempefio del Programa
Provincias II, financiado con el Prestamo BIRF N 3877-AR, los programas de
emergencias por las inundaciones (PREI y El Nifto II), del Programa de Reforma
Provincial (PREP), a la vez que apoyo la preparaci6n de las bases para la continuidad de
las reformas a nivel municipal.
Principales Factores cque Afectaron a la Eiecuci6n del Programa: Entre los factores
ex6genos al Programa Provincias I que afectaron su ejecuci6n, se pueden mencionar que:
a) La deteriorada condici6n de partida de las Provincias a inicios del Programa fue
subestimada, lo que signific6 demoras importantes en la implementacion del Programa;
b) Si bien la situaci6n econ6mica de la Naci6n y las Provincias al inicio del Programa era
tal que alentaba a la participaci6n en este, tras la implementaci6n de la Ley de
Convertibilidad y la compensaci6n de las cuentas provinciales, se produjo una mayor
disponibilidad de recursos que relaj6 el interes por participar en el Programa; c) Las
provincias tenian al inicio del Programa un bajo convencimiento politico en el proceso de
reformas del sector publico, mientras que el Provincias I por si solo no contaba con
incentivos suficientes para estimular la implementaci6n de reformas; y d) Los cambios de
autoridades a nivel de la UEC y en varias UEPs generaron algunos retrasos en la
ejecuci6n del Programa.
Entre los factores end6genos al Provincias I que afectaron su ejecuci6n, se pueden
mencionar: a) Caracteristicas de disefio del Programa, tales como el monto de los
recursos disponibles y que resultaron poco atractivos para estimular reformas en las
Provincias grandes; la inclusi6n de todas las Provincias bajo un solo esquema
organizativo; y el caracter multisectorial del Programa y la mayor preponderancia de
proyectos de desarrollo institucional, que le imprimieron mayor complejidad y
contribuyeron a las demoras en su ejecuci6n; b) El disefno del Programa tuvo deficiencias
de diagn6stico al subestimar los costos transaccionales o de aprendizaje en que se iba a
incurrir para iniciar su ejecuci6n; c) Tambien se desestim6 el riesgo que podia significar



63
para la implementaci6n del Programa la falta de contrapartida local por parte de las
Provincias; y d) Las soluciones juridicas propuestas a nivel de los Contratos de
Subprestamo fueron insuficientes para generalizar la adopcion a nivel provincial de los
sistemas de contrataci6n v licitacion requeridos para los programas apoyados por los
organismos multilaterales de credito.
En lo que se refiere al Banco Mundial, dos factores pudieron haber influido en la
ejecuci6n del Programa: a) Algunas inconsistencias en las politicas del Banco, al permitir
la coexistencia de programas que competian entre si por los proyectos de las Provincias,
lo que reducia el interes por desembolsar los recursos del Programa; y b) En menor
medida, cambios de Task Managers del Banco Mundial durante la ejecuci6n del
Programa, lo que contribuy6 en algo a los atrasos en la ejecuci6n de este.
En lo que respecta a la UEC, y en parte tambien al Banco, un factor que afect6 la
ejecuci6n del Programa fue la lentitud inicial en las tramitaciones de las contrataciones y
aprobaci6n de pliegos de licitaci6n de obras. Si bien la importancia de este factor se fue
reduciendo con el transcurrir del Programa y ya aparece como solucionado en general,
inicialmente caus6 demoras en la ejecuci6n del Provincias I.
Finalmente, entre los factores atribuibles a las UEPs que afectaron la ejecuci6n del
Programa, se puede mencionar que: a) Si bien un grupo importante de Provincias fueron
declaradas elegibles al inicio del Programa, la conformaci6n efectiva de las UEPs fue
lenta; b) La separaci6n entre las UEPs v los organismos ejecutores de los proyectos, asi
como la poca preparaci6n inicial de los funcionarios de las UEPs en el gerenciamiento de
estos, tambien fueron factores de demora; y c) La incorporaci6n de las funciones de las
UEPs en la gesti6n habitual de los gobiemos provinciales fue un factor muy positivo y
determinante en la eficiencia de estas en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos bajo el Programa.
Sostenibilidad del Programa: Los resultados conseguidos en relaci6n al tema fiscal son
sostenibles en el tiempo en lo que se refiere al cambio cultural, los cambios tecnol6gicos
y los mejorados y agiles sistemas de informaci6n que se implementaron como resultado
del Programa. En cuanto a los nuevos equilibrios conseguidos en las cuentas fiscales
mismas, estos obviamente estan expuestos a la posibilidad de ser revertidos, dependiendo
de la voluntad politica para mantener la ganada disciplina fiscal o de las condiciones
generales del entomo macroecon6mico que enfrenten a futuro los gobiernos provinciales.
Desde el punto de vista del objetivo de caracter institucional, esto es, fortalecer las
capacidades de las Provincias para planificar, programar, financiar, ejecutar y controlar el
uso de recursos puiblicos de manera econ6mica y financieramente eficiente, se puede
argumentar que la permanencia en el tiempo del resultado alcanzado por este obj etivo es
sostenible. La transferencia cultural ocurrida a nivel de las Provincias es, en cierta
medida, irreversible. La conciencia adquirida respecto de la importancia de las cuentas
puiblicas en las Provincias es un avance importante.



64
En relaci6n al objetivo de financiamiento de proyectos de las Provincias, a fin de
promover el desarrollo institucional y la inversi6n fisica que promuevan el desarrollo
econ6mico, tambien se puede argumentar que la permanencia en el tiempo del resultado
alcanzado por este objetivo es sostenible. El Programa Provincias I ensen6 una forma
nueva de evaluar y establecer prioridades entre proyectos de inversi6n a ser financiados
con los escasos recursos puiblicos disponibles.
Evaluaci6n de la UEC en la Eiecuci6n del Programa: En terminos generales, la
evaluaci6n de la UEC en la ejecuci6n del Programa Provincias I, resulta satisfactoria.
Esta evaluaci6n esta basada en la opini6n recibida de las UEPs. En definitiva, la prueba
de un resultado satisfactorio en la ejecuci6n del Programa por parte de la UEC estara en
que mas UEPs sean capaces de llevar a cabo programas de ajuste y de inversi6n por
iniciativa y con capacidades propias. Eventualmente el apoyo actual de los organismos
multilaterales de credito desaparecera y los gobiemos provinciales-apoyados por las
UEPs-deberan estar preparados para acceder directa y voluntariamente a los mercados
de capitales intemos y extemos. Como resultado del Programa Provincias I, y en parte
por Provincias II, un conjunto importante de UEPs esta en condiciones de tener un mayor
grado de autonomia. No obstante, existe un grupo importante de Provincias mas
rezagadas en sus procesos de reforma del sector publico.
La coordinaci6n de politicas de reforma entre las Provincias, asi como la permanente
interacci6n con el Gobiemo Central es un elemento de vital importancia en la ejecuci6n
de programas de reformas con gobiemos subnacionales. En este sentido, el Foro de
Ministros de Economiajug6 un papel trascendental en la ejecuci6n del Programa, si bien
no fue concebido como parte del disefio del mismo. No obstante, su utilizaci6n como
herramienta de promoci6n y coordinaci6n del Programa pas6 por altos y bajos, en forma
inversamente proporcional al grado de centralizaci6n de las decisiones en la UEC. Sin
embargo, El Foro de Ministros de Economia aparece como una instancia politico-t6cnica
mnica en el esquema federalista argentino, el cual para una mayor eficacia debe saber
adaptarse constantemente a la nueva problematica que vaya surgiendo.
Evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial en la Eiecuci6n del Programa: En terminos generales,
la evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial en la ejecuci6n del Programa Provincias I, resulta
satisfactoria. Esta calificaci6n esta basada en la opini6n de las UEPs y de la UEC. Sin
embargo, cierta desconfianza inicial del Banco en el exito en la ejecuci6n de un programa
de ajuste fiscal a nivel subnacional, llev6 a elaborar un disen'io que mezcl6 metas fiscales
con un clasico financiamiento de proyectos y asistencia tecnica, lo que a larga limit6 el
alcance del Programa como herramienta de ajuste fiscal puro. Sin embargo, el enfasis en
la asistencia tecnica para el desarrollo institucional al final facilit6 la disposici6n de las
Provincias a las reformas, lo que tambien fue capitalizado por programas posteriores.
En la ejecuci6n del Programa, al Banco le correspondi6 un rol que no le fue asignado
necesariamente por disefio del Programa, pero que fue una resultante vital en la ejecuci6n
de este. En efecto, la calidad de juez imparcial y el uso de la imagen del Banco frente a
las autoridades provinciales fue vital para la ejecuci6n del Provincias I. Asimismo,



65
permiti6 muchas veces a las autoridades nacionales hacer frente a problemas de
implementaci6n en las Provincias e imponer la necesaria disciplina. En general, el Banco
es fuente confiable de argumentos para hacer valer criterios y condiciones de elegibilidad
para acceder a los recursos de programas como el Provincias I. Fue muy importante que
en este sentido que el Banco apareciera muchas veces apoyando firmemente el
compromiso de reforma del Gobiemo Central a traves de la UEC, en particular frente a
Provincias reticentes a efectuar transformaciones.
Apreciaci6n Global de los Resultados del Programa: Haciendo un balance global del
Programa Provincias I, recogiendo el sentir de las UEPs y de la UEC, se puede manifestar
que su resultado fue satisfactorio, pues si bien hubo retrasos iniciales, permiti6 crear las
bases para el posterior desarrollo de un conjunto de programas de reforma y saneamiento
financiero de los gobiemos provinciales con los organismos multilaterales. El Provincias
I fue el primer acercamiento de parte del Banco Mundial a la problematica de la reforma
de gobiemos subnacionales. Otro aspecto satisfactorio del Programa, que no fue
explicitamente uno de sus objetivos iniciales, tiene relaci6n con la sinergia que este tuvo
con programas que se implementaron con posterioridad, como el PREP y el Provincias II.
Principales Lecciones Derivadas de la Eiecucion del Programa: Algunas de las
conclusiones y lecciones que se pueden extraer de la ejecuci6n del Programa Provincias I
y que pueden ser uitiles para nuevas operaciones con organismos multilaterales, son:
Programas de asistencia tecnica y financiamiento de proyectos deben ser cautelosos en la
introducci6n simultanea de objetivos de ajuste de cuentas fiscales.
Programas nuevos y sin precedentes deben incorporar como objetivo especifico el
fortalecimiento de las unidades ejecutoras.
En la medida que las Provincias van aprendiendo y logrando sus objetivos se requiere
darles un mayor grado de autonomia.
Es necesario una mayor coordinaci6n a nivel de los Task Managers de los distintos
programas financiados con recursos de los organismos multilaterales de credito.
El trabajo con gobiernos subnacionales requiere implementar alguna forma de
coordinaci6n y participaci6n al nivel politico-tecnico.
Para una ejecuci6n mas eficaz de programas de ajuste es necesario que el Gobiemo
Central mantenga la disciplina fiscal a nivel subnacional.
La administraci6n eficiente de la deuda publica y el manejo apropiado de los niveles de
endeudamiento deben estar presente en futuros programas de ajuste a nivel subnacional.
Resulta ventajoso tener UEPs insertas dentro de la estructura y la gesti6n normal de los
gobiernos subnacionales.



66
PROGRAMAS de DESARROLLO PRONVINCIAL
Prestamos BIRF N 3877-AR (y BIRF N 3280-AR, ver Anexo)
Misi6n de Supervisi6n
(Noviembre 30 - Diciembre 11, 1998)
AYUDA MEMORIA
Una misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por Miguel Mercado Diaz (Task Manager), Raul Benitez
(Rentas y Administraci6n Financiera), Jorge Daniel Taillant (Urbanismo), Mary Lou Veizaga
(Contrataciones). Harold Schuch (GIS), Rafael Schutz (Inspector de Obras), Javier Said (Reforma
Judicial). visit6 Argentina con el prop6sito de supervisar los Programas de Desarrollo Provincial I y II
(PDP I y II). La rnisi6n se entrevisto con representantes de la Jefatura de Gabinete: con el Dr. Rodolfo
Vacchiano. Secretario de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias y Coordinador General de la Unidad
Ejecutora Central (t;EC) y con otros miembros de la UEC, y con funcionarios gubemamentales de todas
las provincias de proarama. reunidos en Buenos Aires, aderrnis de realizar visitas in situ a las provincias
de Salta, Entre Rios, Santa Fe, Santiago del Estero, Rio Negro. Corrientes. C6rdoba, Misiones, y
Formosa.
Introducci6n
El prop6sito de esta Misi6n fue de llevar a cabo una evaluacion de Mitad de Termnino
del PDP II. Se organizaron consultas directas con los miltiples niveles operativos del
programa, registrando las sugerencias de los actores participantes en implementaci6n,
tanto de la Unidad Ejecutora Central (TiEC), como de las Unidades Ejecutoras
Provinciales (ITEPs). La Misi6n puso especial enfasis en evaluar subprovectos
realizados en los sectores Fiscal (catastro, rentas y administracion financiera), Obras
Fisicas (Educaci6n, Salud), y como nueva linea directiva del PDP II, Poder Judicial.
La Misi6n constat6 importantes avances y recupero de atrasos en lo que respecta a la
ejecuci6n. implementaci6n y desembolsos desde la ultima Misi6n'. Se observo6 una
importante recuperaci6n en el ritmo de desembolsos, mejoras en la comunicacion entre
actores nacionales y provinciales del prograrna, importantes impactos en la recaudaci6n
gracias a subproyectos de catastro y rentas, y con la reciente adhesion de Santa Cruz al
programa. se logr6 incluir todas las provincias del pais. Esto Ileva al PDP II a cumplir
con la mavoria de las expectativas enumeradas en el Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Ademas Z  estos logros sobre el avance (logros cuantitativos), tambi6n se observa una
mejora en el impacto del programa (logros cualitativos). Estos ultimos se manifiestan en
una notable v naciente "nueva cultura nCiblica". oue desciendfT  P tnrcrc lnc ^-x  -A41
L t    ' Es importante recalcar que el PDP II se ha caracterizado por retrasos sistematicos; demorando mas de
u   o de lo previsto para ser declarado operativo y mis de tres afios para alcanzar efectividad en todas
provincias. Hasta a fec.ha de la ultima Misi6n, el ritmo de desemboisos estaba muy por debajo de lo
ogramado eni el Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Tambien el programa tuvo sistemiticas e importantes
demoras de 'a trarnitaci6n entre el Banco, la UEC y las lUEPs. Estos percances habian resultado en una
categorizaci6n del PDP II ante las autoridades del Banco, de alta preocupaci6n y en algunos componentes
incuss.ffiJ.ac "ns; 'Sa.tri '.



67
programa. Se observa una mejora en la preparaci6n de subproyectos y sus respectivos
pliegos, asi como una mejora en formulaci6n. evaluaci6n, contrataci6n, licitacion e
implementaci6n. Esta transformaci6n cualitativa, si bien esta aiin en sus primeras etapas,
esta logrando concientizar al sector publico sobre la validez e importancia de la reforna
estatal institucional a fin de lograr un crecimiento econ6mico sostenible e eficaz.
Debe notarse que el programa ha sido afectado por factores ex6genos, como son las
crisis financieras intemacionales que repercuten en las economias locales, asi como
tarnbien cambios politicos en la gobernaci6n de las provincias que pueden alterar el
compromiso de la provincia a la reformna, y situaciones macro-econ6micas del pais que
tambien iienen un importante impacto al nivel local. Al margen de estos factores, el
programa ha logrado sobreponerse a estas adversidades.
Considerando los logros observados, y la recuperaci6n de indicadores, la Misi6n
recomienda la graduaci6n general de la mayoria de los componentes del PDP II a
"satisfactorio", con la salvedad de que esta performance necesita solidificarse y
rnejorarse. La Misi6n observ6 algunas dificultades de gesti6n y problematicas
operativas dentro del PDP II que en su mayoria deben ser subsanados a nivel UEC. Este
documento resume los avances del programa hasta la fecha y apunta a esclarecer
problemkticas del programa que se consideran corregibles y que deben ser afrontados a
fin de solidificar el avance y disminuir su estado de riesgo.
Antecedentes
El PDP I y el PDP II acompafian a la estrategia del Gobierno Argentino de la ultima
decada de descentralizar y desconcentrar la estructura estatal apuntando a fortalecer el
nivel subnacional. El PDP y asi como los programas el Desarrollo Municipal I y II, y el
Provecto de Reforma Provincial, apuntan no solo a financiar inversiones en obras fisicas
como son hospitales, escuelas, y rutas; sino tambien a mejorar la capacidad de los
recursos humanos al nivel subnacional. Incluyen cursos de capacitacion de personal
puiblico en diversas areas de operaciones; reformas en sistemas fiscales y financieros;
catastros y rentas; planificaci6n estrategica; formulaci6n de subproyectos; y asistencia
en implementaci6n y monitoreo de los mismos. Estos componentes visualizan la
creaci6n de un sector p:blico subnacional mas aut6nomo, eficiente, sostenible, y
gerenciable, mejorando de esta manera la calidad del servicio publico, y asi la calidad de
vida del ciudadano.
Estos programas tuvieron un importante impacto al nivel local. La provincias se
encontraban en un estado de abandono, sin los recursos necesarios para abordar las
nuevas responsabilidades que traia la descentralizaci6n. Acudieron a.los programas del
darico corn mucno entusiasmo, invirtienclo en obras tisicas. y abordando por primera vez
\mportantes reformas estructurales cambiando asi de a poco la cara del gobiemo local,
intr   ndo conceptos como retorno sobre inversi6n, costo-beneficio, nzonitoreo e
dicadores en la obra publica. El impacto de esta primera fase se refleja tanto en la
creciente demarnda a participar en el programa, como en mejoras en disefio, contrataci6n
e implementaci6n. Los subproyectos en reforma catastral y rentas, empiezan a brindar
\'resultados significativos, incrementando ingresos locales de manera contundente.



68
ANEXO
Provincias I (PDP I)
Prestamo BIRF N 3280-AR
Estado de la Cartera
El PDP I llega casi al final de su ejecuci6n, con el 98,4% (o USS 197,4 de 200 millones)
J        --   -     ..    - ..- .  - . . -  . .. . O .   . .    .. ,  .   . :   .. .  ..
** of>o *wssuva .) - *Wss;X;S^uvo.  ' wOLva v - -  D        .Va   ) "  L.LUU.z    L.4A
monto de $72,5 millones y 41 subproyectos por un valor de S100,3 millones, auln en
ejecuci6n. El restante del monto  total del prestamo  se asigna a subproyectos
relacionados con las recientes inundaciones, por los que el Banco extendi6 una pr6rroga
de la fecha de cierre hasta el 31 de diciembre 1998, ya que estos subproyectos no se
podian iniciar antes por la situaci6n de emergencia que vivian las provincias afectadas.
Desembolsos
Los desembolsos en 1998, hasta fines de noviembre, fueron 529,5 millones, alcanzando
de esta manera el 95% del total o $190,3 millones. Quedarian por desembolsar $2,6
millones entre diciembre de 1998 y febrero del 1999, y otros 3 millones recientemente
identificados y aprobados por el Banco, para financiar subproyectos de emergencia por
inundaciones. Asi se completaria en los primeros meses de 1999 la totalidad de los
desembolsos programados para el prestamo 3280-AR. (ver Grafico 5).
Evolucion Desembolsos Acumulados PSF y DEPA - BIRF
250.00
200.00___------i 
* 50.00
10000 -- - ---------------_______
|  12Z31191  1Z'31/92  12,31/93  12Z'31!94  12.131ls5  12131.,956 19  11125198
Grafico 5
Subprovectos de Reforma
De los subproyectos aprobados en el PDP I encontramos que la mayor parte de ellos,
medido por monto financiado, fueron principalmente en inversiones fisicas (33%),
refornas catastrales (30%), subproyectos de emergencia por inundaciones (16%), y a
fortalecimiento institucional (13%); (ver Grafico 6).



69
PDP I por Tipo de Proyecto
INUNDACiONES   INVERSION
16%           33%
PROVIN y UEC
FORT INST. UEP
3%                     A3MiN FiNANCIERA
4%
CATASTRO
31%
Grafico 6
Seguin lo observado en las visitas in situ a las UEPs y con el personal de la UEC. los
subproyectos en reforrmas catastrales y rentas, tienen un importante impacto en las
condiciones financieras de sus provincias, sobre todo cuando estos subprovectos
apuntan a una reforma integrada de instituciones que por su naturaleza son
complementarias.
Se financiaron catastros en 18 provincias, resultando en incrementos significativos en la
facturaci6n de la recaudaci6n impositiva como resultado de la incorporaci6n de parcelas
y construcciones a la base de datos catastral. (Ver impactos en secci6n Catastro rese?ea
PDP II). A traves de la ejecuci6n de los subproyectos, las provincias han obtenido en
forma muy satisfactoria la cartografia basica y tematica que en general era inexistente en
las reparticiones. Cabe mencionar que en los subproyectos con mayor efectividad. se
puede vincular el exito del subproyecto a la presencia o no de un jefe de subprovecto al
nivel provincial. Todas las provincias han puesto de manifiesto la intencion de integrar
los sistemas catastrales con sistemas de registro de contribuyentes y la mavoria de las
provincias ya cuentan con la red de comunicaciones necesaria o la misma esta en
proceso de adquisici6n.
Conclusiones/Apren dizaj es
A pocos meses del cierre del PDP I, se pueden remarcar algunas observaciones hechas
por ios representantes cle las Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales (lEPs) y de ia L nidad
Ejecutora Central (UEC), asi como tambien de representantes del gobiemo en diversas
entitades provinciales y nacionales visitadas durante la misi6n. Entre estas caberia
mencionar el importante impacto que tuvo el PDP I en cuanto a haber iniciado un
proceso de reforma unico, al nivel subnacional, que recien esta en sus primeras etapas
de desarrollo. El PDP I logro concientizar a un importante sector dentro del aparato
estatal sobre la necesidad de reformar instituciones no s6lo en cuanto a su estructura
fisica o capacidad tecnol6gica, sino tambien en la necesidad de reformar sistemas



70
operativos mejorando la eficiencia burocratica, e incorporando una nueva visi6n de lo
que significa la reforma institucional. Este logro abre caminos para ampliar la agenda
reforrnista a una nueva generaci6n de subproyectos que apunten a una mas profunda y
eleborada  reforma  institucional, incorporando  componentes  de  planeamiento,
capacitaci6n humana, reformulaci6n de sistemas operativos, fortalecimiento  de
mecanismos de justicia e incorporaci6n de la ciudadania en la deterninaci6n de
prioridades.
El PDP I logr6 insertar una nueva "cultura de gesti6n", capacitando a una importante
'dlidid de funcionarios puoiicos, exigienoo una mejor periormance de los actores
participantes en subproyectos, demandando un control mas estricto de calidad, y
poniendo la obra publica en un contexto operativo transparente y competitivo. Los
actores directa o indirectamente afectados por el PDP I estan cambiando su modus
operandi, Ilevando su aprendizaje a otros rubros de la gobernaci6n, lanzando de esta
manera una nueva epoca en la gesti6n gubernamental. Queda mucho por hacer, pero la
semilla de la reforma esta hechando raices.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29348
BOLIVIA6050
\,  ~~/\NPA RAGUAY~
e '"an SbIvador         Of'BR                                                         
dspiujuy            4-1                                        B   RA    ZI.
SAL TA/
'Formosa;
y    Tuqii6n       ICHC C"'
"t    TUCUMAN           ~~~~~Resistena   ,
-  Uv    SAN TIG                   ni         Posadas.0
U           4  ~~~~ctiqdel                    orine
La Ria,0j      >""-*<                 
iN             Elu~IJA '                 S A NTA
u r~~~~ 
U  f  JUAN             0~~~~C6rdoba  'Sana6A
San Juan         -             6 &Plaran6   c
Menoza    Sani                         RiGS
1%    eedza  Lus      7     r'"" ~         URUGUAY
V                        N~~~~~~~j              3 UENN
LA                 AIRES
<1- PM PA                                     N
Neuqu&n
'I    IN0
i                        ARGEN~~TINA,
CF/US LiT                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
k$~~~~~~~ ~~~<                                                 NA~~~~~~~ONAL CAPITAL
4                                                                       -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NI'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~J
Jlo Golkges  "~~~~~~~~~                     0 100 200 300 '400 500 600 KILOMETERS
eu4g'ets   ~~~   VSIC't      U       tOO0    200.   300    400 Miles 
A~~~~  Ushuai ~~~~~~~~~This rnapwxmpwroced by the Map Desiprn Unit ofThe World&Bnk,
~~i    The  ~ ~~epl on;epr tTeWrd Sank Grou any
DEL ~VuC            ;udnseoton IkeJege! toicsof anylerrfor,-o-oyendotsementor
APRIL 19V98



