Page  1
June 26, 1998 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3280-AR (Provincial Development Project) Amendment to the 
Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated February 
15, 1991 (the Loan Agreement), as previously amended. We are pleased to inform you 
that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank 
agrees to amend the Loan Agreement further as follows to extend to the whole of 1998 
the eligibility period within which Housing Sub-projects may fall to be supported with 
Loan 3280-AR financing:
1.
Section 1.02 (x) is hereby amended by deleting the words "the first six months 
of".
2.
Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (h) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "expenditures under an Eligible Emergency Sub-project or a Housing 
Sub-project incurred before June 16, 1992 (except that, in the case of Housing 
Sub-projects carried out as a result of the 1997 or 1998 floods referred to in Section 
1.02 (x) of this Agreement, as well as in the case of Eligible Emergency Sub-project 
carried out as a result of those same floods, such date is replaced by September 1, 
1997); and".
3.
Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (i) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "expenditures under an Eligible Emergency Sub-project or a Housing 
Sub-project incurred after September 30, 1994, or such later date as the Bank may 
establish by notice to the Borrower (except that, in the case of the Eligible 
Emergency Sub-projects or Housing Sub-projects carried out as a result of the floods 
referred to in paragraph 3 (h) of this Schedule, such later date is hereby specified 
as December 31, 1998).". 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
  for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  2
Roque Fernández
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services
Date: August 12, 1998
