Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1181 7-ZA.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING PROJECT
(FILMUP)
June 22,1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit =      Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1   =     K400 at time of appraisal (February 28, 1993)
US$1   =      K500 (April 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
ATC           -     Accountancy Training College, Chingola
CBU           -     Copperbelt University
FCC           -      Financial Component Coordinator
IRC           -      Industrial Relations Court
LCC           -      Legal Component Co-ordinator
LPI           -     Law Practice Institute
MOLA         -      Ministry of Legal Affairs
NIEC          -     National Import and Export Corporation
NSBM         -      NIEC School of Business Management
OED           -      Operations Evaluation Department (of the World Bank)
PMU           -     Project Management Unit
ZICA          -     Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants
ZNTB          -      Zambia National Tender Board



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING PROJECT IFILMUP)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................- i - -iii
L. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction    .               ............................................. 1
B. The Accountancy Profession ........................................ 2
C. Issues in the Accountancy Profession .................................. 5
D. Public Sector Procurement ......................................... 7
E. Issues in Public Sector Procurement ................................... 7
F. The Legal Framework and the Administration  of Justice   ..................... 9
G. Issues in the Legal Framework and the Administrative of Justice  ....                                     .........   12
H. Experience in Previous Projects ..................................... 14
11. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Objectives ......................................... 14
B. Project Description ............................................. 15
General Description .......................................... 15
Detailed Description ......................................... 16
(a) Financial Management Upgrading .............................. 16
Improving Accounting and Auditing Standards  ..................  16
Improving Procurement Standards and Practices ................. 17
(b)    Legal Management Upgrading ............................. 17
(c)    Project Co-ordination and Management ....................... 18
(d)    Studies and Computer Software ............................ 18
C. Cost Estimates                .............................................  20
D. Financing                     .............................................  20
E. Procurement                   .............................................  21
F. Disbursements   . ............................................ 23
G. Accounts and Audit ............................................. 24
Ill. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................... . 26
A. Organization and Management ..................................... 26
B. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting   ................................. 27
C. Mid-term  Review              .............................................  27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Zambia in Febnuary 1993. The
mission consisted of Mr. Uche Mbanefo (Mission Leader and Senior Financial Analyst), Ms. Minneh Kane (Senior
Counsel), and Ms. Sonia Johnson (Consultant). The peer reviewers were Messrs. Colin Lyle for the accountancy
improvement component, R. Gopallrishnan and Arhur Fields for the procurement improvement component, and
Salmon Salman for the legal services improvement component. Ms. Dotilda Sidibe typed the reports. Mr. David
Cook is the managing Division Chief, and Mr. Stephen Denning is the Department Director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance                              I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY  ............................. 28
A. Benefits      .        ............................................ 28
B. Impact on the Economic Reform Program and the Environment ....              ........... 28
C. Sustainability    .    ............................................ 29
D. Risks and Uncertainties .......................................... 29
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........  ..  .                   ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  .    .  29
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table 1:       Project Cost Summary
Table 2:       Project Financing Plan
Table 3:       Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:       Terms of Reference for the Financial Component Co-ordinstor
Annex 2:       Terms of Reference for the Legal Component Co-ordinator
Annex 3:       Terms of Reference for the Education Secretary of ZICA
Annex 4:       Project Cost Tables
Annex 5:       Implementation Schedule and Estimated Annual Disbursements
Annex 6:       Disbursement Schedule
Annex 7:        Project Supervision Plan
Annex 8:       Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:       Terms of Reference for a Procurement Specialist
Annex 10:      Monitorable Indicators



ZAMBIA
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING PROJECT (FILMUP)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of the Republic of Zambia
Benejidares:              Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants (ZICA),
Copperbelt University (CBU), Accountancy Training College
(ATC), NIEC School of Business Management (NSBM),
Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB), Ministry of Legal
Affairs (MOLA), Law Practice Institute (LPI), Industrial
Relations Court (IRC), the Judiciary, and the Registrar of
Companies
Amount:                   SDR 12.8 million (US$18.0 million equivalent)
Tenns:                    Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Objectives:   The objectives of the project are to improve the flow of government business,
improve the implementation of development programs, and facilitate reform, by removing
identified obstacles through capacity building and institutional development in the areas of
accounting and auditing, public sector procurement, legal drafting, the administration of
justice, and the provision of business information. The project is expected to result in:
-     improved accounting and auditing standards;
-     a stronger ZICA, capable of better regulating the accountancy profession, and
of introducing a national accounting technicians qualification;
-     more trained accountants, particularly at the technician and intermediate levels;
-     faster and more efficient procurement practices and standardized documentation
that meet international standards, and are acceptable to most donors;
-     faster legal drafting;
-     a faster and more efficient Industrial Relations Court, and improved
administration of justice; and
-     better accessibility to company information for investors.



- ii -
Project Description:  The project is divided into two main parts: financial management
upgrading, comprising improvements to accounting and procurement services, and legal
management upgrading, which consists of improvements to legal services. Extimated to cost
about US$19.6 million over a five-year period, the project would provide assistance for: (a)
Flnandal Management Improvement through (i) accountancy development and training
(US$2.5 million) by providing training, equipment, library support and technical assistance for
the main professional accountancy organization, ZICA, and three major accountancy training
institutions, namely, the Accountancy Training College (ATC), the NIEC School of Business
Management (NSBM), and the Accountancy Department of Copperbelt University; and (ii)
procurement improvement (US$2.1 million) by providing training, equipment, and technical
assistance to the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB); (b) Legal Management Upgrading
(US$12.5 million) through the provision of training, equipment, minor building rehabilitation
works, and essential publications for the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) and its major
agencies including the Judiciary, the Industrial Relations Court (IRC) and the Law Practice
Insdtute (LPI) as well as for the Registrar of Companies and legal services of a few key
Ministries (e.g., Finance, Agriculture, Lands, Industry and Trade); (c) PrJect Co-ordination
and Management (US$2.5 million) to pay for the office costs and salaries of two project
coordinators: one for the financial management component, who will also serve as the project
accountant, and the other for the legal management component, the costs of a procurement
specialist, a supervising architect, the costs of the project launch workshop, the independent
audit of project accounts, studies and computer software, and the incremental operating costs
of project institutions (to be financed by the government).
Benefits:    The project is expected to result in both quantitative and qualitative benefits.
Although the capacity building nature of the project precludes the normal calculations of rates
of return, several project benefits can be quantified, and will be closely monitored. These
include, for example, the number accountancy students graduating from the CBU, ATC and the
NSBM; the number of legal draftmen trained, and the number of cases brought before the
Industrial Relations Courts during a specified period (e.g., one year). Qualitative benefits
(also to be closely monitored during project implementation) include ZICA's ability to evolve a
unified and generally-accepted system of accountancy qualifications; ZNTB's ability to
introduce standardized and widely accepted procurement standards and procedures; and the
quality of service received by investors and members of the public seeking information on
existing companies at the Registrar of Companies.
Risks:       The greatest risk to the project is the possible transfer to other duties of the
dedicated civil servants and others who prepared it, and are committed to its successful
implementation. The second risk is inadequate Government funding. Provisions in the
Development Credit Agreement would seek to deal with both risks.



- i,, -
1. ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Cost Summary
% of
LocaI        Foreign      Total Total
Financial Management Upgrading          0.7           3.3          4.0    23
Legal Management Upgrading              0.9          10.0          10.9   64
Studies and Computer Software            -            0.4          0.4     2
Project Coordination and Management     0.6           0.3          0.9     5
Incremental Operating Costs              1.0          -            1.0     6
Total Base Costs                        3.2          14.0          17.2  100
Physical Contingencies                   .0           0.5          0.5     3
Price Contingencies                     0 3           E6           1.9    11
Total Project Costs                      3.5         16.1          19.6  114
Financing Plan                          USS Million
local        Foreign             Toa
IDA                              1.9           16.1                18.0
Government                       1.6            .0                  E6
TOTAL               35           16.1                196
2. Estimated IDA Disbursements in US$ Thousands
Fiscal Year   1994     1995     1996      1997     1998      1999
Annual        2,580    8,669    2,028     1,704     1,636     1,383
Cumulative    2,580    11,249   13,277    14,981    16,617    18,000






1. BACKGROUND
A. Inboduction
1.01         This report describes the first World Bank-financed project devoted to capacity building
in legal, accounting, and procurement services in Zambia.
1.02         In early 1992 the Government reached agreement with the World Bank and the IMF on
a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which sets our clearly Zambia's objective of moving the economy to
one that is based on private initiative and free market principles. The PFP outlined also the extensive
reforms deemed necessary to achieve that end. Zambia's progress along this path of reform has been
quite impressive. Agricultural marketing has been liberalized. The budget deficit has been reduced from
7% to 2% of GDP. Interest rates have been completely de-controlled, and the Kwacha has been aligned
to the marcet rate. A major privatization program designed to improve the efficiency of public
enterprises is underway.
1.03         Government strategy aims at providing a less intrusive and more supportive framework
for private investment, rehabilitation of the physical and social infrastructure, improvement of social
services, alleviation of poverty, implementation of environmental policies, and enhancement of the
efficiency of public institutions. This last element of the strategy (improvement of the efficiency of public
institutions, including the civil service), as well as improvement of accountability and legal services key
to the privatization effort, are the focus of the project described in this report.
1.04         The Government has embarked on a comprehensive public sector reform program. The
program is essentially home-grown, and has been the subject of several government-organized workshops
and seminars designed to explore the issues and to build a national consensus towards reform. The
program, as well as the overall structural adjustment program of which it is part, is also supported by
the World Bank, IMF, and bilateral donors. The Bank's analysis of the underlying public sector
management problems is contained in the two-volume report, "Republic of Zambia: Public Sector
Management Review," Vol. 1, Main Report; Vol.II Technical Annexes (Report No.9827-ZA). The
program has also been highlighted in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP), and is expected to extend over
a number of years, during which the Government and IDA are expected to agree on a series of
IDA-financed operations to support the process. Two recent major operations in the series were the
Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC) and its associated Technical Assistance (PIRCTA)
project, approved by IDA in FY92. A Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC II) is
scheduled for IDA Board consideration in June 1993. The project described in this document is next in
the series. It is designed to create, on a permanent basis, the indigenous skills necessary to assure the
successful implementation of the PIRC. It will be followed by others currently under preparation. Some
of these future operations would introduce systemic reforms involving the entire civil service. Others
would focus on reforms in one particular sector of the economy (e.g. agriculture). Yet others may
combine elements of these two approaches.
1.05         The Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP) described in this
report is targeted at certain obvious but key bottlenecks, such as inadequate accounting and auditing, poor
procurement, slow disbursement, inadequate legal drafting capability, weak administration of justice, and
inadequate investor information services, all of which are seriously hindering development in other areas.
For example, under the PIRC and PIRCTA projects cited above government has agreed to revise a long
list of laws dealing with the business, e.g. the Banking Act and the Companies Act. However,
Government has made it clear that it lacks permanent capacity to draft necessary legislation. This project



- 2 -
will address that need. It has also been possible to identify within these functions a core of dedicated
civil servants who, regardless of their poor salaries and incentives (being addressed in the context of a
wider civil service reform program), are soldiering on in these functions with inadequate human and
material resources. The Government has indicated to IDA a strong need to provide sharply targeted
training and equipment to such dedicated civil servants and others to enable them to remove the serious
obstacles to development in the areas discussed in this paragraph.
B. 7he Accountancy Professlow
1.06         The accountancy profession in Zambia is relatively young. During the 1960s and 1970s
professional accountants were represented by the Zambia Association of Accountants. This Association
was predominantly expatriate and served as a forum to exchange ideas and bring together the accountants
that were working in Zambia. Because it was an expatriate organization, it was not able to secure
Government recognition and therefore could not develop in any real sense of the word. The Association
did, however, stay in existence until its role was subsumed into the Zambia Institute of Certified
Accountants (ZICA), with the enactment of the Accountants Act of 1982. Even then, various
administrative and other difficulties intervened, which meant that ZICA did not really act as a
professional body until the beginning of 1985.
1.07         The Accountants Act has given to ZICA all the normal functions of a professional body
covering: education, training and examining, registration and licensing; professional standards, ethics and
discipline; research, publications and support services, and liaison with the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC) and other international accountancy bodies. ZICA has been constrained in its
development. Originally, it was not allowed to determine which accountants, belonging to professional
bodies in other countries, should be allowed to have the benefit of ZICA membership. The granting of
membership was, in effect, the prerogative of the Government (really the Ministry of Finance) and was
awarded through the passing of a statutory instrument. Any plans that ZICA produced for developing
the profession had to be approved by the relevant authorities first, often a lengthy and time consuming
process. This type of control inhibited the growth and development of ZICA and its ability to react in
a dynamic manner to the changing environment.
1.08         The new Government has shown a willingness to allow the profession to determine and
regulate its own future. From its inception ZICA has maintained a policy of establishing and maintaining
the highest professional standards and ethics that are commensurate with a professional accountancy body
that belongs to the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The Institute has watched, with
interest, the developments that have taken place in countries in the sub-region, in particular the
experiences of Tanzania and Kenya in localizing their examinations. The information gained has been
used in developing the new examination structures and the three tier profession that is now being
implemented.
1.09         In 1991 ZICA prepared a report entitled: "Proposals on the future structure, training and
development of the accountancy profession in Zambia." This document is preparing the accountancy
profession in Zambia for the twenty first century. It provides a structure that would enable the profession
to meet the industrial and commercial needs of Zambia. Contained in the document are plans to assist
the localization of the examinations. This will ensure that they are more relevant to the needs of Zambia
and the sub-region, especially in the law and taxation areas. The report also proposes a rationalization
of the educational sector in an attempt to use the scarce resources that are available more effectively.



-3-
This should assist the country in becoming self sufficient in accountants and thereby reduce the country's
dependency on expatriates which is very expensive in foreign exchange terms.
1.10         The report establishes a number of objectives for ZICA which are:
Professional Objectives
-     designation of ZICA as the sole professional accountancy body in
Zambia responsible for all professional, sub-professional and accountant
technicians who are to be registered within the country;
-     statutory restriction of the use of the words "Accountant' and 'Auditor'
to registered members of ZICA;
-     streamlining and improvement of the co-ordination of the Zambian
accountancy profession in its broad sense;
-     increase in the number of qualified accountants at all levels in Zambia;
and
-     utilization of the resources available in the most economic and efficient
manner.
Educational Objectives
p rogressive localization of the examinations;
moderation of examination of accounting technician courses in Zambia
by the council of ZICA or its nominees;
streamlining of courses that are currently available in accountancy in
Zambia, to ensure that each course maintains the required standard for
the type of graduate that it produces.
Regulatory Objectives
-     Strengthening of legislation to ensure that the standard of accountancy
reports is maintained at international levels and meets the needs of the
Zambian business and industrial environment;
development of company law and other legislation that is necessary to
ensure that all commercial and non commercial organizations act in a
responsible manner and report accordingly; and
development of accountancy standards appropriate to the business
environment in Zambia.



-4-
1.11         There is a serious shortage in Zambia of accounting personnel in general, and of qualified
Zambian nationals in particular. The most recent studies indicate that the present requirement for
accounting personnel and the current availability are:-
Levl                             Reuired             Available
Professionally Qualified          420                 150
Sub professional                 1680                 500
Technicians                      6000                2000
Source: ZICA Report, November 1992.
With the current economic liberalization and privatization, it is anticipated that the demand for all types
of accountants will increase sharply over the coming few years and by the year 2000 there could be a
need for up to 650 professional, 2,500 sub-professional, and 9,500 technician level accountants.
1.12         The Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training (DTEVT) in the
Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has been very active, with Irish aid, in developing
accountancy qualifications and training at the technician level. It owns and operates the Evelyn Hone
College and the National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA) (see below). However, its
cooperation with ZICA in the past has left a lot to be desired. A warmer relationship has developed
recently and would be further encouraged under this project particularly through the terms of reference
of the proposed education secretary for ZICA.
1.13         There are many private accounting firms in Zambia, including representative offices of
four of the large international firms. As in most former British colonies, the Accountant-General is
responsible for all civil service accounting, and the Auditor-General for all its auditing. However,
Zambia, like practically all other African countries, has difficulty in retaining highly-qualified or
experienced staff in government, because of the poor salaries in the civil service compared with the
private and parastatal sectors.
1.14         There are eight recognized accountancy training institutions in Zambia, of which only the
Zambia Center for Accountancy Studies (ZCAS) trains accountants to the highest
internationally-recognized professional level. ZCAS was established with the support of the European
Community (EC) in July 1988. It is a professional accountancy college providing full-time tuition for
the final two levels of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants and the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants, both UK-based accounting bodies. The success rate of students at ZCAS, in
competitive, externally-set and moderated examinations, has been very high, with an average pass rate
of over 65% compared to a worldwide average of less than 35 %. At present there are approximately 220
students attending ZCAS' courses each year. The other institutions are the Copperbelt University (CBU),
the Accountancy Training College (ATC), the NIEC School of Business Management (NSBM), the
Zambia Institute of Management (ZIM), Evelyn Hone College, the NIPA (see above), and the Zambia
Insurance Business College.
1.15         The Copperbelt Univesity (CBU) is an amalgam of the Ndola campus of the University
of Zambia and the Zambian Institute of technology (ZIIT), both of which used to share the same campus.
The university provides the only degree course in accountancy in the country and has an expected output
of approximately 40 graduates per annum from this program. CBU has received some foreign assistance



in the past from the European Community (1981 to 1992, now terminated), Irish Aid (1983-89), and the
British Overseas Administration (ODA). As part of the Zambianization program, all of the donors
provided a number of scholarships to allow Zambian lecturers to train abroad. The Department of
Accounting numerically is quite strong with 11 lecturers/staff development fellows. The problem is that
none of these lecturers is professionally qualified (i.e. they all have academic rather than professional
training and qualifications), and they tend to be relatively young and inexperienced. If further assistance
is not given in the near future, it is feasible that the high standards that have been achieved in the past
few years will not be maintained. This could have serious consequences for the Zambian economy, as
the supply of well qualified graduates who can train as professional accountants, will dry up.
1.16         The NIEC School of Business Management (NSBM) was founded to train staff of the
National Import and Export Corporation (NIEC). In 1986 it introduced courses for the Association of
Accounting Technicians (AAT) and Stages II and III of the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants (both British Qualifications). Its location near Ndola - Zambia's major industrial town -
makes it a ready source of accounting technicians for Zambian industry. NIEC is being privatized, but
the school will in future operate as a private trust whose recurrent budget will continue to be financed
by the nine surviving retail subsidiaries of NIEC. The Accountancy Ihining CoUlege (ATC) in Chingola
was founded by the copper mines in the 1960s to ensure for themselves a steady supply of trained
accountants. Many of these later find employment elsewhere in the economy. ATC offers a College
Certificate in Accountancy (technician level) with an enrollment of about 50 students a year. Graduates
from that level may enrol for ATC's course for the Association of Accounting Technicians Stage III,
whose graduates in turn may enrol for courses for the Chartered Institute of Management accountants,
also provided by ATC.
1.17         Almost all the training institutions described above have received some external donor
support, even though most of it has expired, or is about to expire. One exception is ZCAS whose project
support from the European Community has recently been renewed for another four years. Unfortunately,
there has been little or no co-ordination of the considerable external assistance Zambia has received for
accountancy education in the past. This lack of co-ordination has considerably reduced the effectiveness
of much of the aid that has been received.
1.18         Civil service accounting has also received (and is still receiving) considerable external
support, particularly from ODA and from the IDA-financed Second Technical Assistance project. The
one area that has never received external support is ZICA itself, which has the duty to organize and
regulate the profession, and coordinate its development.
C. Isues in the Accountancy Profession
1.19         The main issues in the accountancy profession include:
*     the severe shortage of qualified nationals;
*     the weakness of ZICA as a professional body;
*     the absence of Zambian qualifications in accountancy;
*     the proliferation of qualifications at the technician level; and



- 6-
*     the poor coordination of past external assistance for accountancy training.
1.20         There is a chronic shortage of qualified accountants in Zambia, and, with the current
liberalization of the economy, that shortage is likely to get worse. Furthermore, the majority of the
fully-qualified accountants in the country are expatriates whose employment costs the country a great deal
of foreign exchange. There is, therefore, an acute need to train more Zambians to the highest
professional levels. The European Community (EC) - financed ZCAS is catering for training at the
highest level, but is running out of 'raw material", i.e., middle level accountants or university graduates
to train in ZCAS.
1.21         Partly as a result of its late start, ZICA is a relatively weak professional organization.
Its enabling Act was only passed in 1982, and it only began to function as a professional body in 1985.
Most other African countries which gained independence in the 1960s already had active accountancy
professional bodies by the early 1970s. They, therefore, had a 10 to 15 years head start compared with
Zambia. Today ZICA does not publish an up-to-date list of its members; it does not set any local
examinations; and it does not perform many of the functions which accountancy institutes in other African
countries take for granted, and which are authorized by its enabling Act.
1.22         Zambia does not have an indigenous professional level accountancy qualification. The
Zambia Diploma in Accountancy is a technician level qualification with very limited recognition outside
the country. Unlike accountancy students in many other African countries, most of Zambia's aspiring
accountants train for foreign qualifications, many of them even at the technician level. This state of
affairs is largely explained by the weakness of ZICA, noted earlier. The creation of an indigenous
accountancy qualification is not just a matter of national pride or loyalty. A qualified accountant should
be thoroughly conversant with the specific business, company, and taxation laws and practices of the
country in which he or she is to practice. Foreign qualifications cover these matters with specific
reference to the particular foreign country in which and for which the qualification was originally
designed. No foreign examination tests the candidates' knowledge of the laws, taxation, or business
practices of Zambia, particularly the body of case law which has built up during nearly 30 years of
independence. It is necessary for ZICA to gear up to deal with this issue.
1.23         There is an unhealthy proliferation of technician level accountancy qualifications which
confuses students, employers, and the public alike. This situation is due in large measure to the past cool
relationship between ZICA and DTEVT. As noted above, a thaw has recently set in, and one of the aims
of this project would be to promote this improvement in relationship with a view to harmonizing
accountancy qualifications.
1.24         In response to the chronic shortage of accountants noted earlier, large amounts of foreign
assistance have been applied in the training of accounting personnel at different levels. Unfortunately,
most of this assistance has been neither properly focussed, nor adequately co-ordinated. ZICA would
be the natural institution to provide the right focus and provide the badly-needed leadership in this area.
However, its wealness, noted earlier, has not allowed this. It is now necessary to assist ZICA, firstly,
to decide (in collaboration with the DTEVT) on a limited number of officially-recognized levels of
accounting qualification for the country, and secondly to encourage training institutions and their donors
to prepare candidates for only those qualifications.



D. Pubic Sector Procuemwt
1.25         Public sector procurement in Zambia is governed primarily by the Zambia National
Tender Board Act, 1982, setting up the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB), and the Tender
Regulations, 1990, setting up the Committees of the Board and establishing their procurement approval
limits. The Board consists of a chairman and twelve other members, seven of them 'ex officio." All
but the "ex officio' members are appointed by the President. Government procurement up to certain
limits prescribed in the Regulations are handled by three types of committees:
-     Provincial Tender Committees set up in each province to handle all
Government procurements other than for district councils and parastatal
organizations: such procurements are described in the regulations as
'Government purchases";
-     Parastatal Tender Committees set up in each District Council (District
councils are described as "parastatals" in the regulations) and each
parastatal other than a district Council; and
Central Tender Committee which authorizes procurements above the
limits set for the other two types of committees. The membership of all
the committees is specified in the regulations. The Chairman of the
Central Tender Committee is the Permanent Secretary for Finance.
1.26         The last World Bank Country Procurement Assessment in Zambia was in 1984. At that
time the ZNTB Act, although approved by Parliament, had not become effective, and the Tender
Regulations, 1990, were still in draft. The assessment was therefore based on these drafts or
not-yet-effective documents. There is no certainty that the draft reviewed in that assessment was adopted
without alteration. A new country Procurement Assessment is clearly overdue, and would either be
undertaken during the course of this project, or replaced by the diagnostic study proposed in the project.
1.27         Meanwhile, experience of implementing Government's own, as well as IDA and other
donor financed, operations suggests that there are serious procurement problems which have the effect
of delaying project implementation in several sectors. At the end of 1991 the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA) approved a US$1.8 million project to provide technical assistance and
training in import management to selected Zambian officials (including those from ZNTB). However,
the principal focus of the project was the group of Ministries (Agriculture, Health, General Education
and Science and Technology) that have been the focus of SIDA assistance in Zambia. Two things that
are still needed are to bring all Zambian procurement practices Oocal and foreign), including the
government's own procurement, up to the best international practices, and to standardize and harmonize
such practices and their documentation in a way that satisfies the requirements of the majority of
Zambia's financiers and donors.
E. svues In Pubic Sector Procurwemn
1.28         As explained in Chapter 1, the legislation on Zambian government procurement is clear.
The main issues have to do with matters not covered in the legislation, such as:



*     the need to harmonize donor requirements and evolve one standard set
of procurement practices and documentation acceptable to most donors;
*     the need to bring Zambian government procurement skills and practices
(for its own normal domestic procurements) up to modem international
levels;
*     clarification of the relationships between the Zambia National Tender
Board, its Committees, and its clients; and
*     the need to revise Tender Committee limits regularly to take account of
inflation.
1.29         A major source of frustration for Government officials and donors is the delay in project
implementation due to the multiplicity of procurement rules applying to the numerous donor projects in
the country. Every donor has tended to set up its own project implementation unit (PMU) within major
Ministries (e.g. agriculture). Even when one PMU tries to manage all externally-financed projects, it
needs to apply different sets of procurement guidelines to meet the requirements of different donors.
This overstretches the available institutional capacity and dilutes accountability. There is therefore an
urgent need to harmonize donor procurement requirements, and evolve one standard set of procurement
regulations and documentation that should satisfy as many donors as possible.
1.30         The kind of harmonization advocated above should result in Zambian standard
procurement practices that are up to the highest international standards. This in not the case now, partly
because of the multiplicity noted above, partly because of inadequate procurement skills (which can be
remedied by the training proposed in this project), and partly because much of the limited training
proposed so far has been focused on import procurement . There is a need to raise the national level of
procurement skills in the country so as to apply efficient procurement practices, not only to imports, but
also to local contracts for civil works, goods, and services; and not only to externally-financed items, but
also to purchases financed by the Government itself.
1.31         Since the introduction of the Tender Regulations, 1990, the Zambia National Tender
Board (ZNTB) which has the overall responsibility for all government procurements has been trying to
work out exactly how the Tender Committees set up by the Regulations should operate and how they
should interact with the Ministries, parastatals, and local authorities. The project would assist in
clarifying these relationships and smoothening the interaction between ZNTB and its clients.
1.32         In 1990 when the regulations were issued by the Minister of Finance one US$ exchanged
for about K50. As of April 1993, one US$ exchanged for about K500. This means that the K2.5 million
limit set in 1990 as the trigger point at which a procurement contract should be referred to the Central
Tender Committee (CTC) has decreased in US$terms from US$50,000 to $5,000 (barely enough to
import one desk-top computer and its peripherals). If such relatively minor contracts from all Ministries,
all projects, all district councils, and more than 100 parastatal organizations have to be submitted to the
CTC, its work load would be so enormous that the backlog of procurement approvals would bring many
projects to a halt. It is therefore critically important that this limit be reviewed frequently to take account
of local inflation and other changing circumstances. This fact was recognized by a recent upward review
of the limit. However, it is necessary to introduce machinery for the automatic review of the limit at
regular intervals.



- 9-
1.33         It is also necessary to examine the possibility of delegating responsibility for procurement
to those parastatal institutions that are judged capable or handling it independently of the CTC. This is
not allowed under present legislation, but if it was found feasible, and necessary legislative changes were
introduced, procurement could be considerably speeded up. This possibility would be examined under
the project.
F. The Legaf Framwork and the Adins on of Justico
1.34         Like all the Commonwealth African countries, Zambia inherited an intricate mix of
common law and customary laws for its legal system. The British instituted common law to govern the
relationships involving Europeans in Zambia. They left land tenure, marriage and other personal laws
that involved relations between native Zambians in the domain of customary law. Today, the Zambian
legal system is a mixture of the two types of law. The set of the Laws of Zambia represents the
legislative texts adopted formally by parliament since independence. In addition, customary laws continue
to govern the majority of Zambians in their dealings with each other in certain aspects of their lives.
The Ainisy of Legal Affais (MOLA)
1.35         The central coordinating institution in the government on legal matters is the Ministry of
Legal Affairs (MOLA). The Ministry has two top executives: the Minister, and the Attorney General
(AG). Traditionally in Commonwealth African countries, the Attorney General was the chief government
lawyer. The introduction of a Minister of Legal Affairs, also a lawyer by profession, is an innovation that
has occurred not only in Zambia. The set up can lead to a duplication, or even confusion, of functions
as it means that the staff report on professional matters to both executives. Under the AG is the Solicitor
General who deals with all civil matters, and the Director of Public Prosecutions who deals with criminal
matters. The State Advocates who perform the day to day functions of the Ministry are organized into
Departments and Sections. The Administration Section, headed by the Permanent Secretary, deals with
the administration of the Ministry.
1.36         The Civil Section defends and institutes civil cases for and on behalf of the State while
the International Section is responsible for negotiating and drafting international treaties and agreements.
The Depawtnent of Legislatve Drafing coordinates domestic law reform and prepares final drafts of all
Bills which are presented to parliament by the Attorney General. When a Government ministry requires
a policy change reflected in law reform, the Ministry should prepare a Cabinet memorandum seeking
approval of the law. The memorandum should explain in narrative form the nature of the proposed law
and why it is required. Once Cabinet approval is granted, the Ministry should send drafting instructions
to the Department of Legislative Drafting (in MOLA) narrating in prose the nature of the proposed law.
The Departmnent of Legislative Drafting should then use these instructions to draft the Bill. These
procedures are not always followed. Line ministries sometimes attempt to gain time by producing
'layman's drafts' of Bills and sending these to the Department of Legislative Drafting. This leads to
serious delays in the passing of laws, as the line ministry first spends inordinate and unnecessary time
in drafting laws, and then the work is often redone in the Department of Legislative Drafting - a process
which takes the Department more time than if they just had a clear narrative to work from.
1.37         The Law Revision Commission. The Law Revision Commissioner reports to the Chief
Parliamentary Draftsman. His function is to systematically revise laws as needed. He has just completed



- 10-
updating the Laws of Zambia which now need to be published, and IDA financial assistance has been
requested for this task.
1.38         The Office of the Dirdctor of Public Prosecutions. The Director of Public Prosecutions
(the DPP) heads the department that advises the govermnent on criminal law matters and prosecutes
criminal cases in the High and Supreme courts on behalf of the Republic. The DPP runs a semi
autonomous department although he reports to the Attorney-General. The DPP also supervises the work
of several law enforcement agencies, including the Police. In the subordinate courts where they have
right of audience, the police prosecutors actually take the cases to court themselves, under the supervision
of the DPP who is ultimately responsible for their actions. This relationship is uneasy as the police do
not report to the DPP administratively. In addition to the police, specialized law enforcement agencies
have been set up to deal with the increase in legal work that is expected with privatization. Examples
are The National Park awd WVef4  Commission, the Economic Crime Unit, the Drug Evforcent
Unit, the Ant Cornqlon Commission and The National Environmental Council. Lay investigators,
appointed to these entities, identify violations of the laws and make decisions as to pursuit of the cases,
rather like the Police Prosecutors. There is an urgent need to train these prosecutors to ensure that they
understand the newly enacted laws.
1.39         The Law Pmeie Institute (LPI). This is the body that prepares lawyers for practice in
Zambia through professional training. It administers the Bar examinations and determines entry to the
practising legal profession. The institute is administered by the Council of Legal Education. It has one
full time administrator and no permanent teaching staff. The Institute needs better facilities, and is in the
process of moving to larger quarters. It should be assisted to improve the quality of teaching.
1.40         The Insdtute of Legal Drafing (ILD). This was created to teach parliamentary drafting.
It used to be a dynamic institute enrolling students from all over Southern and Eastern Africa.
Unfortunately, it lost its Director, who has not yet been replaced. The Government is therefore currently
forced to send its draftsmen abroad for training. The institute is potentially a useful vehicle for local
taining of lawyers in drafting and its revitalization should be considered, several Zambians have
suggested a merger of ILD with LPI, as an economical means of strengthening both institutions. The
physical merger would be achieved through this project, even though the different missions of the two
institutions would still call for some separate as well as some shared staffing.
1.41         The Law Development Commission (LDC).  When working properly, the Law
Development Commission would be made up of seasoned and highly respected jurists, e.g. retired judges
and other nationally recognized lawyers who study areas of law on their own initiative and make
recommendations for reform. It should thus provide direction in legal reform. Unforunately, the present
Law Development Commission is severely understaffed and incapable of playing this role, and it would
be assisted under this project.
1.42         The Legal Aid Clnc. This provides free legal services to indigent citizens. It is
working reasonable well, even though it is understaffed, and the increase in cases arising out of the
privatization process may swamp the clinic. The Administrator General administrates estates in cases
of intestate succession, or in any other case where an administrator was not appointed by the deceased.
The work of this office is expected to increase dramatically with the land registration drive that will lead
to increased contests over inheritance of land. The Legal Services Corporation. This body used to
provide legal services for all the parastatals. It has been abolished. Its lawyers are to be reintegrated
into other functions in the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA).



- 1 1 -
The Judiiy
1.43         The Supreme Couwt. The Head of the Judiciary is the Chief Justice, who heads the
Supreme Court, the court of final appeal. There are nine Supreme Court judges, including the Chief
Justice. The High Court is the first court of general jurisdiction hearing at first instance civil and
criminal matters whose importance puts them outside the jurisdiction of the subordinate courts. It also
hears appeals from the Subordinate Courts. In addition to Lusaka and Kitwe, the High court sits in all
the provincial capitals except Mansa and Solwezi. The Magistrates Couts and the Local Courts (the
Subordinate Courts) consist of the Resident Magistrates Courts and the Local Courts. The magistrates
courts (54 in all) deal with matters involving received or 'English' law, while the Local Courts
(numbering about 435) only deal with matters involving customary law. Thus, for instance, intestate
succession would be dealt with by the Local Courts while succession cases where a will was left would
fall within the jurisdiction of the magistrates courts. Similarly, disputes involving unregistered land
would fall within the jurisdiction of the Local Courts while those involving registered land would have
to be taken to the Magistrates Courts. The Local Courts are not bound by English rules of civil or
criminal procedure, and lawyers are not permitted to appear before them.
1.44         The Industrial Relatons Couwl (IRC). This court was established to deal with all labor
disputes in the private sector. The Chairman of the IRC is a lawyer with the same rank and conditions
of service as a judge. Appeals from the IRC are directly to the Supreme Court. There is currently one
Chairman and one Vice Chairman who are both based in Lusaka, and spend two weeks at a time sitting
in Ndola, in order to deal with cases arising there. It is important to create a court in Ndola, as there
are more industries based in the Copperbelt than around Lusaka. In Ndola, the Industrial Relations Court
is granted the use of a room by the High Court, because it has no facilities of its own. As the court has
no official car, the Chairman and Vice Chairman are forced to use their personal cars or public transport,
which is hazardous and awkward as they need to transport confidential case information, as well as
typewriters and other office equipment and supplies that are not available for them in Ndola. In Lusaka
the Industrial Relations Court is housed independently from the rest of the judiciary. The building has
only one court room, and so if the Chairman and Vice Chairman sit at the same time, the Vice Chairman
is forced to hear his cases in his office.
1.45         It takes the court an average of six months to schedule a case, and twelve months on
average to resolve one. This should be reduced to allow the court to play a dynamic role in conflict
resolution. With privatization and the increase in private sector activity, the work of this Court will
become increasingly crucial, and it will be important to ensure that it can meet the challenge of its new
role. The Industrial Relations Court needs materials, including reference books, office equipment, and
vehicles. There is also a need to expand the Court by appointing two Vice Chairmen for the Court in
Ndola, increasing the staff in Lusaka, and expanding the court space in both cities.
Comrmercal Laws and Prvate sector Deveopment
1.46         Under the Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit (PIRC) the government
has undertaken (and requested technical assistance) to amend the laws dealing with banking, companies,
business licensing, insurance, and the Stock Exchange, and to enact anti-monopolies legislation. As a
start, three foreign consultants have been identified and the PIRC Technical Assistance Project has
earmarked some funds for the exercise. Zambian contract law is currently governed by the English law
in effect on August 17, 1911. It is necessary to either draft a Law of Contracts for Zambia, or, if the
government decides to retain the English law, at least to apply the current English law to Zambia. The



- 12 -
existing laws that make up the Laws of Zambia (30 volumes) have been kept current by the
Attorney-General's Chambers, but the Government has lacked the funds to publish and distribute them.
It was calculated in 1991 that it would cost about two million US dollars to complete this task. The
government of Canada has already donated C$45,000 and pledged another C$45,000. The Government
of Zambia has requested IDA assistance with the balance.
Tho Lkw A     5nisOle.
1.47         Each Ministry has its in house lawyers who advise it on legal and policy issues in its
everyday work. The coordination of the work of these lawyers with that of the Attorney General's
Chambers needs to be improved. As discussed above, law reform has been needlessly delayed because
the ministries have attempted to draft laws themselves instead of producing clear narrative instructions
for the Attorney General's Chambers to enable the latter to draft the laws as quicldy as possible. In order
to accelerate the process of law revision, there is a need to bring these Ministries together formally with
MOLA to agree on implementation of the correct legal drafting procedure. The ministries that have most
become involved in law reform due to the privatization process in Zambia include the Ministry of
FYnance, the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Trade, Ministry of Lands, and the Ministry of
Infornation and Broadcasting.
The Regstar of Comppanies
1.48         Although it is located in the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Trade rather than in
MOLA, the Registrar of Companies (formally the Registrar of Companies, Business Names, Patents,
Trademarks and Registered Designs) is one of the key providers of business-related legal services in the
country. The registrar, his deputy, and their principal assistants are all lawyers. The department is
divided into two sections: The Industrial Property Section which deals with patents, trademarks, and
registered designs; and the Commercial Section which deals with incorporated companies and business
names. The latter section which registers and provides information on businesses is particularly important
to the business community, and this importance is sure to increase with privatization and efforts to
promote new investment. Its office equipment, particularly information storage and retrieval capabilities
need considerable improvement, to enable the department to cope with the anticipated increase in its
activities.
G. isue  In te Legal Framework and Administraion of Justice
1.49         The main issues impeding the administration of justice include the following:
*     the inadequate legal drafting capability in the country and the
difficulty of retaining qualified staff;
*     failure of line ministries to follow established procedures
regarding law revision and drafting of new laws;
*     the inadequate training available at all levels of the judicial
system;
*     the very poor physical working conditions in the law courts and



- 13-
*     the poor system  of legal information, including company
information.
1.50         The Attorney General's office has only two qualified draftsmen. Others who have
previously been trained have left for the private sector. There is a world-wide shortage of draftsmen,
as it is an exceedingly specialized activity. It is therefore necessary to train draftsmen for the
government, and to devise strategies to retain them. The Ministry of Legal affairs (MOLA) should also
develop a strategy to retain the staff that it trains and to attract and keep quality Zambian lawyers. This
inability to hold on to good staff is a fundamental problem. This is also, however, a civil service reform
issue, likely to be dealt with in the context of the proposed public sector management reform project.
1.51         The line ministries are supposed to produce statements of policy change and drafting
instructions for the Attorney General's Chambers.   A needs assessment should be undertaken to
determine the legal needs (technical assistance and training) of the line ministries and other government
agencies involved in the privatization process (i.e. the Ministries of Commerce, Industry and Trade, and
Lands, the Bank of Zambia and the Zambia Privatization Agency).
1.52         Zambia lacks the funds to provide quality on-the-job training in local schools or to send
judges and magistrates abroad for training. At the same time, the rapid changes in the legal environment
brought about by privatization initiatives, and by the increasing internationalization of trade relations in
Zambia, require constant renewal and widening of skills. Training of judges boosts their morale, and
increases public confidence in the judiciary, especially if it is accompanied by the introduction of
conditions of service that allow judges to decide cases without undue pressure from the executive or
legislative branches. Process servers, court clerks and transcribers and executors of judgements are
people who perform very specialized tasks that are essential to the efficient workings of the judiciary.
In Zambia, while there do exist many well motivated individuals who are producing excellent work in
hard circumstances, there is an overall need for more training, and in particular for training in
computerized word processing. A training program would be included in this project for the judiciary,
the Ministry of Legal Affairs and other bodies involved in providing legal or paralegal services to the
Government (e.g., the specialized law enforcement agencies) as well as a program to restore the Law
Practice Institute and the Institute of Legal Drafting to the status of dynamic centers of legal training.
1.53         The physical working conditions of the judiciary reflect three decades of benign neglect.
With the exception of the Supreme Courts, the courts are housed in old buildings some with leaking roofs
and broken doors and windows. There is often inadequate space to accommodate the staff. Security of
documents is compromised by inadequate storage facilities, including unlockable filing cabinets leading
to theft of court records. Word processing is greatly hindered by the lack of modern equipment. To
remedy this, Government has requested World Bank assistance with the renovation of court buildings
(including the Industrial Relations court (RC) in Lusaka), establishment of a new IRC court in Ndola,
and the purchase of document processing, transportation, and office equipment.
1.54         Another major weakness of the judicial system is inadequate dissemination of legal
information. Interested parties and their lawyers often do not know what the law is, as court judgments
and legislative texts are not published due to lack of funds. Lawyers and judges are forced to rely on
informal means of ascertaining what judgements have been delivered. Decisions are often contradictory
as judges are unaware of what other judges have decided. This is particularly problematic in a country
that is supposed to rely on precedent as the means of deciding cases. The Courts should be provided with
the means to publish judgements for distribution to the legal profession and to disseminate and use legal
information.  In particular, Government has requested IDA  assistance with the financing of



- 14 -
computerization of legal information, including systems to link up with existing computers in MOLA,
the judiciary, as well as for the publication of the Laws of Zambia which has become urgent.
H. ExpeAenc in Previous Projects
1.55         The three year (1987-90) hiatus in relations between Zambia and the Bank, resulting in
the suspension of disbursements, adversely affected the implementation of practically all IDA-financed
projects in Zambia. Prior to that, implementation had been typically slow as a result of (among other
factors) project designs which exceeded the available implementation capacity, slow and cumbersome
procurement, and inadequate counterpart funding. Based on that experience, as well as IDA's recent
experience of financing a FILMUP project in Tanzania, the design of this project has been kept simple;
each participating agency actually prepared and will directly manage, its own component of the project,
assisted by only a coordinator; a procurement expert (to be paid out of a Project Preparation Facility) is
being recruited even before credit effectiveness to ensure that procurement needs are dealt with early and
in a professional manner; and the fiscal impact of the project, both immediate and long-term, is being
kept to a minimum.
11. THE PROJECT
A. Rtionale and Objectves
2.01         For many years the implementation of development programs has suffered serious delays
because of difficulties encountered in certain functions and activities which have an impact on many
sectors of the economy. For example, inefficient procurement practices have slowed down disbursements
and project implementation in several sectors. This project addresses difficulties being encountered in
the areas of accounting and auditing, procurement, legal drafting, the administration of justice, and
business information.  With Zambia's embarkation on wide-ranging economic and social reform,
including an ambitious privatization program, the need to get these services up to speed has become more
acute than ever.
2.02         Many previous efforts to improve the activities described in the preceding paragraph have
tended to address specific and narrow functions, often without reviewing all the key institutions involved
in a particular function or addressing the total needs of the key institutions. For example, efforts were
made to improve civil service accounting without regard to the capabilities of ZICA which is responsible
for certifying Zambian accountants. Efforts to improve procurement tended to focus on imports, but not
on local procurement; and legal drafting improvements focussed more on technical assistance to draft
specific pieces of legislation, and less on building up the drafting capabilities of the Ministry of Legal
Affairs on a permanent basis. The approach in this project is to identify institutions constituting a weak
link in a key process (e.g. procurement, legal drafting); looking comprehensively at institutional
capabilities and trying to improve the capacity of each institution as a going concern and on a permanent
basis, so that it can handle most of its f&nctions properly and not just one or two of them. This is an
ambitious objective, but one that is worth trying, despite the risks, to be discussed later. The emphasis
in each beneficiary institution is on training of staff to do the work, with the use of technical assistance
either avoided altogether, or held down to the barest minimum.



- 15-
2.03         The objectives of the project are to improve the flow of government business, improve
the implementation of development programs, and facilitate reform, by removing identified obstacles
through capacity building and institutional development in the areas of accounting and auditing, public
sector procurement, legal drafting, the administration of justice, and the provision of business
information. The project is expected to result in:
-     improved accounting and auditing standards;
-     a stronger ZICA, capable of better regulating the accountancy profession,
and of introducing at least a national accounting technicians qualification;
-     more trained accountants, particularly at the technician and intermediate
levels;
-     faster and more efficient procurement practices and standardized
documentation that meet international standards, and are acceptable to
most donors;
-     faster legal drafting;
-     a faster and more efficient Industrial Relations Court, and improved
administration of justice; and
-     better accessibility to company information for investors.
S. P,ojet Descripion
Generf Desaipton
2.04         Project components could be roughly classified into two categories: financial management
upgrading and legal management upgrading. The financial management upgrading component (about
US$4 million) would: (a) upgrade the general level of accounting and auditing services in Zambia by
providing technical support in introducing local qualifications and examinations to the premier
accountancy professional organization, the Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants (ZICA) (about US$1
million); (b) increase the output of intermediate level accounting personnel through the provision of
accountancy lecturers to the Copperbelt University, the Accountancy Training College (ATC), and the
National Import and Export Corporation (NIEC) School of Business Management (NSBM) (about US$1
million); and (c) improve national procurement performance by clarifying relationships between the
Zambia National Tender Board and line Ministries, and providing necessary training (about US$2
million).
2.05         The legal management upgrading component (about US$11 million) would: (a) build up
the legal drafting, prosecution and legal aid, and other capacities of the Ministry of Legal Affairs, the
Law Practice Institute (LPI) and the Institute of Legislative Drafting (ILD) through training, and
equipment (about US$3 million); (b) improve the administration of justice through the provision of
training, equipment and additional court space to the judiciary, including the Industrial Relations Court
(IRC) (about US$5.7 million); (c) print the revised Laws of Zambia (about US$2.0 million); and (d)



- 16-
improve the availability of information on corporate affairs to investors by providing training and
improved equipment to the Registrar of Companies (US$0.3 million).
2.06         All the training in the project is in-service in Zambia and overseas, and will benefit staff
already employed in implementing agencies. Appraisal of the training component included a training
needs assessment involving the identification of staff to be trained; their present jobs and qualifications;
additional skills needed to perform better; where, how, when, and for how long they will be trained; who
will replace them while they are in training; and what jobs they will return to afterwards. Except for one
or two special cases where positions will be either unnecessary after the project, or the salary for a
substantive position can easily be paid later by the already identified budget of the beneficiary institution,
all proposed technical assistance (only about US$1.8 million) is short-term, and is designed to assure the
sustainability of institutional performance after the project. The detailed training needs assessments are
in the project files. Terms of reference for major technical assistance positions are in Annexes 1 through
3 and Annex 9.
Dt ~d Description
(a} F ncial Management Upgrading
2.07         Project components and their costs are detailed in Table 1. The Financial Management
Upgrading Component would include improving national accounting and auditing standards by
strengthening the Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants (ZICA) with staff training and equipment;the
introduction by ZICA of a Zambian technician accountant level certificate; increasing the number of
middle level and technician accountants by providing support to the Accountancy Department of
Copperbelt University (CU) and limited support (staff training and equipment) to two technician level
institutions. This component would also aim to improve public sector procurement.
knprouving Accounffng and Auditing Standards
2.08         Improving national accounting and auditing standards would require that the project
strengthen ZICA, currently a very weak institution (Chapter I), by financing the training of ZICA staff
and the salaries for 5 years of a consultant Education Secretary to assist ZICA in the introduction and
implementation of a nationally-recognized Zambian technician level certificate in accountancy. The terms
of reference for the education secretary (Annex 3) would emphasize close liaison with the DTEVT in
developing nationally accepted and harmonized qualifications and would be agreed during negotiations.
ZICA is also hiring a Technical Director whose salary would be paid out of ZICA's own budget which
will be sufficient by the end of the project to cover the Education Secretary's salary as well.
2.09         The highest professional level of accountancy training in Zambia is adequately catered
for by the EC-financed Zambia College of Accountancy Studies (ZCAS). However, the technician level
is neither so well catered for, nor properly coordinated. With the planned introduction of a national
technician certificate (preceding paragraph) there is a need to assist key technician level institutions
destined to introduce the new syllabus and prepare students for the new examinations with training and
equipment. In addition, the structure of ZCAS (highest professional level training) assumes a steady flow
of university graduates and other intermediate level accountants to train. There is, however, a real
danger that the anticipated number of graduate inflow into ZCAS would not be forthcoming without some
support at that intermediate level. The project would therefore provide some training, equipment and
library support to strengthen the Accountancy Department of the Business Faculty of Copperbelt



- 17 -
University, as well as the Accountancy Training College (ATC), Chingola, and the NIEC School of
Business Management (NSBM), Ndola.
knprovin  Procurinent Standards and Practces
2.10         The second aspect of the financial management component seeks to improve public sector
procurement through: a diagnostic study designed to more accurately pinpoint the problem areas in the
present national procurement system;propose remedies, and lay out a plan for implementing the solutions;
clarification of the respective roles and relationships of the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) and
its Committees and ZNTB's clients; harmonization of procurement procedures and practices of numerous
local and donor agencies to evolve best practices and a set of standard procurement documents and
procedures acceptable to most of the agencies, training of key Zambian Government and parastatal staff
involved in procurement; and implementation of other recommendations of the diagnostic study. The
main project inputs would be studies, training, and related equipment. Government brought the terms
of reference (TOR) for the diagnostic study to negotiations, and Government and IDA agreed on the TOR
during negotiations. The diagnostic study would be completed and its findings discussed and agreed
between Government, ZNTB and IDA within twelve months following Credit effectiveness. This
agreement on the recommendations would be a pre-condition for the disbursement of any other funding
(i.e. other than for the study) for the ZNTB or procurement improvement component for the project.
(bh Legaf Management Upgrading
2.11         Legal Management Upgrading Component would consist of improvements to the
administration of justice, legal training and information, and improvement of the services provided by
the Registrar of Companies.
2.12         Project improvements to the administration of justice would involve the implementation
of a comprehensive training program for staff of the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) and its main
training and other agencies, as well as for the judiciary; the provision of improved physical working
conditions for the judiciary; the establishment of a legal data base system; and provision of training and
technical assistance to line Ministries heavily involved in legal work (e.g. Finance, Lands, Information,
and Commerce, Industry and Trade).
2.13         Inadequacy of professional skills, particularly in legal drafting, has been identified as the
greatest obstacle to efficiency in the legal services, and this is where the strongest project support would
be concentrated. Based on the recommendations of a consultant's study, the project would finance both
the on-the-job training needs of the professional staff of MOLA itself, as well as those of its key agencies
such as the Law Practice Institute, the Institute of Legal Drafting, the Law Development Commission.
The training program would also cover on-the-job training needs of the judiciary, including not only
judges and magistrates, but also paralegal staff (e.g. court reporters).
2.14         Poor accommodation, transportation and appalling document security conditions in the
law courts (Chapter I) have been identified as major constraints to the efficiency of the judiciary. The
project would alleviate these conditions by financing the creation of an Industrial Relations Court in Ndola
by renovating an existing building, and expanding that in Lusaka, by closing off-existing car ports to
form an additional court room, and provision of court and office equipment and transportation. The
project would also finance the conversion of two existing houses into the combined Law Practice Institute
(LPI) and Institute of Legal Drafting. This has become necessary because the LPI is being ejected from



- 18-
borrowed space it has been occupying at Evelyn Hone College. Government employment of a
supervising architect acceptable to IDA would be a pre-condition of disbursement for the building re-
design, conversion and rehabilitation described in this paragraph.
2.15         A third constraint to judiciary efficiency is the poor availability of legal information
(Chapter I) which may sometimes even jeopardize the direction of a decision due to lack of access to a
judicial precedent. The project would improve this situation firstly, through the publication of the Laws
of Zambia, which have been revised but could not be published due to lack of funds, and, secondly,
through the introduction of a legal data base system that would link MOLA with its various agencies as
well as with the judiciary. The component would link up existing computers and expand information
storage and retrieval in a way that would greatly improve the capacity and effectiveness of the entire
system. Another key aspect of the improvement of the legal information systems would consist of the
provision of training and equipment to improve the Registrar of Company's capacity to respond to the
information needs of the investing public.
2.16         The other legal system constraint which would be addressed through the project is the
tendency of line Ministries to delay the national legal drafting process by trying to do the drafting or
'layman's drafts' themselves, instead of instructing MOLA to do it, as laid down by approved
government procedure. The project would finance a training and technical assistance (TA) needs study,
as well as the training and TA themselves, of the key line Ministries involved (mainly Finance,
Agriculture, and Industry and Commerce) to ensure that they can implement the correct policy. The
project would also organize one or more workshops for the concerned staff of all Ministries to ensure
that the correct procedure is followed in the future.
(c) Pmoect Coordnaifon and M n
2.17         In addition to the activities described above, the project would finance the incremental
office costs and salaries of two project coordinators: one for the financial management component, and
the other for the legal management component; the costs of the project launch workshop; the independent
audit of project accounts; the architectural supervision of building renovations and rehabilitation;
procurement services for the project; and the incremental operating costs of project institutions (to be
financed by the government).
/dJ Stuge and Comput~' Softww
2.18         The project also includes provision for about US$300,000 to provide computer software
for all project-financed computers, and about US$100,000 to study and introduce possible improvements
to the accounting for open general license (OGL) funds at the Bank of Zambia.



- 19 -
Table 1
FILMUP PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
K Million                  US000                        S6 of Total
ITEM                                   Local  For-ban  Total       Local  Forelan  Total % Foroign Bas Cost
1 Financial ianagement URgradina
(a) Accountancy lmprowment
- ZICA                                   61       343      404      152       858    1010        85         6
- Accountancy Training InstIuAons        23       432      455       57      1081     1138       95         6
(b) Procurement Improwmont
- ZNTB                                  185       555      740      463      1387    1850        75        11
Sub-tobtl                               221      1SS0    1599      672      SS28    S9          21
11 LLeal Migemont UpDrrdina
(a) Admnistradon of Justce
- MOLA                                   77      1470    1547       193      3674    3867        95        23
- Law Pracfce Institufn                  88       206      294      221       514      735       70         4
- Indutial Relaton Court                 51       298      349      127       745      872       90         5
- JudIciary                              98      1860    1958       245      4651     4896        95       29
(b)Regidwr ofCompanies                     5       100      105       13       250      263        95         1
(c) Key Une Ministries                    22        89      111       55       222      277        80         2
Sub -tota                               S1J      I2=    mS8        AM      1 0056   120910                 U
Ill. Prolect Coordination & Maago-mont    218      128      346      544       320      864        37         5
IV. Incremental Recurront Costs          400         0      400    1000          0    1000          0         6
V. Studies & ComDutor Softwar              0       162      162        0       404      404       100         2
TOTAL BASE COST                        1i2       584S    U71    9M0        14106   17178                  in
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    19       215      234       47       537      584        92         3
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      117       634      751      292      1586    1878         84       11
TOTAL COSTS INCLUDING PHYSICAL          1m S8              lfl      AM 1h 222   19SS8
AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES



- 20 -
C. Cost Es1imates
2.19         The project is estimated to cost about US$19.6 million (Table 1) of which about US$16.2
million (83%) would be in foreign exchange. These costs include physical contingencies of US$0.6
million (3% of base costs) calculated on the civil works and hardware components only, and price
contingencies of US$1.9 million (116% of base costs). The latter have been calculated by converting all
costs Oocal and foreign) to US$ as of the appraisal date, and adjusting total costs at the estimated
international inflation rate from that date. Base costs have been estimated as of March 31, 1993. The
first project year is assumed to run from January 1 to December 31, 1994, and the completion date is
expected to be December 31, 1998. The costs exclude all taxes and duties from which the government
project beneficiaries are exempt. Project costs are summarized in Table 1, shown year by year in Annex
4, where they are also further detailed (showing quantities, unit cost, etc.). and in the Project Files.
D. Financing
2.20         Proposed project financing is summarized in Table 2 below:
Table 2
Project Flnanding Plan
(US$'000)
tem                               112Q~~~~~~~~~~M    Governunent  Total
Financial Management Upgrading               4,520           110         4,630
Legal Management Upgrading                  12,320           316        12,636
Project Coordination and Management            756           212           968
Incremental Operating Costs                      0         1,000         1,000
Studies                                        404             Q          404
TOTAL                                       18.            Lo           19,638
Percentages                                   92%            8%          100%
2.21         The project would be financed as to US$18 million (92%) by IDA and US$1.6 million
(8%) by Government. Government financing would pay for incremental operating costs and proportions
of costs of goods and civil works procured locally. IDA financing would pay for all project costs not
covered by Government. IDA funds would be a credit to the Government of Zambia on standard IDA
terms. All project financing (IDA and Government) would be passed on to beneficiary project institutions
as grants from the Government of Zambia to those institutions.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ---  -_  -



- 21-
E. Pt curnent
2.22         Table 3 summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed methods
of procurement. Disbursement and implementation schedules, allowing sufficient time for various
procurement steps, are given in Annexes 5 and 6 respectively.
Smmarv of dEg1    Pcummet Angen
(USSmillion including contingenciis)
Proiect Elemnents                                     Procuaent NMfihods
La       La           ob       NE I/       TOW
1. CrUL WRES                            0        0.6          0          0         0.6
(0.5)                            (0.5)
2.                                     5.7       0.9         0.2          -         6.8
2.1 Vehideequipt & funitre           (5.5)      (0-9)      (0.2)                  (6.6)
2.2 Larooks&pnnting                    4.7       0.1          0                     4.8
(4.7)    (0.1)                              (4.8)
3. lNSIITANCJES
3. fT                                   0          0         3.6          0         3.6
3.2 Tochnical Assistance & Studies      0          0         i.8          0         1
(1.8)                 (1.8)
4.1 Prject  rdination & Studies         0          0         0.9          0         0.9
4.2lncremental Operting Costs           0          0       (07)         1.1         1
(--)
TOTAL COSTS                           10.4       1.6         6.5        1.1        19.6
TOTAL Financed by the 1DA Credit     (10.2)     (1.5)      (6.3)        (-)      (18.0)
1/ NIF = Not IDA-Fced.
2.23         The limited civil works included under the project are for expansion of the Industrial
Relations Court (IRC) and rehabilitation of the Law Practice Institute, together estimated at US$0.56
million equivalent. Construction is expected to be completed in Year 2, the individual contracts are
small and scattered (with Ndola more than 300 km. from Lusaka) The contracts are therefore too small
to attract international bidding. Accordingly, the contracts will consist of three lots: the IRC in Lusaka
(US$0.03 million equivalent), the IRC in Ndola (US$0.08 million equivalent), and the Law Practice
Institute in Lusaka (US$0.45 million). Each will be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA. These would include local advertisement, clearly stated evaluation criteria,
public bid opening, award to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, and foreign bidders, if interested,
would not be precluded from participation. Agreement to this was obtained at negotiations.



- 22 -
2.24         Goods financed under the project would include vehicles, furniture, computers, printing
of the Laws of Zambia, library books and equipment, office equipment and supplies, for a total value of
about US$11.6 million equivalent including contingencies. Most of the goods would be procured in
Project Years 1 and 2. They would be bulked wherever feasible, and would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, issued in May 1992. Where ICB procedures are used, a preferential
margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing
goods would be given to domestic manufacturers in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts
for goods procured through ICB would total US$10.4 million, representing more than 90% of the total
value of goods financed by IDA.
2.25         Other contracts for the purchase of urgently needed items estimated to cost less than
US$250,000 each, for which there is not enough time to group into packages of at least US$250,000, and
which are not likely to attract foreign bidders, would be awarded through local competitive bidding
(LCB), in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, provided that the aggregate amount of such
procurement does not exceed US$1.0 million (equivalent to 9% of the total value of goods financed by
IDA).
2.26         The remaining 5% of the total value of goods, mainly office supplies, journals and paper
products, which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent each, would be
procured on the basis of prudent international and/or local shopping based on price quotations obtained
from at least three reliable suppliers to ensure competitive prices, provided that the aggregate amount of
such procurement does not exceed US$0.2 million equivalent.
2.27         Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$5.4 million equivalent would be contracted
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants issued in August 1981. The nature
of these consulting services would be mostly for training activities and technical assistance, but they also
include architectural services for the design and supervision of the construction program, and for
procurement services. The cost estimates for consultancies are net of taxes, and are mostly either short-
term, or for training services. Terms of reference for major consultant services and details of training
and other consultancies (including description of services and necessary qualifications) are given in
Annexes 1 to 3 and Annex 9.
2.28         Procurement status of ongoing projects in Zambia. The disbursement lag under certain
ongoing IDA-funded projects is partly the result of poor procurement practices, e.g. poor planning and
slow progress in civil works due to inadequate supervision, and the Government's cumbersome
procurement procedures. The capacity of project units to plan and closely supervise IDA-financed
procurement has been also a major constraint to the timely execution of project activities. These issues
are all being addressed through the Procurement Improvement Component of this project.
2.29         A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was last prepared for Zambia in
1984. This long delay, and the fact that the 1984 report was based on draft legislation, prompted the
inclusion of a diagnostic study as the first step in the Procurement Improvement Component of this
project.  By the end of the project, Zambia should have standard procurement procedures and
documentation of an international standard acceptable to most of its major donors and financiers. This
may or may not require new enabling legislation to become effective.



- 23-
2.30         All contracts for works and goods above a threshold of US$250,000 equivalent each
would be subject to IDA's prior review. For contracts for consultant services, the threshold for IDA's
prior review would be $100,000. All other awarded procurements would be subject to post-review.
2.31         During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the proper monitoring of the
procurement, use of the Bank's standard bidding documents, as well as the use of standard bidding
documents in Zambia to be developed by this project. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that
Government would apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above. The appointment
of a procurement officer acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
F. Disbursement
2.32         IDA funds would be disbursed as indicated in the table below. Govermment would
finance project incremental costs (building and equipment maintenance, incremental rent for staff housing,
fuel, etc.), except the operating costs of project coordinators' offices. Government financing also
includes Government shares of any civil works, goods or printing procured locally.
US$ Million     Proposed Dls. %
(a) Civil Works                 0.50         100% of foreign and 85% of local costs
(b) Training                    3.42         100%
(c) Technical Assistance & Studies   1.71    100%
Cd) Library Books and Printing  4.56         100%
{e)  Vehicles & Equipment & Furniture 6.18   100% of foreign and 95% of local costs
Cf)  Project Coordination & Mangt.   0.66    100%
Cg) Refunding of PPF            0.25
(h) Unallocated                 0.72
Total                      L8.02
2.33     Disbursements for all IDA-financed expenditures would be against full documentation, except
for the operating costs of the project coordinators' offices and orders with values below US$20,000 (or
its equivalent in local currency), which would be based on statements of expenditure. Supporting
documents for statements of expenditure should be retained by the borrower for IDA review during
project supervision. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would abide by the
disbursement procedures described in this and the preceding paragraph.
2.34     The project activities and commitments would be undertaken within five years, but
disbursements are expected to trail into the sixth year, according to the following schedule, which is
detailed in Annex 6).
Estimated IDA Disbursements in US$ Tbousands
Ftscal Year        122    199    12=            12 2   12
Annual        2,580     8,669    2,028     1,704     1,636     1,383
Cumulative    2,580    11,249   13,277    14,981    16,617    18,000



- 24-
2.35         The rate of disbursement indicated in the above paragraph is quite conservative, especially
in project year 1, to allow for the inexperience and learning curve of project coordinators and others who
would be involved in the procurement and disbursement processes.
2.36         To ensure that funds for the project would be readily available when needed, and to
reduce the number of disbursement claims to be processed, two special accounts in US$ would be opened
by the Bank of Zambia in the name of the Project in an off-shore commercial bank, one for the financial
management component and its coordinator at ZICA (handling all the financial management-related
components, and their coordination), and the other for the legal management component and its
coordinator at MOLA. Upon credit effectiveness, US$0.5 million would be deposited by IDA in each
of these accounts, to pay for IDA-financed expenditures. Further deposits to replenish the Special
Account would be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documentation.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the borrower would implement the rules described in this
paragraph for the opening and operation of the special accounts.
G. Accounts and Audit
2.37         The accounting and auditing practices of all project beneficiaries were thoroughly checked
during appraisal, and the appraisal mission was satisfied that the beneficiaries can provide the prompt and
accurate information necessary to prepare and audit the consolidated annual accounts described below.
2.38         The Financial Component Coordinator (FCC) would maintain records adequate to account
for all project funds. These records would take the form of (i) a Cash Book to record all funds received
and paid out in respect of the project; (ii) a Special Account Cash Book to record Special Account
transactions; (iii) an Order Book to record all orders placed on behalf of the project; (iv) a Bills Payable
Book to record all unpaid charges; (v) a Bills Receivable Book to record any credits received by the
project; (vi) Bank Statements for all project bank accounts (including the Special Accounts); (vii) monthly
Bank Reconciliation Statements for all project bank accounts; and (viii) receipts, invoices, and similar
evidence of transactions. All project implementation transactions (including procurement orders,
disbursements, receipts, payments, etc.) would pass through the coordinators for recording purposes
before reaching their destinations, even though coordinators have no executive power for project
implementation, except for their office budgets, the audit fee and the project launch workshop. All
project budgetary and accounting returns (including those handled by the LCC) would end up with the
Financial Component Co-ordinator (FCC) for consolidation and transmission to IDA. The FCC would
be the project accountant, and, for this reason, must be a professionally qualified accountant. On
December 31 each year, the Financial Component Coordinator (FCC) would prepare: (i) a Receipts and
Payments Account; (ii) a list of Unpaid Commitments; and (iii) a list of Credits Not Yet Received. These
three consolidated documents are the 'annual accounts" to be submitted to IDA annually.
2.39         The annual accounts referred to in the above paragraph, and the Special Accounts and
Statements of Expenditures referred to in paras 2.33 and 2.36 respectively would be audited annually in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing by an auditor acceptable to IDA. The Receipts and
Payments Account, list of Unpaid Commitments, list of Credits No Yet Received, Special Accounts and
Statements of Expenditures, together with the auditor's report on each of them, would be submitted to
IDA within nine months following the end of each project year. One audit report giving the auditor's



- 25-
opinion on each of the documents listed in this paragraph will suffice. Project years would run from
January 1 to December 31.
2.40         Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the borrower would implement the
provisions described in paras 2.38 and 2.39 above with regard to project accounting and auditing.
Assurances were also obtained that Government would appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
within 30 days following credit effectiveness.



- 26-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Orgarn&gon and Management
3.01         No new institution would be created under this project. Instead, project beneficiaries
would apply the enhanced human and material resources supplied by the project in the improvement of
the quality of their services. In view of the large number of beneficiaries involved, and to facilitate
project implementation and supervision, a Financial Component Coordinator (FCC) to be located in and
answerable to ZICA would coordinate and report on the implementation of all accounting and
procurement components, including assistance to financial training institutions, while a Legal Component
Coordinator (LCC) to be located in MOLA and answerable to the Minister, would similarly co-ordinate
and report on the implementation of all components concerned with the upgrading of the legal framework,
the administration of justice, legal training, and business information. A Procurement Officer, to be
financed by the project and located in ZNTB, would assist the two coordinators with all procurements.
3.02         Responsibilities for project implementation and coordination may be summarized as
follows:
ResRonsible
Activilv                                        Institution                  Coordinator
(a) Accountin, InRrovements
-Improving Accounting
and auditing standards                      ZICA                        FCC
-Introducing new technician
level examination                           ZICA                        FCC
-Training of middle and                      CBU, NSBM, AND              FCC
technician level accountants                ATC
(b) Procurement ImRrovemnents
-Diagnostic Study                            ZNTB                        FCC
-Clarification of roles                      ZNTB                        FCC
-Harmonization of procurement
& standardization of documentation          ZNTB                        FCC
-System review and workshop                  ZNTB                        FCC
-Training                                    ZNTB                        FCC
(c) Administration of Justice
- Improvement of MOLA services               MOLA                        LCC
(training equipment, etc.)
- Rehabilitation of LPI                      LPItMOLA                    LCC
- Expansion of IRC                           IRC/MOLA                    LCC
- Judiciary Support                          Judiciary                   LCC
- Implemtation of
Legal Data Base                             MOLA                        LCC
- Line Ministries Training
Workshop and T/A                            MOLA                        LCC
(d)   yent of Investor Infornmation             Registrar of Companies      LCC



- 27-
3.03         Within the overall project coordination responsibilities described in paragraph 3.01 above,
each beneficiary institution would be responsible for implementing its own project components in
accordance with procurement and disbursement guidelines described in Chapter H. However, all project
transactions and documents would pass through the coordinators, and all budgetary and accounting returns
would end up with the FCC for consolidation and transmission to IDA. The FCC would, therefore,
effectively operate as the project accountant (Chapter II).
3.04         The proposed LCC with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA participated in
Credit negotiations.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the two project coordinators
acceptable to IDA would:
(a)    be appointed before credit effectiveness, with the appointment
being a condition of that effectiveness;
(b)   be retained in their posts until project completion, and that if
they have to leave before project completion, Government would
replace them promptly with persons whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA; and
(c)   participate in the first available procurement course at ESAMI
following their appointment.
B. Monitoin. Evaluaton and Reportg
3.05         On the borrower's side the project would be monitored by the two project coordinators.
They would send to IDA not later than October 31 of each fiscal year a budget of the amount of project
work (i.e. in terms of physical implementation), procurement and disbursements expected during the
project year. On December 31 and June 30 each year, they would send to IDA, Progress Reports
comparing the actual with budgeted physical implementation, procurement and disbursements.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations regarding these budgeting and progress reporting arrangements.
A Project Supervision Plan is in Annex 7. Project monitorable indicators are in Annex 10.
3.06         A Project Launch Workshop would be held in Zambia either shortly before, or shortly
after, credit effectiveness, and financed from the project, to acquaint staff of beneficiary institutions and
IDA with problems likely to be encountered during project implementation, and work out possible
solutions. In addition, IDA would endeavor to field project supervision missions every six months during
the project period.
C. AMk-twm Review
3.07         Approximately two and a half years following credit effectiveness there would be a formal
mid-term review of the project mounted jointly by Government and IDA to assess, not only the progress



- 28 -
of implementation, but also the continued relevance of the project's assumptions and provisions for the
rest of the project period. The review would cover and report progress achieved so far in all the project
objectives, including, for example, ZICA's success in harmonizing accountancy qualifications, the number
of accountants graduating from CBU, ATC and NSBM; the number of judges trained, etc. The review,
expected to take place between June and December 1996, would produce an 'Aide Memoire" recording
its conclusions and recommending any action it considers necessary in order to improve project
implementation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would organize he
mid-term review as described in this paragraph.
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABIUTY
A. Benefits
4.01         Although the institution building nature of the project makes most of its benefits hard to
quantify, a few can be quantified, and would be carefully monitored during the project. For example,
the examination pass rate of each beneficiary training institution, and the average delay in trying cases
at the Industrial Court would be recorded during the first supervision mission and compared with pass
rates and court waiting periods achieved each year through the life of the project. Similarly, the number
of legal draftsmen trained through the project would be monitored.
4.02         In addition to the quantitative benefits described in the preceding paragraph, every
progress report and every supervision mission report would also endeavor to present an assessment of
qualitative improvements observed in the performance of each of the project beneficiary agencies.
Possible examples include feedback on procurement performance from other sectors currently
experiencing procurement difficulties (see next para. )
B. knpct on the Economic Reform Pmgram and the Envkonment
4.03         The improvements expected to result from this project are a pre-requisite for the
realization of many of the benefits anticipated from Zambia's economic reform program, as well as for
the successful implementation of projects in Zambia. For example, revision of the Companies Ordinance
is a pre-requisite for the success of the parastatal reform and privatization program. Private investment
also requires a reliable and transparent legal framework, good accounting and auditing systems and easy
availability of information from the Registrar of companies. To a large extent, therefore, this project
provides the practical underpinnings for the policy changes being introduced under Zambia's structural
adjustment program. In addition, the procurement and disbursement delays and difficulties being
experienced by many projects furnished the impetus for the inclusion in this project of efforts to improve
the procurement process.
4.04         Envionmental Aspects. This capacity building project raises no environmental issues.
The limited construction involves improvements to existing buildings to be carried out under existing
building codes which are quite strict and environmentally sound.



- 29 -
C. S
4.05         The project benefits are easily sustainable for several reasons. As noted in Chapter m,
no new institution is to be created under the project. Existing agencies would basically carry on with
their normal functions. They are not even being required to carry on any major activity in which they
are not already engaged. However, they would be receiving training, and limited technical assistance
designed to improve their efficiency. Most of the project benefits (e.g., improved accounting and
procurement performance) would be realized during project implementation, while others (e.g. trained
personnel) would outlive the project. Neither these, nor any other aspects of the project are expected to
result in significant incremental operating costs that could jeopardize sustainability. In addition, most
project institutions are engaged in cost recovery programs which would be intensified and monitored
during the project.
D. Risks and Unwtaintds
4.06         Two risks of the project are the transfer to other duties of the dedicated civil servants who
prepared it, and the inability of Government to finance its share of project costs. Specific assurances
were obtained from Government regarding continuity of project coordinators. It would also be a
condition of Credit effectiveness that Govermment would open a Project Account, pay into that account
an agreed local currency amount for the project, and replenish the account quarterly. In addition, the
poor compensation in the civil service presents a risk to the motivation and retention of good staff.
However, willingness to perform well under existing conditions has been a criterion for selection of
project beneficiaries. Besides, experience elsewhere has confirmed that the training and better resources
to be provided under this project represent a non-monetary and indirect benefit much appreciated by
participants. The question of civil service remuneration is likely to be addressed through a Public Sector
Management Reform Project now under preparation.
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
Conditons of Ciedi Effecdveness
5.01         The appointment of the two project coordinators (FCC and LCC) and a procurement
officer, all acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (paras. 2.31 and 3.04), and
so would the opening of a project account in local currency by the Government (para. 4.06).
Conditins of Dkburswnmwt
5.02         (a)    The appointment of a supervising architect satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition of disbursement for the building redesign and rehabilitation component
(para. 2.14).



- 30 -
(b)    Government and IDA agreement on the findings of the procurement diagnostic
study would be a pre-condition for the disbursement of the rest of the
procurement/ZNTB component of the project (para. 2.10).
OW A               and Condions
5.03         Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would:
(a)   complete the procurement diagnostic study within 12 months following credit
effectiveness (para. 2.10);
(b)   ensure that the two project coordinators undergo a procurement course at ESAMI
within 12 months following credit effectiveness and replace them promptly with
persons acceptable to IDA, if they leave before project completion (para. 3.04);
(c)   abide by the procurement and disbursement procedures described in Chapter II
including use of Bank standard bidding documents (paras. 2.30 and 2.31);
(d)   implement the accounting and auditing procedures described in paras. 2.38 and
2.39);
(e)   appoint an auditor acceptable to IDA  within 30 days following credit
effectiveness (para. 2.40);
(f)   open two special accounts for the project as described in paragraph 2.36;
(g)   send annual budgets and work programs to IDA not later than October 31 each
year and compare them with actual performance in each progress report on
December 31, and June 30 each year (para. 3.05); and
(h)   organize a mid-term review with IDA participation two and a half years after
Credit effectiveness (para.3.07).
5.04         Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of SDR12.8 million (equivalent to US$18.0 million) to the Government of Zambia on standard IDA terms
with 40-years maturity.



-31 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
FINANCIAL COMPONENT COORDINATOR
TERMS OF REFERENCE
General
1.     Under the Financial and Legal Management Upgrading (FILMUP) Project, each beneficiaqy
institution implements its project component independently of the others. It is therefore primarily the duty
of the chief executive officer of each institution to ensure that his or her institution's project component is
implerented in accordance with Development Credit Agreement, and in the spirit of the project a
described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Duties of the Financial Component Coordinator
2.     The Financial Component Coordinator (FCC) overees and facilitates the implementation of all
project activities dealing with the improvement of accountancy and auditing standards, accountancy
trining institutions, and the improvement of procurement standards, documentation, and practices. In
this connection, the FCC needs to maintain frequent contacts with the chief executives and other staff
involved in project implementation in the Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants (ZICA), the
Copperbelt University (CBU), the Accountancy Training Colege (ATC) Chingola, the National Import
and Export Corporation (NIEC) School of Business Management (NSBM) in Ndola, the Zambia National
Tender Board (ZNTB), the World Bank, as well as other Govemment and non-Government agencies
whose activities may be directly or indirectly conducive to the smooth implementation of the accountancy
and procurement improvement components of the FILMUP project.
3.     The FCC will also act as the accountant for the FILMUP project. He or she will prepare and
send to the World Bank the consolidated project budgets before the start, and the consolidated project
accounts at the end, of each fiscal. The information needed to prepare the legal component sections of the
annual budgets and accounts will be provided to the FCC by the Legal Component Coordinator (LCC) in
the Ministry of Legal Affairs. The FCC will also be responsible for arranging for the audit of the project
accounts by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. He or she will manage and be a signatory to the
Special Account to be established to facilitate the implementation of the financial component of the
project, as well as for managing the budget for his or her office.
4.     The FCC is responsible for advising and assisting the institutions mentioned in parrph 2 above
in all project matters connected with procurement, and disbursement, and will act as their primary channel
for forwarding related documents to IDA and advising the institutions on actions taken by IDA on such
documents. He or she will be responsible for preparing with the assistance of the Procurement Specialist
all bidding documents, procurement contracts for goods and services, and for supervising tendeing and
other procurement procedures of the institutions listed in paragraph 2.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Qualifications
5.     The FCC should be a qualified accountant capable of preparing the consolidated project accounts,
selecting a qualified independent auditor, and getting the accounts audited in a timely fashion. He or she
must also have sufficient accountancy knowledge to understand, advise and assist ZICA and the
accountancy training institutions in the implementation of their project components. In addition, the FCC
should have sufficient acquaintance with procurement issues to be able to oversee and coordinate the
implemetation of the procurement (ZNTB) component of the project.
6.     For the reasons stated in the proceding paragraph, the FCC should hold an internationally-
recognized accountancy professional qualification, such as that of Associate of Chartered Association of
Certified Accountants (ACCA), or of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) or its
equivalent.  Practical experience of preparing technical specifications and bidding documents or
supervising procurements would be an added advantage.



- 33 -
Annex 2
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
LEGAL COMPONENT COORDINATOR
TERMS OF REFERENCE
General
1.     Under the Financid and Legal Management Upgrading (FILMUP) project, each beneficiary
institution implements its project component independently of the others. It is therefore primarily the duty
of the chief executive officer of each institution to ensure that his or her institution's project component is
implemented in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement, and in the spirit of the project as
described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Duties
2.     The Legal Component Coordinator (LCC) oversees and facilitates the implementation of all project
activities dealing with the improvement of legal services and legal training. In this connection, the LCC
needs to maintain frequent contacts with the chief executives and other staff involved in project
implementation in the Ministry of Legal Affairs and its agencies, including the Attorney-General's
Chambers, the Judiciary, the Industrial Relations Court, the Law Practice Institute, and the proposed
Institute for Legal drafting, as well as with he Registrar of Companies, and other government and non-
government agencies whose activities may be directly or indirectly conducive to the smooth implementation
of the legal services and training improvement component of the FILMUP project.
3.     The LCC is responsible for advising and assisting the institutions mentioned in paragraph 2 above
in all project matters, and particularly those connected with procurement and disbursement, and will act as
their primary channel for forwarding procurement documents and disbursement requests to IDA and
advising the institutions on actions taken by IDA on such documents. He or she will be responsible for
preparing with the assistance of the Procurement Specialist all bidding documents, procurement contracts for
goods or consultants, and supervising tendering and other procurement procedures of the institutions listed
in paragraph 2.
4.     The LCC wili also prepare the annual budget and semi-annual report for the legal component, and
supply the Financial Component Coordinator (FCC) with adequate and timely financial information to
enable the FCC to prepare the consolidated annual accounts for the project as a whole. He or she will
manage and be a signatory to the Special Account to be established to facilitate the implementation of the
legal component of the project, as well as for managing the bWget for his or her office.
Qualifications
5.     The LCC should be a legal practitioner qualified to practise as an advocate in Zambia. He or she
should also have had some training and experience of legal drafting, and be fully conversant with the
activities of the Ministry of Legal Affairs and its agencies. Experience as a teacher or trainer would be an
added advantage; so would experience of preparing technical specifications, bidding documents, and
contracts for goods and services, or supervision of procurement.



- 34 -                                Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE EDUCATION SECRETARY
Background
1.     The Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants (ZICA) was established by the
Accountants' Act 1982 and the Accountants' (Qualifications for Registration) Regulations Act
1984. Since 1985, ZICA has been operating a Joint Scheme of Examinations with the UK
Chartered Association of Certified Accountants (ACCA). Students sit UK examination papers
and on completion are eligible to apply for membership of both ZICA and ACCA.
2      ZICA does not provide any examinations for accountants, although there is provision
under the Accountants Act for this. Students wishing to gain a technician qualification can study
for one of a number of accounting technician diplomas offered in Zambia. Currently students
can choose from at least four qualifications: Zambia Diploma In Accounting (ZDA) (administered
by the govemment Department of Technical Education and Vocational Tralning [DTEVTJ ); the
Accounting Technician Diploma (ATD) or the State Auditots Diploma (offered at the National
Institute of Public Administration); the Diploma in Financial Administration; and the UK
Association of Accounting Technicians examinations. In addition, for bookkeepers there is the
Certificate in Accounting and Business Studies (CABS).
3.    The council of ZICA has decided that it wishes to localize its professional examinations
so that students can be examined on Zambia taxation, law, and accounting and auditing
standards. The council has also decided that it wishes to rationalize the existing accounting
technician examinations in the country, and to Introduce its own accounting technician
examination, which would provide a firm foundation for the professional examinations.
The Assignment
4.     ZICA has three main goals requiring the inputs of a consultant on accountancy
education, namely:
-   The Introduction of nationally recognized and accepted accountancy qualifications
and examinations at both the technician and the fully professional levels;
-   a decision as to where exactly the existing plethora of qualifications In the country
(particularly at the technician level, and including the ZDA and others) will fit into
the new scheme; and
-   the establishment of a permanent membership and accreditation committee for the
continuous review of Zambian and overseas qualifications for exemption from ZICA
examinations.
5.    Currently, ZICA does not have the staffing or expertise to achieve the three goals In the
preceding paragraph. It Is, therefore, seeking to recruit a consultant Education Secretary to
assist t In doing so.
6.    The Education Secretary is expected to carry out the assignment In two stages: Stage I
Planning; Stage II Implementation. The Planning stage, expected to be completed In less
than 12 months, consists of the preparation of a detailed, phased, and sustainable action plan for



- 35 -                              AMU3
Page 2 of3
achieving the three goals descibed in paragraph 4 above and the adoption of that action plan by
the Council of ZICA. Preparation of the plan is likely to require visits to other countries such as
Tanzania, Kenya and South Africa which have successfully Introduced their own accountancy
examinations, and may also involve consuitancy visits to Zambia by experts from those
countries. To assure its sustainability, the plan should be based on what Is realizable from
ZICA's own projected resources, and should not be based on the assumption of continued
foreign support beyond the 5-year FILMUP project. Preparation of the plan Is also likely to
involve detailed and wide-ranging discussions with DTEVT, Copperbeit University, Zambia
College of Accountancy Studies, the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants, London,
and Zambian Institutions offering tuition and/or examinations in accountancy, as well as with
employers, Including Govemment Ministries, parastatal bodies, private companies, and
accounting firms.
7.    The action plan should indicate, with respect to each phase or step:
- the resources needed;
- the estimated cost, and-sources of financing; and
- a target date for completion of that phase.
8.    The ImplementatIon stage will start as soon as the action plan is officially adopted by
the Council of ZICA. The phasing of Implementation should be designed so as to ensure that
each step is consolidated before ZICA moves on to the next phase. Thus, decisions regarding
technicians level qualifications and examinations should be Implemented and consolidated,
before moving on to professional level qualifications and examinations. This should be the case
even If ZICA ultimately decides not to set its own technicians level examination but to grart
various degrees of recognition to existing qualifications at that level.
9.    The preservation of the credibility and International recognition of ZICA qualifications
should also be an Important criterion In both the planning and the implementation stages. This is
another reason for a cautious, step-by-step approach. Fore example, serious consideration
should be to first localizing only taxation and law examinations at both technician and
professional levels, and carrying this on for several years while ZICA gains experience, before
localizing all the other examinations. Similarly, maintaining some links with an intemationally
recognized accountancy body for some years would help to preserve credibility and win
intemational recognition of ZICA qualifications.
10.   For those examinations which ZICA decides to set, the education secretary would, in
addition to the consultations described in paragraph 6 above:
-     develop a syllabus and pilot examination papers;
-     recruit suitably qualified examiners, assessors, coordinators, and
markers, and establish a link with a suitable overseas accountancy body to
monitor the quality    of the examination papers and marking; and
-     administer the examinations.
Quaiiflcations Required
*   membership of ZICA;
*   at least five years post qualifying experience;



- 36 -                               Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
*   excellent written and oral skills;
*   fluency In English;
* experience In the training of accountants and In examination processes and
practices would be an advantage.
Reporting:
The education secretary will report to the Executive Secretary of ZICA and will prepare a
quartely progress report for him and IDA.
Duty Station
Lusaka, Zambia
Duration of Assignment
Initially for a period of one year, with provision for extension based on project implementation
status.



- 37 -
Page 1 of 51
ZANIA
FiLMUP PiROJECT
ITS                                   YEAR I  YEAR I          ER  S   YEAR 4    YEAiRS TOTAL S FOFIEON
I Rnancial Lamomwnt Umredina
(a) Accountancy Improvement
- ZICA                                  336       157       176      1iS7      11      1010       65
- AocountancyTraining lnstions          841       136       73        44        44    1156        95
(b) Procurement Improvement
- ZNTB                                                                                            75 R  Sl 2  1   21
Sub-totbl             170                          Z                                  -          25
11 Lnai M amenw Upradina
(a) Adminletatlon d Judice
- MOLA                                 5241       235      151       1n        102    5667        95
- Law Pradce Inutitute                  655        20       20        20        20      735       70
- Industril Reations Court              60         60       s0        74        S0      672       90
- Judiciary                            2                                       la                 a 4
8ub-Total                              7zS                                      I   10ER70
(b) Regiwr d dCompanl.s                  126        76        61        0         0      265       95
(c) Key Une Minidue                      17r4       SS       a         2Q        20      2         S0
Sub-toal                                mg        in        AL        M         2.1    MK
Ill, Prolect CoordirAion & Man   nt      S44       161       119      121       119      664       37
IV Inoromentol Rountet Code              200       200       200      200       200    1000        50
V. Studies a Comutr Softww               40          2         2        2         Q2     A         100
TOTAL BASE COST                       13         SW                 JM         M     17117
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   515        26        22       10        15      564       92
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       m         2       am        an        S79    107         84
TOTAL COSTS INCLUDING PHYSICAL           r 2i               flU 19
AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES



ANNEX 4
Pae 2 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
ZDA
uss8oos
YOW I    Y9e 2  Y.r 3    YW4    Year 5   Total            S Fsrftn
TrainIg                                    0o       30      50        30        30      200        95
T.chrlodAs.Mtnc                          124       124     124       124       124      620        s0
EqL*...tA jAumds.                        128         1       0         1         0     130        100
Vh                                        2a a               2         I        27       so        80
TOtal                                              laAin             la 1  Qi1



- 39 -
ANNEX41
ZAMBIA                            Page 3 o 51
FILMUP PROJECT
ZICA
TRAINING
(US$000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES                           YEAR I      YEAR 2           YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5    TOTAL
SHORT TERM
Management Training for
Prof"lonal Staff                                   20          20        20          20           20       100
Education Saotawy,
Attachment to Ovwseas Proessional
Accounting Body(s)                                  20                    20                                 40
Adminlstrathw Assistant.
Attachmert to ACCA to Review
Student & Examination Procedures                    10                                                       10
In-Country Secretaril &
Cnomputer Tralrdng                                  10          10        10           10          10        150
TOTAL                                                           1I        2g           IQ         AV        29Q



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA                 Pag 4 d 51
FILMUP PROJECT
ZICA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(U8S000)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    YEAR I    YEAR2  YEAR B      YEAR 4    YEAR 5 TAL
SHORT TERM
Ebletto As" wh Eamhnadn                    100       100      100        100       100     500
S".lng, Moderaon and Mwking
Education Saetay                            24       2X        24        24         24    1i2
TOTAL                                      in                           JJ{  i  in  in



*~~~~~      I         3#
ii~~~~~~~~~~d
dol 9
I                   ml~~~~~~~~-
ii~~~~~~~~~~~d
dl
'  ii  lX iia 
I                   m~~~~~~~~~l
N    N  e  *     N    8   -; 
I N  _~ _ _  101
X              - -    ml
M. Iatsl



- 42 -
ZAMBA                                               ANNI 4
FILMUW PROJECT                                           page a of el
ZICA
VEMICLES
(U8'WOO)
En                                                                                                  WA
Cu                    1   25  25                                                 1   25  25    2   25  50
Ma _mnu                         2             2              2              2              2             10
TOTAL                 I        27             2              2              2             I              U



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
ACCOUNTANCY TRAINING IN8TITTONS
(US$000)
YEAR I   YEAR 2  YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5   TOTAL % FOREIGN
Coppeibelt Univmlty                 302         60       57         28        28      475         95
A.T.C., Chngola                      298        30        0         0          0      328         95
NIEC School of Busines
Manment                             241        46       16         16        1e      335         95
TOTAL                               El         ti zS                          If    jI4



-44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
Copperbeit Univerity
US.0O0
YEAR I    YEAR 2  YER         YEAR 4   YEARs    TOTAL % FORIEGN
_mftr*v                               10         a        5         0          0       23         10
Equimnt                              190         0        0         0          0      190        100
Thni@uw AusIU.                        52        52       52         28        28      212        100
UbLaybooks                            50         Q        Q0                   0       50        100
TOTAL                               S02         QQ       IZ        2?         2        m         an



-45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
COPPERBELT UNIVERSITY
TRAINING
(US$'000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES              YEAR 1   YEAR 2  YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR 5   TOTAL
LONG TERM
Lecturer                               5                                                  5
CIMA stage 3 and 4
Zambia Centre fbr Accounting
Studis
Lecturer                               5        2.7                                      7.7
ACCA Level 2 and 3
Zarmbia Centre for Accounting
St-die
Lecturer                                          5                                       S
CIMA Stages 3 and 4
Zambia Centre for Accounting
Studies
Lecturer
CIMA Stage 3 and 4
Zambia Centre for Accounting
Studies                                                   5                              5
TOTAL                                 1z2Z



-46-
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
COPPERBELT UNIVERSITY
EOUIPMENT
(USW'000)
am                    NmI             TmN                                                            mA
mm        t Dm  mm       ar mA mm  ur  im  mm              aror noor  mm L imm
PC                 30    5  150                                                                   30    5  150
Printer(DotMatr    8   1.9 15.2                                                                    8   1.9 15.2
Printbr (Lase)     2    2   4                                                                      2    2   4
UPS                3    2   6                                                                      3    2   6
Photocopier         1    7   7                                                                     1    7   7
Computer SupplIs              8                                                                              8
TOTAL                       AL                                                                            1M



-47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
COPPERBELT UNIVERSITY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(US$000)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              YEAR 1   YEAR 2  YEAR 9    YEAR 4    YEAR 5   TOTAL
LONG TERM
Substitute Lecturer in                24         24       24          0          0       72
Accounting to cover for staff
tudying at the Zambia
Centre for Accounting Studis
SHORT-TERM
Expert to mist in curriculum          28         28       26         28         28      140
developenwt and raising of
academic standards
TOTAL                                  j         U         j         2          2       212



.48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 51
ZAMIA
FILMUP PROJECT
ATC, CHINGOLA
(Us$000)
Yew I       YY a    Ye              Ye  4       Ye  5       Total  % Foelun
tmhEibMg accountancy
teahing mOetods /                                     0           30         0            0                     30          100
Lbrwy books                                          170            0         0            0                    170          100
OS. equIpment                                         ff0                     0            0                      65          90
Vulace                                                40            0         0            0                     40           sO
Hostl renvation & Imlshing                             J            Q         Q            Q                     23           70
m            Al          2            2                    alu
1/ One i.N membwr poselbly the principal or hi Deputy) should vilt 3 Instun in the UK spending
one month in each, come back and teach the other mtaf member what he or she has lant.



-49 -
ANNE%4
Peg 1J dli
ZAMBIA
PIUUW PROJECT
ATC - CHISOLA
EQU WMENT AD WBOKS
638*000)
-  -~~~~~~~~~~                              EmS            EmS~~~~~~~~~~~HLO  M
PC                    6    520                                                                  a    5 s
Pr,nD otMI4           J   1   5.4                                                               3   1.6  5.4
EIeSkonic Typwrws     2    2   4                                                                 2    t   4
Phocowr Qey Duty)   1   25  2a                                                                  1   t    n
Boks                          170                                                                       t70
Totd                          fL                                                                         ^



.5O-
ZAMBIA                                                         ANNEX 4
FILMUP PROJECT                                                      Pae. 14 of 51
ATC CHINGOLA
(U3OOOw
De"dfflon                                    Wm I            Wm aW                              ma
A. RENOVATION &
REFURBISHING OF
HOSTEL
Al. CHAIRS              77 0.025 1.92                                                                              1.93 1.93
A2. Tabls               77  0.05 3.8                                                                               3.85 3S5
A3. Cupbowd Repair                1.25                                                                             1.25 1.25
A4. Fan for DInnig Hail   10 0.125 1.25                                                                            1.25 1.25
AS. Gutlr Repeosment              1.25                                                                             1.25 1.25
AS. Gomei Rwwaion                   5                                                                                5    5
A7. Dki,ng Chai        300 0.025  7.1                                                                               7.5  7.5
22.0                                                                                  22.0
B. VEHICLES
B1. Mnibus               1    40  40                                                                                 40  40
C. EOUIPMENT
C1. PC                   6     5   30
30 30
C2. Prnthbr  Dot Mb      3   1.8  1.4
5.4  5.4
C3. Typowrltr            2     2   4                                                                                 4   4
C4. PhoWcoplsr           1    25  25                                                                                25  25
94sy Diuy)                       84.4                                                                                  64.4



-S1 -
ANNEX 4
Page 15of51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROECT
ATC - CHINGOLA
VEHICLES
(Us000)
nun                                    EMI      L     MI              ~IM1                        mrT
_          i ,                                                                 _ _ I_  u    B T
MkibuL                1   40  40                                                                1   40  40
TOTAL                          40                                                                        40



-.52 -
ANNE 4
Page 16 of 51
ZAMBI
FILMUP PROJECT
NSBM
US$S000)
Year 1       Year 2   Year 3         Year 4       Year 5   Total  % Foreian
Training                                                35            0          0            0            0         38           70
Technical Aaltanc                                       48            0          0            0                      48          100
Teachig Aids (Study pacls,                              10           16         16           16           16         80          100
Ted books AJoumral)
64            o          o0  0        0            0                     100
Computer and Oflice Equ4ipmnt
J            0          0            0            0          a           60
Cimaoom Fumlshing
Veohkle                                                 70           30          0            0            0        100          100
Toal                                                   21                       if           i            1         m



.53 -
ANN*E 4
ZAMBIA                                 Page 17 of 51
NSBM
TRAINING
(US$000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES               YEAR 1   YEAR 2 YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5  TOTAL
LONG TERM
Letrer
CIMA 3 & 4 Zambia Cntrefor
Accountancy Studes                      5        0       0         0        0       5
Lecturer
MA Cornputer Studiea, UK                30        0       0        0         0      90
TOTAL                                   35        0       0        0         0      35



.54 -
ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA                       Page 18 of 51
FILMUP PROJECT
NSBM
TECHNICAL A881TANCE
(US$000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES                     YEAR 1    YEAR 2  YEAR S    YEAR 4    YEAR 6   TOTAL
LONG TERM
Subdilub Lecurer Accounting                  24          0       0          0          0       24
Subsdkub Lecturwr Accounting &
Compuing                                    24Q                  0         0          0       24
TOTAL                                                    2       2          2          2       a



- 55 -
ANUl"3 4
ZAMBIA                                                  Paeso Io dO
FUJUUP PROJECT
TEACHING AIDS
(US$000)
Dmm                      WE I              WAR a          YEDA              V W  4          VEDi U           10OTAL
98 __ 9                         g         -                                  1M  fM_ _M 
CiAI S1tudy Pack       00 0.025  1.5   00 0.025  1.5  s0 0.025  1.5   00 0.025  1.5   60 0.025  1.5  300 0.025  7.5
CIMAI RvsIko Ki        s0 0.015  0.9  so 0.015  0.9  so 0.015  0.9   60 0.015  0.9   60 0.015  0.9  300 0.015  4J
CILA 2 Study Pack      00 0.025  1.5   60 0.025  1.5  60 0.025  1.5  s0 0.025  1.5   60 0.025  1.5  300 0.025  7.5
CIMA2R vRIonKR         60 0.015  0.9   o0 0.015  0.9   60 0.015  0.9  6o 0.015  0.9   60 0.015  0.9  300 0.015  4.5
AAT I Study Pack       J0 0.022 1.76   J0 0.022 1.76   J0 0.022 1.70   J0 0.022 1.76   80 0.022 1.70  400 0.022  Ji
MT 1 R.lon Kit         80 0.012 0.00   00 0.012 0.90   80 0.012 0.90   8o 0.012 0.06   J0 0.012 O.90  400 0.012  44
AAT 2 Study Pack       J0 0.022 1.76   00 0.022 1.76   80 0.022 1.70   80 0.022 1.76   *0 0.022 1.76  400 0.022  8.
AAT 2 Revision Kit     80 0.012 0.00    0 0.012 0.06   8o 0.012 0.00    0 0.012 0.906   80 0.012 0.90  400 0.012  4.8
AAT 3 Study Pack       00 0.022 1.82   60 0.022 1.32   60 0.022 1.32   00 0.022 1.32   30 0.022 1.32  300 0.022  6.5
AAT 3 Rvion KR         60 0.012 0.72   e0 0.012 0.72   60 0.012 0.72   00 0.012 0.72   00 0.012 0.72  300 0.012  3.6
Accounting Twd Books   20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.0   20  0.03  0.0   20  0.03  0.0   20  0.03  0.0  100  0.03   3
IPSTed Books           20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.0  100  0.03   3
CDM Tad Books          20  0.03  o0.    20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.0   20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.6  100  0.03   3
CaLATed Books          20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  o0.    20  0.03  0.6   20  0.03  0.6  100  0.03   3
Joumas.                10   0.1   1   10   0.1   1   10   0.1   1   10   0.1    I   10   0.1   1   50   0.1  f!
TOTAL                           lii              iLl             iLl              li              iL               z



-56-
ANNEX4
Pag. 20 of 51
ZAMBIA
FMUw PROJECT
EQUIPMENT
(UB$'@o
mm                                    uinz            Hal                               UMIO MS  IwmL  m
PC                       6    1 50                                                                          6     5 30
Piw(Dt  i J"                 1.2 .4                                                                         a   1.4  6.4
Pdnter Aau               I    2   2                                                                          1    2   2
UPS                      1    2   *                                                                         1    2   2
PhoIoopI.r IHwvy Ddil    1   25  25                                                                         1   25  21
Dsk end Chair           30 0.375  Z.                                                                        20 0.375  7.
TOTAL                            nLi                                                                                 7J.I



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 21 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
ZNTB/PROCUREMENT IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
(US$000)
YEAR 1    YEAR 2    YEAR 3   YEAR 4    YEAR 5    TOTAL   % FOREIGN
Diagnostic Study                       100         0         0          0          0       100        100
Implem ntalon Supervision              30         30        30         30         30       150        100
Introduction of Zambiam
spcifications & standards             200        180         0          0         0       380        100
Informaon & data processing
system                                  0        125       125          0         0       250        100
TrainIng                               194        194      194        194        194       970         50
TOTAL                                 Am          m        La         22         VA    15



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 22 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
MOLA
(US$000)
YEAR 1      YEAR 2   YEAR 3        YEAR 4      YEAR 5   TOTAL % FOREIGN
Prilnting & Pubicatlon of Laws of       2000            0         0           0            0      2000          100
Zambia
Computer & Photocopying equipment        148           20        20           20          20       228          100
Computertraining-allstaff                 40           30        20           10           0       100            0
Training - Draf-ng Department             66           57        32           29          52       236           75
- Law Development Commission
- Shortterm                            19          19         0            0           0        38          100
- DPP                                  35          6o        30           30          30       185          100
- Civil and DebtCollecion             38           19        19           19           0        95          100
- Intrnatonal Law and                  30          30        30           30           0        120         100
Agreements Section
Books (IncludIng Legislative draftng)     27            0         0           0            0        27
Office equipment and vehicles            838            0         0            0           0       838
TOTAL                                     m          an    inC              in           1n    mz



-59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 23 d 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
MOLA
COMPUTER & PHOTO-COPYING EQUIPMENT
(US$000)
R 4 ~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL
QUANTIY UktT COG  9ftMWq  TOA GUANTITY M-Uf pTIM& ,U"WCOT OITTY UNIT C09T TOTAL QUANITY          TOTA
PC                 20    5  100                                                                         20    5  100
Prh'wr (Dot Mobx    4     2   8                                                                          4    2   8
Pritr (Lar)         1    2    2                                                                          1    2   2
Phocopier           2     7   14                                                                         2    7   14
UPS                 2     2   4                                                                          2    2   4
Shllory                       20               20               20               20               20              100
TOTAL                        iI               ?Q               2Q               22               an               a



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 24 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
MOLA, DRAFTING DEPT.
TRAINING
(US$-OOO)
TRAINEES AND COURSES                    YEAR 1        YEAR 2   YEAR S         YEAR 4       YEAR 5    TOTAL
SHORT TERM
State Advocate, certificate                   19                                                            19
in Legislative Drafting, RIPA
Asst. Parliamentary Draftsman,                             19                                               19
Gov't Legal Advisers, Inst.
Legal Studies
Asst. Parliamentary Draftsman                                         19                                    19
Asst. Parliamentary Draftsman                                                      19                       19
Parliamentary Draftsman                                                                          19         19
Parliamentary Draftsman                                                                          19         19
Local Shortterm seminars                     17             8         13           10            14        62
Long -term:
Assistant State Advocate                    30           30          0             0                      60
(Master in Legal Drafting)
TOTAL                                        If            57        au             2           52        i



-61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 25 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
MOLA, DRAFTING DEPARTMENT
TRAINING
(US$'000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES             YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3   YEAR 4        YEAR 5       TOTAL
SHORTTERM - LAW SEMINARS ON:
Laws on Investment                          3                                                           3
Taxation                                     8                                                          8
Immigration                                  6                                                          6
Business Entities (e.g. Companies                        4                                              4
Act
Trading (Trades Ucensing)                                4                                              4
Financial Institutions                                              5                                   5
Land Tenure                                                         8                                   8
Manufacturing (e.g. Factories Act                                                4                      4
Mlning                                                                           6                      6
Employee, Pensions & Compensaton                                                              8         8
Transport & Communications                                                                    6         6
TOTAL                                      i1            I         10           12           IA



-62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 26 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
LAW DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
TRAINING
(US$'000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES               YEAR 1      YEAR 2  YEAR 9       YEAR 4     YEAR 5   TOTAL
SHORT TERM
Senior Research Felbw -                 19                                                   19
Certifcate in Legislative
Drafting, UK
Research Felbw, Certdficate                        19                                         19
in Legislative Drafting, UK
TOTAL                                   19         19                                         38



-63 .
ANNEX 4
Page 27 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
DPP
TRAINING
(US$000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES            YEAR 1       YEAR 2      YEAR 3   YEAR 4        YEAR 5      TOTAL
LONG TERM
State Advocate, LLM                       30                                                        30
Intemational Criminal Law, UK
State Advocate, LLM                                   30                                            30
Criminology, UK
State advocate, LLM, UK                                                                  30         30
State advocate, LLM, UK                                                      30                     30
Principal State Advocate,                             30                                            30
LLM Criminology, UK
Senior State Advocate,                                           30                                 30
LLM International Criminal Law, UK
SHORT-TERM
DPP, Symposium on                          5           0          0           0                      5
Economic Crime, UK
TOTAL                                     952 50                             j0 SO       S5



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 28 of 51
ZAM BIA
FILMUP PROJECT
MOLA- CIVIL & DEBT COLLECTION DEPT.
TRAINING
(USS'OOO)
TRAINEES AND COURSES              YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3   YEAR 4         YEAR 5       TOTAL
LONG TERM
Asst. Senior Staff Advocate,
Govt Legal Advisers Course RIPA              19                                                           19
State Advocate, Govt. Legal
Advisers Course, UK                          19                                                           19
Assistant Principal State
Advocate, International Law
Certificate, USA                                          19                                              19
Senior State Advocate, International Law                             19                                   19
Certificate, USA
State Advocate, International                                                     19                      19
Law Certificate, USA
TOTAL                                       38            19                      19            Q5



-65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 29 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
MOLA INTERNATIONAL LAW &
AGREEMENTS SECTION
TRAINING
(US$-000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES           YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEAR 3   YEAR 4       YEAR 5      TOTAL
LONG TERM
State Advocate, LLM Int Law, UK                               30                                30
State advocate, LLM Int Law, UK                      30                                         30
Asst. State Advocate, LLM In             30                                                     30
Commercial Law
State Advocate, LLM in                                                    30                    30
Commercial Law, UK
TOTAL                                   IQ           X        2Q           X           _



-66 -
ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA                                             Page 30 of 51
FILMLP PFROJECT
MOLA
OFFICE EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES
(US$000)
fiM                   NhBRI            NM1               EW              VEiiRXl4         TEAR 5TOTA
QLffTIY UNC ITT  COGT    alfm loufm TaA uAAT Low CouTm WSL UNT COTT TCTAL QUANTITY UI Q  UAfMUNIT CQT TOA
DPPS Chmbm's    12   20 240                                                                            12   20 240
Clw LAw            10   20 200                                                                         10   20 200
n*rondonu LAw       1   20  20                                                                          1   20  20
Laga Aid           11   20 220                                                                         11   20 220
LagIu   Drgafti     5   20 100                                                                          5   20 100
Offe EqLpmww        0    0  58                                                                          0    0  58
(Sepaat ht
TOTAL             2f   100         8                                                                   S     0 m



-67 -
ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA                                              Page 31 of 51
FILMUP PROJECT
MOLA
OFFICE EOUIPMENT
Um                                                                                                           f TOTAL
ao81Jflnv tfuty oms . UmTmafl uLff cosy    uSff cou r TaLe  Iifl umiT coorAL o UfMnI UCT co TOTAL QUA4TITI UNIT COST TOTTE
Admkimtdon
-FiHngCWIrwW      12  0.35  4.2                                                                        12  0.35  4.2
DPP's
- Fax(  cNm       1 0    2   20                                                                        1 0    2  20
ktwnkormw law
-Fax mmc*rt        1    2   2                                                                           1    2   2
hnsIU for L1gI" Draffg
-Dwks & di  1  20   0.2   4                                                                            20   0.2   4
-Foxmachuu        10    2   20                                                                         10    2  20
Leglil &afU
-Faxmffwns         1    2   2                                                                           1    2   2
- corndicon.rs    3      1   3                                                                          3     1   3
- Tabb. & chiks    15   0.2   3                                                                        15   0.2   3
Du 2                                                                                58.2



-68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 32 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
LAW PRACTICE INSTfMTE (LPI)1/
(US$O)
YEAR I    YEAR 2   YEAR      YEAR 4    YEAR 5   TOTAL % FOREIGN
Equipmcnt & FurnHur                  206         20        20       20          20       286         100
Books(LP)                             60          0         0        0           0       60          100
Books on Lagislall  Drffng             2          0         0        0           0         2         100
BuIlding Re-dsign & Pbahaltation     367          0         0        0          0       387           60
TOTAL                                                                2Q         2Q       ]
1/ Includig Insltut of Legislatv Drafdlng.



- 69-
ANNEX4
Page 38 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
LAW PRACTICE INSTITUTE
EQUIPMENT & FURNITURE
(US$OGO)
mm  m Im Z                                         -MI            iWTAL
ominimuwx inT&  mM c   TOTAL Q        p         frltL inm  i  u               inL icomOarAL
PeC                20    5  100                                                                       20    5  100
maovawil -I         3    2    6                                                                        3    2    6
_hdw GMW)          2    2    4                                                                        2    2    4
G1, _IW             5    2   10                                                                        5    2   10
F _ -m-             3    7   21                                                                        3    7   21
um                  2    2    4                                                                        2    2    4
20              20               20               20              20             100
_as-,               2    2    4                                                                        2    2    4
VCR                 2    2    4                                                                        2    2    4
-ndmd PMPUW         2   0.5    1                                                                       2   0.5    1
nu _mhbw            2    2    4                                                                        2    2    4
wbng  _m            2    4    8                                                                        2    4    8
Mm Cabb_M          20  0.35    7                                                                      20  0.35    7
Do* a chw          50   0.2  10                                                                       50   0.2  10
_ -... -            2   0.5    1                                                                       2   0.5    1
tmy_ ghdvn         20   0.1    2                                                                      20   0.1    2
1TAL                         2Qfi             20                20              20              20              &a



-70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 34 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
LAW PRACTICE INSTITUTE
BOOKS
(US#000)
muN
m     m   TEAL mWm_ TEA  miui L1 TAu"                    TEL IMWfllWTCO W TOTAL fYJrrU1IWT   TOIAL
Books          1410        so                                                               1410        60



-71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 35 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS COURT
(Us$000)
YEAR 1  YEAR 2   YEAR S  YEAR 4   YEAR 5   TOTAL % FOREIGN
Ubrary Support (books and ournals)     39         0         0         0        0        39        100
Equipment                             176        20        20        20       20       256        100
Training                               55        60         0        54        10      239         90
Vehicles                               54         0         0         0        0        54        100
Fuxnit  & fittings                     30         0         0         0        0        30         60
(New Ndola Courl
2Faxmfachines(Luska&Ndola)              4         0        0         0         0         4        100
Rocord quipm.nt                       B6          0         0         0        0        68        100
hter-comsystem                         14         0         0         0        0        14         90
Ak condWoning                          62         0         0         0         0       62        100
RehabilhaItonP/Rcleign of Cowt        106         0         0         0        0       106         s0
Buidings (LUsaka & Ndola)
TOTAL                                 508        p2                 Zi        S2       I2         900



-72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 38 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
JUDICIARY
(US$'00)
YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3   YEAR 4        YEAR 6      TOTAL    % FOREIGN
Office equlpmentand irniture                955           20        20           20          20       1035         100
Training - Long trm                          60           90        90           90          90        420         100
- Shortterm                          100           55        55           35          30        275           5
Vehicle                                    1279            0         0            0           0       1279         100
Book nd journals                            478          272       277          350         510       1887         100
TOTAL                                     am                                                nl 44  45



-73 -
A?UJEX 4
Pagr7 of 51
ZAMBLA
FLMLP PROJECT
JUDICIARY
COMPUTER  OFFICE EQUPHOIP
& FUNftURE
nEM                      Si31314                                                                 Si 
mm           amano   a               VEM IMI  a   la        a      se     na a        mrEM          a  s     TOTmAL       M
OWlill llT COwr Wl  QA il       OAL9UITIU =    llUw Co  TOTAL Uw af            N ZICX  TOTA  rOSICFBL UFT TOTAL
Electoric            40      2   80                                                                            40      2   80   100
Typewits
Elecrcal             50   1.5  75                                                                               50   1.5  75   100
Typeits
Manual               50   1.1  55                                                                              50   1.1  55   100
Typewts
Lockers              500  0.08   40                                                                            500  0.08   40   100
Typing Chat          500   0.1   50                                                                            500   0.1  50   100
Phobcopler           20      7  140                                                                            20      7  140   100
Duplicatng           20      4   80                                                                            20      4   80   100
Machin
Filing Cabinet       500  0.35  175                                                                            500  0.35  175   100
PC                   40      5  200                                                                             40     5  200   100
Printer                a     2   16                                                                              8     2   16   100
(DOT MATRIX
Printe &aser)          2     2    4                                                                              2     2    4   100
UPS                   10     2   20                                                                             10     2   20   100
Shtonersy                        20                20                20                20                20               100   100
TOTAL                           055                                                                                      1035



-74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 38 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
JUDICIARY
TRAINING
(US$-000)
TRAINEES & COURSES                       YEAR 1       YEAR 2   YEAR S        YEAR 4       YEAR 5   TOTAL
LONG TERM
Pulsne Judge, LLM
Commercial Law, UK                           30                                                         30
Principal Resident                            30                                                         30
Magistrate, LLM, UK
Int. Criminal Law
Supreme Court Justce                                       30                                            30
LLM, UK
Puisne Judge, LLM                                         30                                             30
Commercial Law, UK
Registrar of High Court                                   30                                             30
LLM commercial law, UK
Supreme Court Judge                                                  30                                  30
LLM Commercil Law, UK
Senior Resident Magistrate                                           30                                  30
LLM Commercial Law, UK
High Court Judge, LLM                                                30                                  30
Commercial Law, UK
Supreme Court Judge,                                                              30                     30
LLM Commercial Law, UK
High Court Judge, LLM                                                             30                     30
Commercial law, UK
Principal Resident                                                                30                     30
Magistrate LLM Commercial
Law, UK
High Court Judge, LLM                                                                          30        30
Commercial Law, UK
Resident Magistrate                                                                            30        30
LLM Commrcial Law, UK
Resident Magistrate                                                                            30        30
LLM Commercial Law, UK
TOTAL                                         S0           90        90           90           90       420



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Pago 39 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
JUDICIARY
TRAINING
(US$'000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES                   YEAR 1       YEAR 2   YEAR S       YEAR 4      YEAR 5   TOTAL
SHORT TERM
Chief JusUc, Study Tour                     13                                                       13
of USA Courts
ComputerTraining                            50          40        30           20          10       150
Stock Exchange Seminar                      15                                                       15
25 Judges (2 days)
Economic Crimes Seminar                     22                                                       22
37 Magistrates (4 days)
Workshop for 30 Paralgal staff                           15                    15                    30
Economic Crimes Sominar for                                       25                                 25
25 Judges
Conflict of Law Seminar                                                                    20        20
for Judge.
TOTAL                                      100          aS        55           35          30       275



f i |    
IS   ^       M~~~~~
10~~~I
>  O  O  s          'Iii
1^         ^ a   f~~~~
19 Ig o8  *  o 
(a



-77-
ANNEX 4
Pago 41 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES
(US$'000)
YEAR 1 YEAR 2 YEMA 3 YEAR 4 YEAR 5 TOTAL % FOREIGN
TRAINING                        60       76      61        0       0      197       90
EOUIPMENT                       66       0        0        0       0       6s      100
TOTAL                          in                g E       Q              21#



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 42 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES
TRAINING
(US$S000)
TRAINEES AND COURSES           YEAR 1  YEAR 2   YEAR 3  YEAR 4   YEAR 5   TOTAL
Assitant Registrar
LLM Intelectual Property            30                                               30
UK
Acting Assistant
Registrar, LLM Commercial
Law, UK                             30                                               30
Evaluation officer, LLM
Commercial Law, UK                            30                                     30
Uibrarian, MSC Information
Management, UK                                30                                     30
Short-Term (See next page)                    1e        61                           77
TOTAL                               no                                             197



-79-
ANNEX 4
Page 43 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES
TRAINING
(US$'OOO)
TRAINEES AND COURSES           YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5   TOTAL
SHORT TERM
Senior Examiner- Diploma
in Intellectual Property,                               15                            15
UK
Inspector, diploma in Statistics, UK                    15                            15
As above                                                15                            15
In-country seminar for 10
people on document storage                     8         8                            16
and retrieval
Registrar, Study Tour                          8                                       8
Sweden
Deputy Registrar, Study                                  8                             8
Tour, Australia
TOTAL                                         16         177



-80-
ANNEX 4
Pege 44 d 51
FILMUP PROJECT
REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES
EQUIPMENT
PC              5   5  25                                                           5   5  25  100
PFkinr (Law)    2   2   4                                                           2   2   4 100
PhoMocopr       1  25  25                                                           1  25  25  100
-  Duty)
MkwoIm          1  10 10                                                            1  10  10 100
Rsdv
UPS             1   a   a                                                           1       2   100
TOTAL



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 45 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
KEY UNE MINISTRIES
(US$'000)
YEAR 1    YEAR 2  YEAR S       YEAR 4    YEAR 5   TOTAL % FOREIGN
Computer equipment &            144          20       20         20          20      224         100
Supplies
Training                         30          13       10          0           0       53          0
TOTAL                           1u           a XR SO                        Z        A m



-82 .
ANNEX 4
Page 46 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
KEY LINE MINISTRIES
EQUIPMENT
(US$S000)
MEml
mIIm uYi 1II                               is mT t     L             r wIIl  I i 71L 2Dll UmIm m1 l
PC              18    5  80                                                                         16    5  80
Printer          4     2   a                                                                        4    2   8
( M
PhotocopIlr      4    7  28                                                                         4    7  28
UPS              4     2   8                                                                         4    2   8
Compnuer Stdonry           20               20              20               20               20             100
TOTAL                     1m                22              2Q               22               &              VA



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 47 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
KEY UNE MINISTRIES
TRAINING
(USS'000)
TRAINEES & COURSES         YEAR 1    YEAR 2  YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR 5   TOTAL
SHORT TERM
Computr Training              30         10      10          0         0       50
S  unk,                        0          3       0          0         0        3
TOTAL                           Q13              10          Q         Q       5S



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Page 48 to 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
(US$OOO)
YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR S  YEAR 4   YEAR 5   TOTAL % FOREIGN
Flanci l Component Coordinator         121        58        42         43        42       306         90
Legal Component Coordinator            117        52        36        37         36       278         90
Project Launch Workshop                 18         0         0         0         0         18         50
Audit of Project Accounts                 5         5         5         5         5        25          0
Supervsing Archftect                    15        10         0          0         0        25          0
Procu'ementOlficer                      68        36        36        36         36       212         21
TOTAL                                  Hi        1L        119       i         L          E           37



-85S
ANNEX 4
Page 49 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
FINANCIAL COMPONENT COOROINATOR (FCC)
(US$ooo)
EXPENDFTURE                      YEAR 1  YEAR 2   YEAR S  YEAR 4   YEAR 5   TOTAL
Project Coordinator                    26        26        26       26        26       130
Searotary/Admin. Assltant               6         6         B         6        6        30
Vehicle                                25         0         0         0        0        25
Vehicleandotherequipmernt               3         3         3         3        3        15
(Mainteance)
PC                                      5         0         0        0         0         5
Printe(rasar)                           2         0         0        0         0         2
Photocopler (Heavy Duty)               25         0         0        0         0        25
Fax Machine                             2         0         0        0         0         2
Air fares                                1        1         1         1        1
Copp.rbsltvviets2/                      5         5         5         5        5        25
Procurmrent Seminar & Advice           20        15         0        0         0        35
Office Supples & maintence              1         2         1         2        1         7
TOTAL                                  =         it                 4
1/ Tripe to the Copperbelt to lialse with CBU, ATC, and the NIEC School.
2/ Esdmated at 4 trips a year of 4 days each at $300/day to cover hotel, meals
ca rentbl, and all Incdental expenses.



-86a
ANNEX 4
Page 50 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
LEGAL COMPONENT COORDINATOR (LCC)
(US$SOOG)
EXPENDITURE                      YEAR 1  YEAR 2   YEAR 3  YEAR 4  YEAR 5   TOTAL
Project Coordinator                    26       26        26        26       26       130
Swelry/Admin. Astant                    6        6         6         6        6        30
Vehicle                                25        0         0         0        0        25
VehIcIsandohewrequIpnrwnt               3        3         3         3        3        15
PC                                      5        0         0         0        0         5
Prltr (Dot M*bc)                        2        0         0         0        0         2
Prtr (Laar)                             2        0         0         0        0         2
F.axMachir                              2        0         0         0        0         2
Photocopier (heay Duty)                25        0         0         0        0        25
ProcurwntSwrw&Advice                   20       15         0         0        0        35
Offic.Supplee & maln n                  1        2         1         2        1         7
TOTAL                                 la         a                            f Aiz    DzZ



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Page 51 of 51
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
PROCUREMENT OFFICER
(US$'000)
YEAR 1  YEAR 2  YEAR 3  YEAR 4  YEAR 5  TOTAL  FOREIGN %
SaWy- Procwnent Offiw                 24        24       24        24       24       120         0
Sscr.ary                               6         6        6         6        6        30         0
Vehieb                                25         0        0         0        0        25       100
MKir,t.mvc                             3         3        3         3        3        15        70
PC                                     5         0        0         0        0         5       100
PrInhr (DotMatix)                      2         0        0         0        0         2       100
Oflck supplie &maintwrce               3         3        3         3        3        1 5       90
TOTAL                    ifl  S8                 9       5     ai



- 88 -
RLMUJP PROJECT
IMPL.iEMOTATION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED ANNUAL PAYMENTS
fuslIMMIllni
Pr -j3ol       189          os            S"           1067           SS*0       *oo
Praiat  wnbll auiQwlet                  I....J.3..4....2 34  1223  4  12234                     1223  4   12  34   1  2 34 Pt             .n  ..CwIFI
Cv.di Timin
S,04-mv.se AJcWtC's cortrwtt for IDA tw.vd
S-ouwV Of Su..V.ua  A,dutact's commai
DommorAid Documanw1 ready fat IDA PAview
B.dAwavd SIhrmtted to IOA
CoratuctJvl ILPI and IRCO
Pe,mnm0.2                                                               0.4                                                             0.6
Mtmon of Poc%wemam S9eeadbet
Bid docuanenla ready for IDA revsww
S.dAwwd subm.tned to IOA
Contract Sigew"e
Vehciee. Eqwement wd Ituretkse                                2.5         2.6            0.6           0.2          0.2         0.2       6.3      Ica/odw
Prwnin of Lawseof Zwnbia                                      0.1         2.0                                                               2           ICB
Uibvwy beebe ad Journdem                                      0.3         2.6                                                             2.6           Ica
CQNSULTAMMi
TOReISwt kIe for ptovyd
BidAwwrd m*minWtla  IDA
Comeau soviewed by IDA
Coittyac SigMNuw
Tram"g                                                          I           I              1           0.2          0.2        0.2        3.6          otIw
TOdcaiVC Aaenmw  ad SItdIm                                    0.6         0.6            0.2           0.2          0.2        0.2        i.E         Otte
P'rogec Coormik%makm s. Mwonenwa                              0.1         0.2            0.2           0.1          0.1          0        0.7         O16w
inrneveaNd 0pweeb  Coot                                       0.2         0.3            0.2           0.2          0.2          0        1.1           NIF
I/ NIF - Not IDA-finoweal.



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
Estimated Rate of
Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(USS18 million)
US$'000                        Estimated Disbursement
Ouarterly      Total for     Allowina 6       Total for
Accrual          Year  Months' Delay            Year
1994
March 31                             2580
June 30                              2680
Sept. 30                             2680
December 31                          2680          10620           2580           2580
1995
March 31                              629                          2680
June 30                               530                           2680
September 30                          530                          2680
December 31                           530           2219            629           8669
1996
March 31                              438                           530
June 30                               438                            530
September 30                          438                            530
December 31                           437           1751            438           2028
1997
March 31                              391                           438
June 30                               392                            438
September 30                          391                            437
December 31                           392           1566             391          1704
1998
March 31                              461                            391
June 30                               461                            392
September 30                          461                            392
December 31                           461           1844             461          1636
1999
March 31                                                             461
June 30                                                              481
September 30                                                         461
December 31                                                            0          1383
TOTAL                                           1 8000                         1800



-90.
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision would primarily take the form of full-time project
management by the two project coordinators: The Financial Component Coordinator (FCC) and
the Legal Component Coordinator (LCC). Their supervisory functions would include:
(a)   review, initialing and recording of:
(i)    all project procurement orders;
(ii)   all disbursement requests;
(iii)  all cheques drawn on the Special Accounts;
(iv)   all other documents evidencing project transactions of whatever nature;
(b)    preparation of annual project implementation budgets;
(c)    preparation of bidding and other project contract documents;
(d)    preparation of half-yearly reports on all aspects of project implementation,
including comparisons of actual with budgeted procurements disbursements, etc.;
(e)    maintenance of project books and records, and preparation of bank reconciliation
statements;
(f)    preparation of annual project accounts (FCC);
(g)    arranging for the audit of annual project accounts (FCC);
(h)    maintaining surveillance over project assets;
(i)   forwarding all procurement and disbursement requests, to and from IDA (FCC
and LCC), and all accounts and audit reports to IDA (FCC only); and
(j)    arranging and accompanying IDA supervision missions.
2.    In addition to special supervision missions to be mounted by IDA in accordance with the
timetable set out in the attached schedule, IDA staff would need to spend time at IDA
Headquarters on dealing with correspondence, reviewing and commenting on procurement
documents, disbursement requests, half-yearly reports and audited accounts. the amount of time
likely to be involved is estimated as follows:



- 91.
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Project Year 1:             12 staff weeks
Project Year 2              10 staff weeks
Project Year 3               8 staff weeks
Project Year 4:              6 staff weeks
Project Year 5               5 staff weeks
Project Year 6               3 staff weeks
3.    Approximately two and a halt years after credit effectiveness, there would be a Mid-Term
Project Review by Government and IDA. Terms of Reference for the review would be prepared by
IDA and cleared with Govenmment and IDA. Terns of Reference for the review would be prepared
by IDA and cleared with Government in advance of the review date. In general terms the review
would involve an examination of the status of implementation of the project, including not only
progress on procurement, disbursements, and construction, but also review of quantitative and
qualitative benefits anticipated from the project.



- 92 -
ANNEX7
Page 3 of 3
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate DPt      Act1lvl                                Expected Skdlls                          Stbff IIDUt
(Staff-Weeks)
FY94                 Project Launch Workshop and I st       - Chartered Accountant (or CPA)          8
Sept./Oct.. 1993     Supervision Mission                    - Counsel
- Training Expert
- Procurement Expert
.Feb./March 1994    2nd Supervision Mission                 - Chartered Accountant (or CPA)         8
- Construction review                  - Counsel
- General progress review              - Training expert
- Procurement Expert
FY95                 3 rd Supervision Mission               - Chartered Accountant (or CPA)          6
Sept./Oct. 1994      - General Progress Review              - Counsel
Feb./March 1995      4th Supervision Mission                - Chartered Accountant (or CPA)          6
- General Progress Review              - Procurement Expert
- Counsel
FY96                 5th Supervision Mission                - Chartered Accountant                  4
Sept./October 1995    - General Progress Review             - Counsel
Feb./March 1996      6th Supervision Mission and Mid-Term   - Chartered Accountant                   12
Review                                 - Counsel
- Training Expert
- Procurement Expert
FY97                 7th Supervision Mission                - Chartered Accountant (CPA)            4
Sept./Oct 1996      - General Progress Review               - Counsel
Feb./March 1997      8th Supervision Mission                - Chartered Accountant (CPA)             6
- General Progress Review              - Counsel
- Procurement Expert
FY98                 9th Supervision Mission                - Chartered Accountant (CPA)            4
Sept./Oct. 1997     - General Progress Review               - Counsel
Feb./March 1998      10th Supervision Mission               - Chartered Accountant                  6
- General Progress Review              - Counsel
- Procurement Expert
FY99                 11th Supervision Mission               - Chartered Accountant                   10
Sept./Oct. 1998      - Preparation of PCR                   - Counsel
- Procurement Expert



- 93 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
List of Documents in Project Files
1.    Old Constitution of ZICA (Adopted 26th October, 1985).
2.     The Accountants Act 1982.
3.     Submission to the World Bank of a Proposal to Fund the Development of Accountancy
Profession in Zambia (Author: Mr. John Kerry, ZICA and ZICAS)
4.    New Constitution of ZICA (Given to the World Bank in October 1992)
5.    Future Plans for the Accountancy Profession in Zambia (July 1991).
6.     The concepts and Philosophy of the ZICA Technician Examinations.
7.    ZICA - 1993 Budgeted Income and Expenditure
8.     CBU - Acting Vice Chancellor's Report on the State of the University.
9.     CBU - List of Staff of the Accounting and Finance Department.
10.    CBU - Project Request.
11.   A.T.C. - Project Request
12.   ZNTB - Project Request.
13.   ZNTB - Outline of the Proposed Information Management System.
14.   Ministry of Finance Request to World Bank Res. Rep. for Assistance to the Ministry of
Legal Affairs (MOLA) (June 1992).
15.   MOLA - Project Document - 10 year Programme.
16.   MOLA - Back-to-Office Report of Mrs. Minneh Kane (November 1992) (with
Organigram of MOLA).
17.   Legal Services Project- Training Programme Report by Dr. Ngosa Simbyakula - Assistant
Dean, School of Law, University of Zambia.
18.   MOLA - Establishment of a Computerized Legal Database Report by Computer
Consultant - Mr. Rhidah Mung'omba.



- 94 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
19.   Building Renovations and Re-design (with Architectural Drawings) for the Law Practice
Institute (LPI) and the Industrial Relations Court (IRC).
- Report and Sketches by Architect Mr. Peter Mapipo.
20.   LPI Cost Estimates
21.   Project Proposals from the Industrial Relations Court (IRC) (November 1992).
22.   IRC - Justifications for the Items Requested.
23.   IRC - Quotation for Court Fittings and Furniture
24.   Registrar of Companies - Project Proposals.
25.    Sundry Legal Component Costs.



- 95 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING PROJECT (FILMUP)
Terms of Reference for a Procurement Specialist
Introductlon
1.    The Govemment of Zambia wishes to recruit a consultant procurement specialist to
implement all procurement services involved in the Financial and Legal Management Upgrading
Project (FILMUP). This project, to be financed by IDA, an affiliate of the World Bank, is
designed to remove identified obstacles to development through capacity building and
institutional development in the areas of accounting and auditing, public sector procurement,
legal drafting, the administration of justice, and the provision of business information. The
project components, their costs, and applicable procurement rules and regulations are described
in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits issued in May 1985, and
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants issued in August 1981. Use of the Banks Standard
Bidding Documents and Letters of Invitation Package will be mandatory.
The Assignment
2.    The consultant procurement specialist (CPS) will be located in and answerable to the
Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB), and responsible for all procurements connected with the
project. Since each institution will be responsible for Implementing its own component of the
project, the CPS will be acting on behalf of the chief executive of each Institution in project
procurement manters, and will report to them, as well as to the two project coordinators (the
Financial Component Coordinator (FCC), and the Legal Component Coordinator (LCC).
3.    The duties of the CPS would include:
(a) organizing all project procurements (including civil works, goods, training and
consultant services) on behalf of beneficiary institutions;
(b)  Keeping the FCC  and the LCC regularly infofmed of all procurement
developments;
(c)  preparing for the FCC and LCC a procurement budget not later than 30th
September each year (in respect of the following year) and a half-yearly
procurement progress report and up-dated procurement plan not later than
November 30 and May 31 each year. The budgets and reports would be
integrated in the budget the FCC and LCC will submit to IDA not later than
October 31, and the half-yearly reports they will send to IDA not later than June
30 and December 31 each year;
(d)  liaising closely with the ZNTB and the consultants responsible for the
procurement improvement component of the project, so that they can take
account of the project's procurement practices, and so that the latter can benefit
from Improvements In procedures and documentation emerging from the
exercise;
(e) assisting in the procurement training of ZNTB and other government procurement
staff; and



- 96 -                         Anx
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
(f)  such other duties connected with procurements for the FILMUP project as may be
requested by the FCC, the LCC, chief executives of project beneficiary
institutions, or World Bank staff.
(g)  Laising with the Ministry of Finance and other institutions in the disbursement
aspects and claims management.
Qualifications
(i)    Education
A University Degree, should have ability to prepare and present various reports
and monitoring data, excellent written and oral skills;
(ii)    Experdence
Should have demonstrated skills or qualifications and at least 7 years
experience reflecting increased level of responsibility and management
experience in public procurement;
-   experience  in  development and  operating  PC  based
procurement systems desirable;
-   good interpersonal skills.
Duty Station
Lusaka, Zambia
Duration of Assignment
Initially for a period of one year with provision for extension based on project
implementation status.
Reporting Requirement
. Quartely written reports to the project coordinators with copies to ZNTB and
IDA



ZAMBIA
FILMUP PROJECT
MONITORABLE INDICATORS
Indicator                                                       Establishment (E). Achievement  (A) or Review  (R) Date
[li 7jm        ]1184                          13011-m- Ig
193           llss-  -1S9 -l| --#| -- - I                              I I
0.~~~~~~C   .: ch   JU                    3*p     W   Mch   Jw         Sp       *: .  M h  Join  ch:   D .    Mmh :JU            S 
1. Succes RaPotc dofAmarcy       E                    R                            R                           R                              R                           R
Student Al C8U, ATC, and NSBM
2. Pow~  d e    Iae  reawered    E                    R                            R                            R                             R                           R
kmm studet at COU, ATC and
NS8M
3.c rmsm v pwiod shduskW         E                    R                            R                            R                             R                           R
Rod   ConsW (Both ho_rqg and
4.Ium d h  xoun_g and sudit      E                    R                            R                            R                             R                           R
Aadeds byZICA
S. Tknfo w                                                                         R                            R                             R                           Rf
steps in ZICA Education Sctrasot a
vwk Pio
S. OpeliofdmdAcoowtiby           A
Gow.
7. Appoinkaint of cosdlnt or          A
proow gu dianel utudy
B. Compeo of procrne                                  A
dOgnoec s .
9. Agreement on reconmendktIons                              A
do dUgoc study by IC and
Govn
10. Appok*_ud of bonAsnto                                          A
-  p-wnw Aion
PIl
11. Nun*oerf dgIqivdnmen                              R                            R                            R                             R                           Rf
brnd wide l     d "so
12. Aere tcnetakmnd nemerf R                                                       R                            R                             R                           R       X
of pae of ela      d* n                                                                                                                                                                   -
13. Numbrof caseflldadnd       E      R               R                            R                           R                              R                           Rft
pndig hi Hih Cout and Suprm
Cowlt.
14. Tn ltaken torabtW_         E      R               R                            R                           R                              R                           R
kifomitln of the Registar 
Coffpanles.



