DOCUMENTS 
CREDIT NUMBER 2535 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                fe, 1993


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2535 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   30                , 1993,
between the REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MOLA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Legal Affairs;
(b)   "ZNTB" means the Zambia National Tender Board, a
statutory body established pursuant to the Borrower's Zambia
National Tender Board Act of 1982;
(c)   "ZICA"  means  the   Zambia  Institute  of  Certified
Accountants, an institute established pursuant to the Accountants
Act of 1982;
(d)   "CBU" means the Copperbelt University, a statutory body
established pursuant to the Borrower's University Act of 1992;


﻿-2-
(e)   "ATC" means   the  Accountancy  Training  College  of
Chingola, a training institute owned and managed by the Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines Limited, a company established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(f)   "NSBM" means the NIEC School of Business Management, a
trust managed by the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Limited, a holding company established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower;
(g)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)   "Project Account" means the account to be opened by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(i)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 27, 1993 and May 6,
1993 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(j)   "Kwacha" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
12,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts, a
Financial Component Special Account for the purposes of Part A of
the Project and a Legal Component Special Account for purposes of


﻿-3-
Part B of the Project, each in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2003 and ending February 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(i)    shall carry out Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the
Project through MOLA, Part B.4 of the Project
through the Industrial Relations Court and Part
B.5 of the Project through the Office of the
Registrar of Companies, all with due diligence
and   efficiency  and   in   conformity   with
appropriate financial, procurement and legal
practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such Parts of the
Project; and
(ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement,
shall cause ZICA to carry out Parts A.1 and A.5
of the Project, ZNTB to carry out Parts A.3 and
A.4 of the Project, and CBU, ATC, and NSBM, to
carry out Parts A.2 (a), A.2 (b) and A.2 (c) of
the  Project,   respectively,  all  with   due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate accounting practices, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable such entities to carry out their parts of
the Project, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with the carrying out of the Project
by such entities.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part B of the


﻿-6-
Project and cause ZICA, CBU, ATC, ZNTB and NSBM to carry out their
respective  Parts   of  the  Project,   in  accordance  with  the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit for
their respective parts of the Project available to ZICA, CBU, ATC,
ZNTB and NSBM as grants.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' servides required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by the date one year after
the Effective Date, furnish to the Association the diagnostic report
referred to under Part A.3 of the Project; the report shall be of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall specify.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, no later than
December 31, 1996, or such other date as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association, carry out jointly with the
Association a mid-term review of the Project. The review shall,
inter alia, assess progress:
(i)    in   achieving   agreed  monitorable   targets
established for the Project;
(ii)    in  implementing the recommendations of the
diagnostic report referred to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement; and
(iii)    by ZICA, in establishing a technician level
certificate for accountancy training.
(b)   The  Borrower  shall  implement  the  recommendations
acceptable to the Association of the mid-term review.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project:
(a)   open and maintain in Kwacha in the name of the Project
an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Association on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-7-
(b)   deposit into the Project Account an initial amount in
Kwacha equivalent to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000);
(c)   thereafter deposit into the Project Account not later
than March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 in each year
during Project implementation, the amount necessary to replenish the
Project Account to the initial amount referred to in the preceding
sub-paragraph; and
(d)   ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account
pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make
payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project and not
financed or to be financed by the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of said records and accounts for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿-8-
(iii)    furnish   to  the   Association   such   other
information concerning such records, accounts,
financial statements and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,  all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing   such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen


﻿-9-
which shall make it improbable that ZICA, ZNTB, CBU, ATC or NSBM
will be able to perform their respective obligations under the
Project;
(b)   the various laws referred to in Section 1.02 (b), (c)
and (d) shall have bi=on amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ZICA,
CBU, or ZNTB to perform any of their respective obligations under
the Project; and
(c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ZICA, ZNTB, CBU, ATC or NSBM or for the suspension of their
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Borrower has appointed the two Coordinators
referred to in paragraphs A.1 and B.1 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement and a procurement officer for the Project using the
procedures in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b)   the  Borrower  has  opened the   Project  Account  in
accordance with Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement and has deposited
therein the initial amount referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Ridgeway
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /41 &
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional ce7resident
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 350,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2) Vehicles,                                 100% of foreign
equipment                                  expenditures and
and furniture:                             95% of local
expenditures
(a) under Part A.1          300,000
to A.3 and A.5
of the Project
(b) under Part A.4          200,000
of the Project
(c) under Part B          3,900,000
of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) Training:                                  100%
(a) under Part A.1          250,000
to A.3 and A.5
of the Project
(b) under Part A.4          780,000
of the Project
(c) under Part B          1,400,000
of the Project
(4) Consultants' services     1,200,000        100%
for Part A of the
Project
(5) Printing under            1,430,000        100%
Part B.2 (d) of
the Project
(6) Library books and                          100%
journals:
(a) under Part A            230,000
of the Project
(b) under Part B          1,600,000
of the Project
(7) Project Coordi-                            100%
nation and
Management:
(a) for Part A of           300,000
the Project
(b) for Part B of           180,000
the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(8) Refunding of                180,000        Amount due
Project Prepa-                             pursuant to
ration Advance                             Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(9) Unallocated                 500,000
TOTAL               12,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "project coordination and management" means the
expenditures in respect of: (i) vehicles and equipment (including
fuel and maintenance) for use in the coordination and management of
the Project, and salaries, training and office expenses of the
Financial Component Coordinator, the Legal Component Coordinator and
the procurement officer; and (ii) the Project launch workshop, the
independent audits of the Project accounts and salaries of the
supervising architect and three secretaries.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made
for expenditures under Categories (2) (b) and (3) (b), until the
Borrower has completed the diagnostic study described under Part A.3
of the Project under terms of reference agreed upon with the
Association and has reached agreement with the Association on a plan
of action based on the recommendations of the study; and (c)
payments made in respect of Category (1) until the Borrower has


﻿- 15 -
employed an architect acceptable to the Association under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association for the supervision of the
civil works to be undertaken under the Project.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the flow of
public and private business activity and the implementation of
development programs, and to facilitate reform through capacity
building and institutional development in the areas of accounting,
auditing, public sector procurement and provision of legal services
and of business information.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Financial Management
1.    Strengthening of ZICA through training of its staff in order
to improve national accounting and auditing standards and to
introduce Zambian accountancy qualifications.
2.    Strengthening of: (a) the Accountancy Department of the
Business Faculty of CBU; (b) the ATC; and (c) the NSBM through
provision of equipment and training of staff in order to increase
the number of middle and technician level accountants in the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    C rrying out a diagnostic study of the Borrower's procurement
procedures.
4.    Improvement of the Borrower's procurement standards and
practices, including strengthening the capacity of ZNTB through:
(a)   clarification of the respective roles of ZNTB and its
committees;
(b)   harmonization of procurement procedures and practices of
the Borrower and of the various donors involved in the territory of
the Borrower to evolve best practices and a set of standard
procurement documents and procedures acceptable to the majority of
the parties involved and adoption by the Borrower of such practices
and documents; and
(c)   training  of public   servants,  including  staff  of
parastatal organizations, involved in procurement.


﻿- 17 -
5.    Carrying out studies of various aspects of the financial
management as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association during Project implementation.
Part B:     Legal Management
1.    General Training Program
(a)   Carrying out a comprehensive training program for legal
and paralegal staff of the judicial services, MOLA and other
ministries of the Borrower involved in commercial law issues,
including the Office of the Registrar of Companies; and
(b)   improving the capacity of the Law Practice Institute and
the Institute of Legislative Drafting to provide quality training
and education, through training of staff, rehabilitation of school
buildings and acquisition of office equipment and materials
(including computer hardware and software), and of reference books,
journals and furniture.
2.    Ministry of Legal Affairs
Strengthening the capacity of MOLA to provide quality legal
services through:
(a)   acquisition of office equipment and materials (including
computer hardware and software), and of reference books and
journals, furniture and vehicles;
(b)   training of relevant staff in the use of computer
hardware and software acquired under the Project;
(c)   holding a workshop for key line ministries on correct
procedures for submission of instructions to the Legislative
Drafting Department; and
(d)   printing of the Laws of Zambia.


﻿- 18 -
3.    Supreme Court and High Court
Strengthening the capacity of the Supreme Court and the High
Court to deal effectively with its case load through:
(a)   acquisition of office equipment and materials (including
computer hardware and software), and of reference books, journals,
furniture and vehicles; and
(b)   training of relevant staff in the use of computer
hardware and software acquired under the Project.
4.    Industrial Relations Court
Strengthening the capacity of the Industrial Relations Court to
dispose of disputes through:
(a)   establishment of a permanent Industrial Relations Court
in Ndola and rehabilitation of its building in order to create
premises for use of such court;
(b)   rehabilitation of the premises of the      Industrial
Relations Court in Lusaka, including creation of a second court
room;
(c)   acquisition of office equipment and materials (including
computer hardware and software), and of reference books and
journals, furniture and vehicles; and
(d)   training of relevant staff in the use of computer
hardware and software acquired under the Project.
5.    Registrar of Companies
Strengthening the capacity of the Office of the Registrar of
Companies to effectively collect and manage business information and
to make such information available to thS general public through:
(a)   acquisition of office equipment and materials (including
computer hardware and software) and of reference books and
furniture; and


﻿- 19 -
(b)   training of relevant staff in the use of computer
hardware and software acquired under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 20 -
SCREDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price  contracts, the  invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A
hereof, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
3.    For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods
imported under the Project, no price verification shall be conducted
in respect of those goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zambia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 21 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, and all civil works may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply..
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the


﻿- 22 -
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means:
(i)    Categories (2) (a), (2) (b), (3) (a), (3) (b),
(4), (6) (a) and (7) (a) set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
in respect of the Financial Component Special
Account; and
(ii)    Categories  (1),  (2)  (c),  (3)  (c),  (5),  (6)  (b)
and (7) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of
the Legal Component Special Account.
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $500,000 for the Financial Component Special Account
and an amount equivalent to $500,000 for the Legal Component Special
Account to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the


﻿- 24 -
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or


﻿- 25 -
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further.withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promrtly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.    Part A of the Project
1.    Coordination. The Borrower shall appoint and maintain in ZICA,
until Project completion, a Coordinator (the Financial Component
Coordinator) having qualifications, experience and terms of
reference acceptable to the Association to coordinate the
implementation of Part A of the Project.
2.    Documentation. The Financial Component Coordinator shall act
as liaison with the Association with respect to all documentation
for Part A of the Project.
3.    Progress Reports. The Financial Component Coordinator shall
prepare and furnish to the Association, by June 30 and December 31
in each year during Project Implementation, detailed bi-annual
progress reports for Part A of the Project, including progress
achieved on financial, physical, procurement, disbursement and
training targets, all in a form acceptable to the Association.
4.    Implementation. ZICA, CBU, ATC, ZNTB and NSBM shall each be
responsible for implementing its respective Project component or
components.
B.    Part B of the Project
1.    Coordination. The Borrower shall appoint and maintain in MOLA
until Project completion a Coordinator (the Legal Component Project
Coordinator) having qualifications, experience and terms of
reference acceptable to the Association to coordinate the
implementation of Part B of the Project.
2.    Documentation. The Legal Component Coordinator shall act as
the liaison with the Association with respect to all documentation
for Part B of the Project.
3.    Progress Reports. The Legal Component Coordinator shall
prepare and furnish to the Association, by June 30 and December 31
in each year during Project Implementation, detailed bi-annual
progress reports for Part B of the Project, including progress
achieved on financial, physical, procurement, disbursement and
training targets, all in a form acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 27 -
4.    Implementation. The Supreme and High Courts, the Law Practice
Institute, the Industrial Relations Court and the Office of the
Registrar of Companies shall each be responsible for implementing
its respective Project component or components.
C.    Training
The Borrower shall ensure that the Legal Component Coordinator
and the Financial Component Coordinator attend procurement training
at the Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute (ESAMI) not
later than twelve months after the Effective Date.
D.    General Matters
1.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association by October 31 in
each year the consolidated budget and work program for the Project
for the following year.
2.    The Borrower shall appoint an independent auditor acceptable
to the Association for the purposes of Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement not later than thirty days after the Effective Date.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


