Doeument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5757
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1373-IND)
June 28, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This docmment has a resicted distnibution and may be used by recipiets ody in the perfonn=ce of
their offwid dutes. Its eontens my not othewise be disclosed wid-th  Word Bank athorization.



ACRONYMS
AN        Academy of Nutrition
ANP       Applied Nutrition Program
BPGD      Village Nutrition Improvement Coordinating Committee
-BAPPENAS  Natioral Development Planning Agency
BKKBN     National Family Planning Coordinating Board
CRDN      Ccnter for Research and Development in Nutrition
DIP       Development Budget
FNU       Food and Nutrition Unit
FTDC      Food Technology Development Center
GOI       Government of Indonesia
HVG       Home and Village Gardens
MELT      Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MHA       Mirnistry of Home Affairs
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOF       Ministrv of Finance
MOH       Ministry of Health
NCBC      Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change
NIPP      Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
PKK       Voluntary Women's Group
REPELITA  Five-Year National Development Plan
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
UPGK      Family Nutrition Improvement Program
WHG       World Health Orgarization
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency (Abbreviation)                   Rupiah (Rp)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average (1976)   US$1 = Rp 415
Intervening Years (1977-1982)   US$1 = Rp 535
Completior. Year (1983)         US$1 = Rp 625



IllSIk                 FOR0 OMCIL USE ONLY
NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN 1373-IND)
PROJECT COMPEON EROT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface  ...  ...000000060*00 0WO@@600000                                   1
Baic Data Sheet  .................................................    iii
I.   INTIODUCTION                                                         1
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRA Ao. .                  2
III.   PROJECT IMPLEENTATIIONo..oe.o.... ooo....   oo....o.ooo... .. oO     6
IV.   PROJECT ACCOMPLISmENTS.oo.eo....o.. 600oe0.o0oo00o00e.0.6.          12
Ao  Institution Buildig.......... o........o.o*...o.*....           13
6.   Direct Nutrition Action Programs....o..................       16
C.   National Nutrition Polilcy ....20
V.   PROJECT IMPACT                                                      21
VI.   BANK PERFO4ANCEEA...............o .o.oo..oo...o...e...o..           24
VII.  CONCLUSIONS.....O....o...o.o....o....                                26
Arames
1.     Project Organization. .......................................       30
2.     Schedule of Disbursementso...................................       31
3.     Compliance with Loa  Conditios ................ ...o ............ ..**  32
4.     External Evaluation Report:  Summary and Recommendations....        34
5.     National Family Nutrition Improvement Program (UFSK)........        37
6.     Goverment's Comuents on PCR................................    40
Map 12208 (PCR)
jm* drm!Idu      IMs                bB Odusd wkbm Wd duBk wu  __owm



INDONESIA
NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN 1373-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the completion report of the First Nutrition Development
Project in Indonesia (LN 1373-IND), which was identified by the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) and Baik staff in 1973. Appraisal was conducted in
August-September 1975 and its findings were presented in March 1976 to the
Bank's Board of Directors for a preliminary review; in accordance with the
instructions governing new projects with unique or unusual features. Based
on Board comments, several components with direct linkages with
agricultural productivity were added, and after a Post-Appraisal Mission in
June 1976, Board approval was obtained in March 1977 for a US$13.0 million
loan. The project was originally scheduled for completion by March 1981,
but was extended, and the loan account was finally closed in August 1983.
A mid-term report was presented to the Board in June 1980, and an external
evaluation of the project was conducted by an international team of experts
in 1982. The eummary and recommendations of this external evaluation
report is attached as Annex 4.
This completion report was prepared by the Population, Health and
Nutrition Department (PEN) and is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 1318-.IND dated February 16, 1977), President's Report (No.
P-1998-IND dated February 16, 1977), Loan Agreement (dated March 14, 1977),
supervision reports, the mid-term evaluation report of June 1980, the
external evaluation report of December 1982, the Government's draft
completion report of June 1983, and the findings of a Baik completion
mission to Indonesia in July 1983. The mid-term and external evaluation
reports are available from PEN.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was completed on July 13,
1984 and submitted to OED. The project was not selected for audit by OED
and the PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on March 22, 1985.
Comments received on May 14, 1985 have been taken into account and are
attached to the PCR as Annex 6.
When lending for nutrition first began, the Board felt that the
Bank should proceed cautiously and with only a few projects from which it
could learn. Todate the Bank has financed only four nutrition projects.
Projects in Brazil and Indonesia have been cmpleted, and the projeci in
Colombia is expected to be completed soon. These three projects approved
in 1976 and 1977 were heavily multisectoral, with agriculture, water supply
and sanitation, and food marketing components sometimes added to more
direct nutrition actions. The India Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project, approved
in 1980 was designed to concentrate on fewer actions: this project is
expected to be completed in about two years time.



- ii -
From the beginning, nutrition projects continued to receive
substantial policy level review. As part of the rewlew of the basic needs
nutrition paper it was decided that the Bank sbould improve its nutrition
knowledge through country economic and sectoral work. Since then, analyses
of varying intensity have been com-plated for 16 countries. In late 1983, a
major Internal review of untrltlo projects was undertaken within PEN. In
suiary this review concluded that altbough there was a need for more
systematic and stronger emphasis on nutrition In the Bank's population and
health progrm, the Bank would no longer be involved In complex imlti-
sectoral nutrition projects and only under appropriate circuuatances would
It finance more narrowly focused free-standing nutrition projects.
Thus, the Bank has In fact learned major lessons from its
involvement in nutrition lending. Audits of these projects would hardly
make additional contributions to the lesson-learning process. OED has
therefore decided that it would be wuch more cost-effective to pass-through
this nutrition PCR and undertake a special Impact-evaluation type study of
all four nutrition projects at some future date.



- ii -
ram=30 CUWIMI?U UPm UAISC 1*74 aMy
XMSUPIA NUtUT 3UULMW PIU0W
CLI-13-73-M)
*raSaal              Acua or               tal-Io
Eupectatlinw        Ouruet  tsacuto    Apgaiaalm  Eatloaca
LMoa Amount (UhSaLIlna)                    13.0                 123     ~97.4
Set. ny,umi-  cmp-t camp2eted                                   12/79
Icoegaic late at Suur                       /A                  W/A
n4acial rarfogmaem                      aed
lintitutioOal P.fotm                                           W. Coed
aDuLATm  ISTIAU  AN  ACtUAL Rziing
177         7779      PFM         ml3       FM3      FT83    P73
Apaalual Easiet0.3                         1.9       5.7        10.2      13.0      -        -
Actual CO3SLIUoOI             0.0         0.1        1.2         2.3  e    .0      10.3    1L336/
Actual M Z of AVppAiaL (Z)  0.00          0.77       9.23       21.5     4415      79.23   97.33
oatao_t 1imliaoreactz  hAuat 25. 1983
OriginaL Plan         ReYimim                  ctua
ZdmantticatoAs                  6/73                                       3/73
Dtiatiom                      1117M7                                    1/17/71
SnarE h.PCoVaL                223/76-J                                  3/01M7
Losa Sionig                   3/14/77                                   3/14/7
3e5octlue                     3/31/77                                   4/01/77
CigaiW                        3/31/31              3/31/32              3/2/313
3131/833
maima DATAL                                           D U
MNntb/  NO. *of   N.ndasu      Specaiaglonrio    PurEamma              Typa Gel/
UffaeinTear   Person   in Filad !t    AI23!a    !    kUtlAN    T-ad !    !-b
ZUtUicatin0 1    6/73         2          30              N,1
lXa.tifidtioo SI    73        I           2               a
rteparatio  I       2/4       2          20              IP
Pnrartio  II        4/74      1          10
Preparatin Z         /74      1          30
Preparatin Iv       6/74      2           3               .A
Preparation v       9/74      2          6                ,
subtotal                              L
Pre-*Ppra           3/75      7         Los          N.F.F.AJ
Proilow-ap          7/75      1          20               1
heprsisal.          9/75      a         260         3,PFAI.P.T.C
Pftt-&Mpraiaa       3/76      1          203
cupetwiui  I        3/77      3          63              l.A           1           2
sUpetYLiOB II       4/78      3          73              N.A           2           2         W/A
seeraiaia Xin       3/73      2          56              3,4           2           2         P.M
sopazvislo xv       2179      3          72              3.2           2           L         F.M
SuperuiocV v        6/79      S         135             3.3            2           1         F."
Sepeeiaia  Y        9/79      3          is         2         2 *.m
kpklan m I          2/0       5         120           X.Fin            2           2         P.M
supetYnim           sn'I  7/10  3        s0                            2           2         N.
Uepu'linam  x      II/so      3 60                      u.A7           2           L         N.?
SapEfeluao          3 /631    3          63               ,            2           L
sUp. usia   Ux      L1/2      3          s0o            .AgC           2
srlaioem            6/2       3          36 /75                        I                      v 3
sepZYlaiera  Z     12/82      1           2               a            I                      N
Clovstio            7/U3      3           3              S.P            1          2          -
SUtotal             31                   64**22                                             ,
_utc                                 -A- g
s      .=  naiw     V7                   n1,2                                           
Sourng                       Gow5iZ0t of  .ltdoe.ll                                  of
Etmansia  AWec,              UnLisEx                                              (NWat  mm *aalpinil puasrm
Education (MM.) *AguicoIt,,. 00. and 3ome 41 Stmil  .
Ptioodti   F-oct             None
Ptioa pCejo                                                            2
Potsoota 6t U fai a 3



- iv -
Footnotes
a/   Current estimate (para. 3.18).  The US$4.0 million decrease in total
project cost resulted from savings ir. civil works, furniture and
vehicles, consultants and fellowships, staff salaries and other
operating costs. The original project is estimated to have cost
US$9.3 million less than appraisal estimates (para.. 3.17)
b/   The loan was reallocated in 1981, and a number of activities were
either extended or added (para. 3.17 and 3.18)
c/   Including new activities added in January 1981 (para. 3.18).
d/   Final disbursement, as of August 25, 1983
e/   Data of preliminary presentation to the Board (para. 2.03)
f/   From supervision summary sheets.
j/   N - Nutrition; E = Economics; A - Architecture; H - Horticulture;
F - Food Technology; Fin - Finance; C - Communication; P - Population
and Policy Planning; R = Rural Development
h/   1 - Problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - major
problems.
i/   I = Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating.
J/   F = Financial; M = Managerial; T - Technical; P = Political; 0 - Other
k/   The second nutrition project was appraised in March 1985.



- v. -
INDONESIA
NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN 1373-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
l.       In the early seventies when the project was conceived, nutr4tion
problems in Indonesia were widespread, with almost two-thirds of the 130
million population malnourished. Children under five years of age, and
pregnant and lactating mothers were the most vulnerable group; but nutri-
tional anemia among males was the highest ever recorded in any country
during non-famine conditions. Vitamin A and iodine deficiencies were
severe and endemic, particularly among children. The project, approved by
the Board in March 1977, sought to overcome some of these problems. It was
completed in August 1983, and met most of its objectives. An external
evaluation conducted in July-August 1982 by an international team of
experts credited the project with 'strengthening and expanding the infra-
structure for a large scale nutrition program in Indonesia- and noted the
.quite impressive- impact of its action programs (para. 5.10).i As a
follow-up, the Bank has recently appraised a second nutrition project in
Indonesia.
2.       The first project was prepared in 1973-1977; and the loan became
effective on March 31, 1977, just a fortnight after loan signing.
Implementation encountered start-up problems (para. 3.02), with budgetary
and management difficulties (paras. 3.03 to 3.07) taking almost two years
to resolve. By June 1980, however, when a mid-term report was submitted to
the Board, project status and trends had started improving, and by August
1983-although two years behind schedule-the project had met or exceeded
most of its appraisal targets.
3.       The project objectives (para. 2.06) were to:
(i)  strengthen and expand the existing nucleus of personnel and
institutions for the formulation of nutrition programs,
operational research, manpower training, monitoring and
evaluation;
(ii)  develop nationally replicable measures to improve the
nutritional status of malnourished target groups; and
(iii)  assist in the formulation of a more comprehensive food and
nutrition program on a national scale.
4.       Specific project components (described in para. 2.06) included,
among others, activities emphasing institution-building (paras. 4.02 to
4.05), testing and delivery of an integrated package of nutrition-related
interventions in the field (paras. 4.12 to 4.15), anemia prevention and
1. All paragraph numbers refer to this PCR.



- vi -
control (para. 4.19), nutrition communication and behavioral change
(paras. 4.20 to 4.26), and national nutrition policy formulation (paras.
4.30 and 4.31). All these activities have been completed satisfactorily.
5.        The project components originally financed from the Bank loan
were estimated in 1980 at approximately US$9.3 million less than the
US$13.0 million apraisal estimate.  The loan was therefore reallocated in
January 1981, utilizing $4.9 million savings in loau funds, leaving a net
savings of about $4.4 million in total project cost. No change in
objectives was required (paras. 3.17 and 3.18). The extension or addition
of several new activities necessitated an 18-month extension in the loan
closing date.
6.        Bank contributions to the design and implementation of the
project have been substantial (para. 6.01), particularly the effective
policy dialogue since 1973 (para. 6.04), and the direct action-oriented
nutrition interventions suggested for addition by the Board (paras. 2.04
and 6.03). However, the project could have benefited during start-up from
greater attention to improving the project staff's knowledge of GOI and
Bank procedures, and from more realistic implementation schedules (para.
6.05).
7.        The project has demonstrated the feasibility in Indonesia of
multi-sectoral (nutrition and health) field interventions whose success
depends not only on inputs provided by government agencies but also on
resources available locally at the village level (paras. 4.15, 4.20 and
7.02). However, substantial effort over a long period of time was needed,
involving experimentation, training, technical assistance, and improvements
in management systems of the agencies involved. Simpler procedures for
monitoring and evaluation, closer but decentralized supervision of field
activities, faster and more flexible approval mechanisms for funds and
staff, and better coordination among various agencies would also have been
helpful (paras. 7.06 to 7.09). Government is taking steps to improve the
performance of its national nutrition program in all these areas; and it is
expected that the second project, appraised in March 1985, will help expand
and strengthen these efforts.



NUTRITION DEVZEOPH IT PROJECT OLM 1373-EnD)
PROJECT CNL           IpORT
I.  UO IC
1.01      This completion report for Indonesia's Nutrition Development
Project (LN 1373-IND) review  project experiepse from June 1973 (the first
identification mission by Bank staff) to loan closing In Agust 1983. The
first four years were spent on preparation and appraisal, including a special
preliminary presentation to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors In NMrch
1976. After Board approval the following year, project implementation got
off to a slow start, with initial budgetary and anagement problems taking
almost two years to get resolved. By June 1980, hoever, when a mid-ters
report was submitted to the Board, project status and trends had already
begun to show marked improvewent; and by August 1983-although two years
behind schedule-the, project ended with a strong record of achievement, with
most appraisal targets met or exceeded. More important, the project appears
to have contributed substantially to the level of Interest in Indonesia to
the nutrition problems and, though an ongoing policy dialogue made possible
by the project, to the level and quality of analysis undertaken.
1.02      When the project was first conceived, almost two-thirds of
Indonesia's 130 million population were malnourished, with children under
five years of age and pregnant and lactating mothers comprising the most
vuluerable groups. Nutrition problems mere widespread, the incidence of
nutritional Anreaa among males was the highest ever recorded in any country
during uo-famine conditions, and vitamiu A and iodine deficiencies (which
cause blindness and goiter, respectively) were severe and endemic,
particularly among children. The major reasons were inadequate and
maldistributed income, bigh processing and storage losses, and unbalanced
diets due to inappropriate feeding habits, especially of infants and young
children.
1.03      Government efforts to overcome these problems were relatively
small-scale and ineffective, suffering from lack of policy direction, paucity
of baseline data, inadequate institutional capacity for policy formulation
and implementation, and poorly trained and insufficient manpower. An evalua-
tion conducted In 1973 found that GOIts Applied Nutrition Program In eight
provinces had neither clear objectives nor target groups; the Academy of
Nutrition had limited enrollment and was unable to cater to the growing need
for trained nutritionists; and the Nutrition Research Institute (under the
Ministry of Health) bad neither the physical capacity nor the professionals,
technicians, and modern equipment needed ior Investigating the determinants
and consequences of malnutrition and suggesting cost-effective solutions.
There was no organization charged with improvements in food technology,
particularly for village food processing and storage. Furthermore, although
the Government was interested in developing and implementing a comprehenive
nationwide Family Nutrition Improvement Program (UPGK), its approach thus far
to nutritional problems had been fragmented and uncoordinated, with few links
between nutrition, health and agriculture. As a result, the poor neither
participated in, nor benefited very much from the ongoing programs.



- 2 -
1.04      The project sought to address all these deficiencies.  With the
overall objective of helping the Government formulate aud execute a more
comprehensive food and nutrition program ou a national scale, project activi-
ties emphasized national policy formulation, institution building, and
design, testing and delivery of an integrated package of nutrition-related
interventions in the field. Most of these activities were very satisfac-
torily completed. As a result, the project has helped lay the foundation for
a much stronger nationwide program, to which the Government is already
committed in its next five-year plau.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRALSAL
,.01      The project was the second free-standing nutrition project
supported by the Bank. (The first was in Brazil, approved six months before
the Indonesian project). Goverument of Indonesiats (GOI) major interest in
nutrition was also of recent origin. However, once the severity of the
nutrition problem was recognized, both parties showed a strong comditment and
willingness to collaborate oa a comprehensive, multisectoral nutrition
project addressing the loug-term needs of the country.
2.02      A Bank mission visited Indonesia in June 1973 to initiate a
dialogue with the Government, and to identify the broad outlines of a possi-
ble nutritiou project. GOI was very receptive to an indepth, wide-ranging
review of major nutritional issues facing the country. A Presidential
Instruction (No. 14, dated 13 September 1974) directed a committee of 10
ministers, chaired by the I-iaister of State for People's Welfare, to -execute
activities for the improvement of the people's menu on a national scale." In
February 1975 an inter-departmental Technical Commission was established,
headed by the Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning
Agency), to undertake detailed planning and coordination of program implemen-
tation. Six sub-committees were formed to address the following areas:
policy, nutrition research, food technology, nutrition demonstration, food
fortification, and training.
2.03      Project components were designed by these government committees,
assisted periodically by Bank staff and experts from UNICEF and WHO.
Appraisal was conducted in August-September 1975, and finalized details for
the following major components: (a) strengthening and expanding the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN, previously called the
Nutritiou Research Institute); (b) establishing a new Food Technology
Development Center (FTDC); (c) initiating a Nutrition Intervention Pilot
Project (NIPP) to test approaches for direct delivery of nutritioa services
in eight selected regencies; (d) developing a nutrition education (later
termed the communication and behavioral change) program; (e) manpower train-
ing; (f) preparing a natiowal food and nutrition program; and (g) setting up



a project monitoring and evaluatiou system. The project was presented in
March 1976 to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors for a preliminary
review, in accordauce with instructions governing "new projects with unique
or unusual features.'
2.04      The Bank's Board, while generally agreeing with the broad thrust of
the project -  iacluding its emphasis om institutional development, research,
and experimental activities -- emphasized the need for streagthening the
project's direct and indirect linkages with agricultural productivity and
production. The following activities were therefore added to the project:
(a) designing and testing food storage un!cs in 30 NIPP villages; (b)
initiating a program for iucreasing productivity by controlling nutritional
anemia on three publicly owned plantations; (c) technical assistance for the
Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU) in the Ministry of Agriculture, for developing
a capacity for analysis of food policy as it relates to nutrition; (d)
establishing home gardens in NIPP villages, to increase production of
vegetables and fruits for home consumption; and (e) training agricultural
extensioa staff in nutrition and horticulture.
2.05      The complex and multisectoral project thus produced was approved by
the Board on March 1, 1977. A loan for US$13.0 million was signed on March
14, and became effective a fortnight later. The scheduled completion date
stipulated in the Loan Agreement was March 31, 1981, thus giving a four year
implementation period. A mid-term report was scheduled for presentation to
the Board in two years; and loan closing was scheduled for March 31, 1982.
2.06      As described in the President's Report dated February 16, 1977,
project objectives and description were as noted below:
Objectives
(i)  strengthen and expand the existing nucleus of persnuel and
institutions for the formulation of nutritiou programs, opera-
tional research, manpower training, monitoring and evaluatiou;
(ii)  develop nationally replicable measures to improve the nutri-
tional status of malnourished target groups; and
(iii)  assist in the formulation of a more comprehensive food and
nutrition program on a national scale.
Description
(i) Strengthen iastitutional capacities:



-4-
(a) Expand the Center for Research and Development in
Nutrition (CRDN) under the Ministry of Health
through the provision of funds for additional
staff, training, technical assistance. necessary
equipment, and a modest expansiom of physical
facilities.
(b)  Strengtheu the Food Tecbnology Development Center
(FTDC) at the Agricultural University, Bogor,
with provisiom of funds for facilities, equip-
meat, technical assistance and staff.
(c)  Improve the plannuig, coordination and evaluation
of nutrition activities through technical
assistance to the Ministries of Bealth, Education
and Agriculture.
(ii) Direct Nutrition Actiou Programs:
(d)  Initation of a Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
(UFPP) through the provision of funds for additional
staff, trainiug, technical assistance, buildings, equip-
ment and materials. These programs would provide
nutrition, education, agricultural, health and food
supplementatio  services to those people mot affected by
manourishsent in 180 villages of seven districts with a
population of approximately 740,000.
(e) Increase production of nutritious vegetables and
fruits in about 18,000 bomelvillage gardews by
provision of improved seeds, development of model
garden packages and intensification of extension
efforts.
(f) Improve food storage at village level through assistance
to the Food Techuology Development Center which would, in
collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture develop
an appropriate small-scale storage program.
(g)  Initiate an iron supplementation program under the
National Institute for Industrial Hygiene and
Occupational Bealth to tackle nutritional anemia among
3,000 families in a selected number of plantations with a
view to developing a national program to cover all
government and privately owned plantations.
(iii) Education and Training:
(h) Develop and test alternative nutrition communication
methods to bring about desirable changes in nutritionL
behavior.



(i)  Upgrade and expand the training of nutritionists in the
Academy of Nutrition at Jakarta by provisiou of
equipment, staff aud necessary physical facilities.
(j)  Improve the traiuing of agricultural extension staff by
introducing nutrition in the curriculum of the basic
traiuing centers and the secondary agricultural schools
of the Agency for Education, Training and Exteusion.
(iv) National Food and Nutrition Plan:
(k) Provide techuical services for the formulation of a
national food and nutrition program iucorporating the
most effective elements of the nutrition activities
initiated under the proposed project.
2.07      The breakdown of total project cost of US$26.0 million aud Bank
loam of US$13.0 million was as tabulated below:
A. Estimated Project Cost by Coponueut/Activities
Center for Research and Development in Nutrition (CEDN) $5.9 a
Food Technology Development Center (FTDC)                 $5.5 m
Direct Nutrition Action Programs                          $3.5 m
Nutrition Education                                       $1.0 m
Nutrition Training                                        $1.7 a
Organization and Mbnagement                               $1.0 a
Formulation of National Food and Nutrition Program        $0.2 m
Physical Contingencies                                    $1.2 a
Price Contingencies                                       $6.0 a
Total Project Cost                                    $26.0 m
B. Loan Allocation by Expenditure Categories
Amount         Percentage
Civil Works                     $6.0 a              46%
Vehicles and Equipment          $3.0 m              23%
Technical Assistance            $3.0 a              23Z
Unallocated                     $1.0 m               8%
Total Loan                  $13.0 a             100%



- 6 -
2.08      The management of each component was to be carried out through
existing organizational channels of the Government of Iudonesia. (See Annex
1 for organizational chart of project arrangements). Briefly, project
organizatiom and management was to be as follows: (a) a part-time Project
Director in the Ministry of Health responsible for overall coordiuation and
implementation, assisted by a full-time Project Secretariat (with a Project
Manager - later called Executive Secretary, a Deputy Project Manager -
later Deputy Executive Secretary, a Finauce Officer and a Procurement
Officer), and further assisted by a full-time management adviser for two
years, a procurement adviser, and planning consultants; (b) three Project
Co-Directors, one each from the Ministries of Education (MOE), Agriculture
(NOA), and Home Affairs (MHA); (c) a separate Mouitoring and Evaluatiou Unit
(NEU) reporting directly to the Project Director; (d) the CRDN and FTDC
administered by their respective Directors, assisted by special finance and
procurement officers; (e) an interagency Research and Coordinating Committee;
(f) the NIPP component administered by a national level NIPP Coordinator
within MHR, reporting to the Project Director, and assisted by suitable
staff; (g) NIPP administration at the provincial and kabupaten levels by the
Nutrition Improvement Coordinating Committees, reporting to the Provincial
Governors and Bupatis respectively; (h) anemia prevention and control
administered in the field by the National Institute for Industrial Hygiene
and Occupational Health, through the respective regional iustitutes under the
Ministry of Manpower, Transmigratiou and Cooperatives, in close collaboratiou
with MOA and MOH, (i) training and nutrition education by the Center for
Manpower Education and Training in MOH; (j) civil works by the engineering
division of MOH; and (k) preparation of a national food and nutrition program
by the Project Director, assisted by the MEU, in close collaboration with
CRDN, FTDC, the planning bureaus of MOH aud MOA, the FNU, and BAPPENAS.
nI.  PROJECr INPLEHENThflON
3.01      Project implementation is discussed below in two parts. Section III
gives an overview of the general activities undertaken in support of
virtually all componuents, and discusses the problems faced during 1977-79;
and Section IV reviews project accomplishments by component, up to cheir
completiou in March 2L983.
3.02      Project Start-up.  Budgetary and management problems emerged soon
after loan effectivenLess, primarily because this was the first Bank-assisted
project in the Ministry of Health and project staff were inexperienced in
managing a large foreign-funded multisectoral project. Time was needed for
mastering GOI procedures for budget release, Bank procedures for disbursement



aud procurement, and organizational procedures for inter-agency coordina-
tion. A devaluation of the rupiah by about 50% in November 1978 added to the
burden, by necessitatiug renegotiatiom of civil works contracts and retender-
Lug for equipment and supplies. Technical assistance from advisers and
cousultauts, which was supposed to fill the experience-gap and to provide
the needed professional support, also got delayed. The start-up period was
thus stretched to elmost two years. By March 31, 1979 - the mid-point of
the expected four year implementation period - only $100,000 was disbursed,
against an appraisal estimate of $1.9 milliou.
3.03      Budgetary Procedures and Disbursements.  GOI's budgetary regula-
tious and procedures were a source of many problems. Since the various
project componuets were being implemented through different ministries, each
component manager had to become adept at anticipating and overcoming pro-
cedural bottlenecks. Three examples are given below. First, the development
budget (DIP) for the project had two parts - DIP Murni (expeuditures
financed only out of GOI funds), and DIP Supplement (expenditures financed by
GOI but reimbursed by the Bank) - and the percentages of the total allocated
to the two DIPs had to exactly match the disbursement percentages detailed In
the Loan Agreement. Failure to achieve such matching resulted in time-
consuming discussions between BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance, Bank of
Indonesia, the project management and component heads. The original DIPs for
1977-78 did not match, and the process of revision was not completed until
February 1978, reflecting the complexity of procedures and inexperience of
project staff.  The problem recurred in 1978-79.  In addition, the arrange-
meuts made by the Ministry of Finaace for pre-financing the DIP Supplement
were fouud to be complicated aad time conLsuming. As a result, no major
project activity could be financed during the first year of implementation;
and no withdrawal applications were submitted to the Balk that year for
reimbursement.
3.04      Second, carryover funds could only be used after a specific
authorization letter was issued; and this could not be done until after the
DIPs for the current financial year -- which t0hamselves were delayed by 3 to
6 months -  had been approved. Third, subsequeat to the devaluation of the
rupiah, prices rose sharply but contracts could not be renegotiated until
BAPPENAS had issued iustructions ou how cost-escalation was to be worked out,
and this took time. When the instructions were finally issued, even though
prices of building materials bad risen by about 80% and gasoline by 37%, GOI
agreed to raise contract values by only 38%; and this was not satisfactory to
contractors who either slowed down or stopped work altogether.
3.05      It was only after intensive discussions between Bank staff, project
annagement, and officials of the Ministry of Finance and BAPPENAS that
government simplified some budgetary regulations and permitted greater flexi-
bility in. others. By 1979, project staff became familiar with Bank



procurement procedures and GOI civil works contracting. BAPPENAS officials
chaired regular meetings of the project finance officers and helped reduce
the lag in submitting withdrawal applications (in early 1979, for instance,
$1.5 million had been reimbursable but had not been applied for). From
1980 onwards, although procedural delays due to the general budgetary
regulations remained, project-specific problems were substantially over-
come. Disbursements rose sharply from $1.5 million in June 1980 to $3.9
million a year later, and to $7.0 million by June 1982 (Annex 2). The loan
account was finally closed on August 25, 1983, eighteen months behind
schedule, with $12.66 million disbursed and the unspent balance of $337,500
cancelled.
3.06      Organization and MPnagement.  Problems of project administration
stemmed from a variety of factors, including the following: project com-
plexity and the need for multi-agency coordination (due partly to board
add-on, see paras. 2.04 and 6.02), inexperienced staff, delays in appoint-
ing consultants, and the organizational status of the Project Secretariat.
Bank missions noted in 1978-79 that 'the complexity of the project demanded
that the staff of the secretariat function as a team, be fully familiar
with aLl project aspects, devote full time to the project, and work closely
with component officers in Jakarta and in the provinces.- However, despite
repeated recommendations that project officials interact more fully and
frequently with component staff and officers of various ministries and
BAPPENAS, inter-departmental coordination remained weak throughout project
implementation.
3.07      The major problem during the crucial early years was weak
leadership: a part-time Project Director loaded with other responsibilities
and having limited time, and a relatively junior Executive Secretary who
could not provide the forceful leadership essential for a multisectoral
project. The Project Secretariat - despite appraisal recommendations to
the contrary -  was not integrated with the Ministry of Health, could only
hire staff on fixed-term contracts, was unable to match the salaries
prevalent in the open market, did not attract qualified senior civil
servants, and did not receive its own budgetary allocations (DIPS). In
addition, the monitoring and evaluation unit, necessary for a project with
experimental activities, was not adequately staffed for over two yers
despite repeated assurances given to visiting Bank missions; and
recruitment of advisers was delayed until 1979 due to strong political
opposition to hiring highly paid expatriate consultants.
3.08      Most of these problpms were resolved just prior to the mid-term
review, after considerable follow-up by Bank staff. A number of corrective
actions were taken, the most important being the following: the Deputy
Executive Secretary replaced the former Executive Secretary who was trans-
ferred; an economist was hired for the monitoring and evaluation unit; a
local firm of management consultants was hired to conduct a management
audit, design the monitoring system, and provide planning advice; a new



-9-
Director of Nutrition was appointed in MOR and was given the concurrent
responsibility for coordinating the NIPP component; the initeragency
coordinating committee was re-established by WAPPENAS; the Project
Director, who was also assigned the responsibilities of Project Manager,
was instructed by the Minister of Health to give higher priority to solving
implementation problems; expatriate consultants were appointed for procure-
ment, finance, and overall project management; the Nutrition Directorate
was reorganized to absorb the Project Secretariat and MEU; and in the
field, component agencies started cooperating actively after regency
administrators and provinccial governors began taking direct interest in
the project. As a result of these changes, project management Improved
considerably, and implementation progress was relatively rapid after 1980.
3.09      Civil Works and Procurement.  As mentioned in para. 2.07, $6.0
million was allocated for civil works, and $3.0 million for procurement of
vehicles and equipment. Preparation of architectural drawings, design
specifications, cost estimates, and invitations to bid were to be completed
early in 1977, in the hope that construction could begin by May 1977 and be
completed by June 30, 1979. GOI procedures for bidd:ng, construction,
contract control, and general and on-site supervision were to be used,
following the practices of the Ministry of Works. Procurement was to be
undertaken in accordance with standard Bank and GOI regulations, as
specified in the loan agreement.
3.10      Contract documentation was in fact prepared according to
schedule, but because of budgetary problems already mentioned the contracts
for civil works were nct awarded until August 1978, and for provision of
fittings and utilities a few months later. Furthermore, construction
contracts had to be renegotiated after the devaluation of the rupiah, and
procurement of equipment had to be retendered. Construction activities
fell behind appraisal schedules by about one year, and equipment
procurement and provision of serieie (including gas, electricity, water)
by almost two years. By aid-1979, even though construction of CRDN and
FTDC buildings had started, no payments had been made to contractors. The
payment of $50,000 towards retroactive financing of consultant architects
was also held up for two years after the work was completed, largely due to
delays in contract finalization. As a result, virtually all other project
components were correspondingly delayed, and sequencing and scheduling of
activities had to be revised several times.
3.11      Procurement committees were particularly slow in bid evaluation;
and by the time government approval was obtained, price validity periods
were generally exceeded, providing suppliers an easy excuse for not
maintaining prices. Despite the resultant price increases, however, total
costs remained well below the provisions made in the loan agreement,
primarily because BAPPENAS had sanctioned expenditures for buildings



- 10 -
Constructed to lesser architectural standards than those assumed in the
Appraisal report. This, together with the offects of devaluation, resulted
in considerable savings, which were then utilized for additiontal buildings
and equipment, including a new Nutrition Assistants Training Center sanc-
tioned in 1981 as part of a general loar reallocation exercise.
3.12      Technical Assistance.  Since one of the primary aims of the
project was strengthening institutions and personnel capabilities, $3.0
million out of loar funds was allocated for consultant's services, fellow-
ships and salaries of local experts. Assistarce from expatriate and
Indonesian consultants was expected to help virtually all project
components in setting up systems for planning, monitoring and control.
Consultants were also to be hired for technical design and development
work, especially for CRDN, FTDC and NIPP. Fellowships of varying
durations, both local and foreigr., were meant to upgrade the technical
competerce of staff at all levels. Roughly equal amounts were allocated
for consultants and fellowships, but the funds for techical assistance were
spread out according to need over the various project components.
3.13      There were initial delays of one to two years ir arrargirg
fellowships and lorg term training, partly due to inappropriate and rigid
procedures for obtainring Bank approval (see para. 6.06). However, orce
satisfactory procedures were established, progress was smooth ard appraisal
targets were met. Twenty-four of CRDN's staff members received long term
training (3 Ph.D, 19 MS, and 2 BS), and only three persons failed to
acquire the degree attempted. Twenty-three staff members from FTDC earred
their degrees or diplomas (4 Ph.D, 16 MS, 3 BS and 14 diplomas). Personnel
from other components such as Nutrition Commurication and Behavioral Change
(NCBC), NIPP and the Project Secretariat also availed themselves of
fellowships, as envisaged ir the appraisal report.  Most lorg-term training
was urdertaken in Irdoresia, due to various factors:  difficulties in
securing admission to foreigr uriversities (because staff lacked pro-
ficiercy in English, and some degrees earned earlier in Indonesia were rot
recognized abroad), strict governmert regulations regardirg mirimum service
requirements prior to such training, and difficulties in obtaining leave of
absence from regular jobs.  A few fellowships were, however, undertaken
abroad -- in the Philippines, England, Holland, and the USA. Short-term
training was also received by a number of project staff, both locally and
abroad.
3.14      Of the 40 mar-years of consultants envisaged urder the project,
17 mar.-years were allotted for foreign experts. The latter were generally
difficult to obtain: senior consultants were rot available for long dura-
tior contracts, and negotiatiors and approvals took unduly long, partly due
to the low fee structure approved by BAPPENAS. As a result, most expatri-
ate consultarts, could only be hired during the secord half of the project,
and a rumber of consultants visited more than once, for shorL periods.
Local consultants, were also governed by GOI's ceilings or fees, were
easier to arrarge and were used wherever appropriate.



- 11 -
3.15      At CRDN, 19 consultants (including 2 or. long-tern contracts) pro-
vided over 30 man-months of service, helping to develop technical programs
arnd staff. At FTDC, 14 (mostly junior) consultants were hired for 85 man-
tnonths of work; but unexpected delays in the provision of infrastructure
and procurement of equipment forced a bunching of consultants during the
last years of implementation, thus reducing their overall contribution to
related project components.  At the Academy of Nutrition, 30 man-months of
consultants were used for manpower training, planning, and laboratory
research; and at the Project Secretariat, 84 man-months were used for
planning, procurement, and management.  In addition, short-term local and
foreigr. consultants were used for preparing a background policy paper which
served as the primary input for formulating a national food and nutrition
program for REPELITA IV.
3.16      Most of the consulting services obtained were found to be
relevant acd useful: over, two-thirds of the expatriate consultants came
from developing countries (notably India and the Philippines).  Four of
every five consultants to the FTDC, Academy of Nutrition, and project
secretariat were from developing countries, as were a third of those who
aided the CRDN. Irndonesian consultants were generally experienced and
knowledgeable about local conditiors ..d needs.  The scientific and techni-
cal calibre of consultants was high, and most of their recommendations have
been implemented, subject to limitations of fundirg.  Advice on field-
oriented systems improvement, primarily for monitoring and evaluation of
NIPP and anemia prevention and control was provided by a local cornsultant
group, and was very pragmatic and useful. Further refinements in the
system suggested by consultants are being made on the basis of field
experience, and should help improve the overall performance of direct-
action programs.
3.17      Loar Reallocatior..  In 1980 it was estimated that project activi-
ties would cost approximately $9.3 million less thar. the appraisal expecta-
tion. The cost reduction was mairly due to the 50% devaluation of the
rupiah, the use of lower construction standards, and the reduced use of
technical assistance. GOI officials suggested that the succeassful project
activities be expanded and some money be reallocated between expedi:ture
categories. Accordingly, a loan reallocation was done ir. January 1981. It
utilized the $4.9 millior. savings in loan funds, thus leaving a net savings
of $4.4 million ir. total project cost. No change in objectives or scope of
the project was required. Since the total project cost had gone down while
the loan amour-t remained the same, the loan as a percentage of total costs
went up from 50% at appraisal to 60%. An 18 month extension in the project
completion date was also approved.
3.18      Allocations for some components were increased by the following
amounts:  nutritional aremia pilot project by $1.3 million (for expanding
operations from 3,100 to 75,000 plantatior workers, including workers
covered by the Barnk-funded transmigration project); manpower training by
$2.0 million (for constructing a new four-story Nutritior. Training Center);



- 12 -
nutrition intervention pilot project by $1.0 million (to cover an addi-
tional 372 villages); and nutrition communication and behavioral change by
$0.6 million (for supply of newly designed communication materials). At
the same time, allocations for CRDN and FTDC were reduced by $4.4 million
and $2.2 million respectively, and minor reductions were made in the other
remaining components. As a result, the loan allocation for civil works
went down from $6.0 million to $3.5 million, while funds earmarked for
vehicles, equipment, and supplies went up from $3.0 million to $6.0
million. No changes were made in the percentages of expenditures finaced
in each category. The final project cost is estimated to be about US$22.0
million. Actual figures have not been compiled at any central accounting
office in KOH, partly because the various components were implemented by
different agencies who maintained their own accounting records.
3.19      Accounts and Audit.  Section 4.02(b) of the loan agreement stip-
ulated that all agencies participating in the project maintain separate
accounts for it, and that an accounting unit within NOH be responsible for
consolidating these accounts. Though such accounts were maintained, the
accounting procedure followed did not disaggregate expenditures by source
of funds (DIP Murni, DIP Supplement and Direct Payments). After several
requests by Bank missions, a uniform reporting format was circulated to all
concerned finance officers, and accounting practices were improved.
3.20      Despite this progress, annual audit reports were considerably
delayed (see Annex 3 on compliance with loan covenants). Section 3.05(d)
of the loan agreement required that these audit reports be furnished to the
Bank within 6 months of the close of each fiscal year, but the first certi-
fied reports were submitted only in 1981 - after the Bank insisted that
the loan allocation be made conditional upon receipt of the pending
audits. The delays were apparently traceable to a procedural omission:
while DIP Nurni accounts were routinely audited by state auditors, special
instructions were needed for auditing the DIP Supplement as well. However,
even after this oversight was corrected reports for subsequent years were
delayed by 1 to 2 years.
IV. PROJC A        LISUNHNTS
4.01      A mid-term report was submitted to the Board in June 1980 (para.
2.05). The project was also evaluated comprehensively in July 1982 by an
independent team of internationally renowned nutrition experts. Their
report (see Summary and Recommendations attached as Annex 4), the
Government's own analysis of the project, and various other studies and
docunents have been used for arriving at the assessments given below.
Since initial difficulties in construction, procurement, technical
assistance, and organization and management were -ommon to all components
and have already been reviewed in Section III, these issues are not dealt
with again. Instead, the discussion highlights the major objectives and
accomplishments of each project component.



- 13 -
A. Institution Building
4.02      Three institutions ware supported under the project -- the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN), the Food Technology
Development Center (FTDC), and the Academy of Nutrition (AN). Funds were
provided for civil works, equipment, staff, training, and technical
assistance_  Most of the physical an' cuantitative targets set at appraisal
have been met or exceeded, though delayed by the administrative constraints
discussed earlier. The three institutions have contributed to the
project's direct-action programs; and are now helping other government
agencies (primarily ;he Ministries of Health, Education and Agriculture,
BAPPENAS, and the centr-al Nutrition Working Group) in planning and evaluat-
ing nutrition-related programs at the national level.
4.03      Center for Research and Development in Nutrition.  CRDN's
research was expected to be applied and interdisciplinary, focusing on
evaluation of the integrated nutrition intervention program, investigation
of foods with high nutritional value, and studies leading to general recom-
mendations for strategies to improve nutritional status. The Center has
undertaken a number of studies on NIPP, includlng the baseline data survey
in 1977, the follow-up three years later, the technical design of data
collection procedures for monitoring NIPP, and an assessment of their
suitability for nationwide use. Other studies include evaluation of the
following: the government's basic model UPGK program in 21 kabupatens of 6
provinces, the nutrition component o' primary health care, and the nutri-
tion anemia control pilot project. The quality of these studies has been
variable.
4.04      Strengthening the nutrition research center was a slow process,
requiring major technical assistance from foreign consultants. The center
is now considered the best of Indonesia's five medical research institutes
and the work of some of its staff meets international standards. But CRDN
is not yet consistently capable of evaluating nutrition work effectively
enough to be useful for the planning agency; that is one of the disappoint-
ments of the project. In short, the CEDN has made great gains in five
years and now has facilities, equipment, and most other prerequisites to
meet international standards but has yet to regularly achieve that level.
4.05      Now that project inputs (facilities, equipuent, staff) are in
place, CRDN's research activities can be expected to expand in the future.
However, since staff is already thinly spread over several concurrent
investigations, increased selectivity in accepting research requests and in
determining the Center's work program is needed, so that scarce profes-
sional resourcesL and funds are used only for high-priority nationally
significant research. Greater emphasis on socio-economic analysLs of
alternative nutr-lton strategies and on monitoring of existing programs -
both of which were key project objectives for CRDN -- is also warranted.



- 14 -
4.06      Food Technology Development Center.  FTDC's specific functions
under the project were the following: to serve as the main source of
information and advice on appropriate village-level food technology;
provide training for food technologists and extensionists; ide;xtify
problems and opportunities associated with food conservation, preservation
and processing; advise the government on food and nutrition issues; and
support the education and research programs of its parent organization, the
Bogor-Agricultural University under the Ministry of Educatior.. Most of
these functions have been satisfactorily performed, although after con-
siderable initial delay.  Built with project funds, FTDC now has a highly
qualified staff of 84 (including 9 Ph.Ds and 10 with Masters degrees), a
modern well-equipped laboratory and pilot plant, and good library and
documentation fcilities. Consultants, both long and short-term, have
helped the Center formulate and execute reseach and development activities,
and train staff. Also, senior staff of FTDC have fulfilled their teaching
obligations to the Bogor Agricultural University.
4.07      The Center's involvement with the project's direct-action activi-
ties has been very useful. Baseline surveys were conducted in NIPP areas
to collect information on food production, storage, eating habits and unmet
nutritional needs. The data were then used for designing and testing
several cereal-legume based recipes (BMC) for supplementary feeding and
weaning of malnourished children in the NIPP areas. Equipment for village
level formulation and storage of BMC was designed, fabricated and tested;
after which a private manufacturing firm was licensed to produce and supply
the equipment to NIPP areas. Although the size of BMC units is reported to
be too large -- somethirg the Ministry of Agricultur' extension agents
should have pointed out at the pilot stage - and the quality of the
equipment is uneven, several hundred units have been installed and are
reportedly in use.
4.08      The development of improved food storage structures at the
village level was also undertaken, and these were introduced in NIPP
villages through two workshops organized in January 1979 and May 1980. In
addition, small-scale rural industries have been promoted, keeping in view
the infrastructure, logistics, credit, and other facilities available in
NIPP areas.  Prototype equipment has beer desigred and tested for improved
processing of cassava flour, fruit juices, legumes, and egg and banana
products; and the transfer of technology has been carried out through
demonstration, training, information booklets and manuals, and village
level workshops. At the central level, FTDC has participated in the prepa-
ration of a strategy for national and village level food security, has
collaborated with BKKBN in developing ar integrated package of nutrition
and family planning services, and has helped set national standards on
foods and beverages.



- 15 -
4.09      As in the case of CRDN, construction and procurement problems were
the major conuitraints, and recruitment and proper use of consultants and
staff was difficult uantil laboratory and pilot equipment was installed and
chemicals were available. Inadequate intersectoral coordination with the
Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) extension wing has been the second source of
reduced effectiveness, especially in developing and transferring appropriate
technology. (This could now improve, since FTDC's Director has concurrently
been appointed Special Adviser to MOA). Having invested about US$5.5 million
in setting up the FTDC, the goverament should provide sufficient funds for
staffing (including the hiring of extension workers), maintenance, and other
operational requirements of the Center. Also, in order to maintain the
FTDC's focus on field operations rather thau on academic teaching and
research, its autonomy within the Bogor Agricultural University should be
safeguarded .
4.10      Nutrition Manpower Training.  It was envisaged at appraisal that
with the expansion of facilities and staff the Academy of Nutrition would
double its student intake to 200 and produce 60 graduates annually (three
times the number in 1977). These targets have been met: student enrollment
is close to 200 and the Academy should turn out 80 to 100 graduates a year by
1986. Faculty recruitment, provision of scholarships to students, expansion
of physical infrastructure, and curricula reform (to emphasize community
nutrition and field work iu rural areas), have all been undertaken as
planned. To upgrade the teaching competence of new faculty (most of whom
were receut Academy graduates), staff development was given high priority.
As a result, two faculty members earned their Ph.Ds, seven got Masters
degrees, 12 more received short-term training, and an average of 12 per year
obtained 2 to 3 months in-service trainuig at CRDN and the General Hospital
in Jakarta. The Academy's nutrition program relies heavily on field work, is
considered one of the best in Asia, and is now attracting students from
neighboring countries.
4.11      Efforts have also been made to upgrade the skills of middle level
nutrition workers. The government currently plans to cover some 65,000
villages under UPGK during REPELITA IV (see Anuex 4 for background
information on UPGK), thus creating a much greater demand for nutritionists
than was envisaged under the project. To overcome the resu'ltant shortfall of
trained graduates, GOI decided in 1980 to use trained assistant nutritionists
at the field level. Reallocated project fuads have therefore been used to
modify the Nutrition High School (which was giving three years training to
Junior High School graduates) into a School for Assistant Nutritionists, with
one year's training given to Senior High School graduates. The Assistaut
Nutritionists so produced, plus the graduates of three to four similar
schools being planned, and the Health Center workers being given short-term
training in nutrition are expected to help meet current manpower needs.  In



- 16 -
addition, the Ministry of Health has assessed the total manpower needs for
REPELITA IV (1984-89) and beyond (up to the year 2000), so that additional
training facilities can be built in advance. The project has also funded
programs for upgrading the skills of trainers, and these have apparently
been very useful.
B. Direct Nutrition Action Programs
4.12      Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP).  The largest action
program was an intensive version of the UPGK known as NIPP or UPGK-plus;
designed to test new ways of delivering nutrition and health services to
children under the age of three and pregnant and lactating women. The NIPP
was a field test of a range of community nutrition intrventions (growth
monitoring, oral rehydration, nutrition education with emphasis on breast-
feeding and weaning foods, home village gardens designed to increase
production of nutrititious fruits and vegetables, and small-scale food
processing and food storage, along with immunication and, in selected
areas, family planning), with the intention that some combination might
later be integrated into a national nutrition strategy.
4.13      The initial objective of NIPP was to provide a processed nutri-
tious product made from locally grown foods (BMC) to malnourished children
and pregnant and lactating women. Village volunteers (Kaders) would
monitor the growth of pre-school children, distribute food to those who
were not growing adequately, and provide nutrition education to their
mothers. The program was to begin in two kabupatens in the first year (the
major subdivision of provinces in Indonesia), expand to two more in the
second, and after a mid-project review, add three more by the fourth year.
That schedule was followed, but with Bank agreement the program was
extended to. 43% more villages than the 258 planned. Overall, over 200,000
persons have directly benefited, 800 village level nutrition centers have
been established, and more than 2,000 cadres conducted nutrition education
and other activities.
4.14      Poor management at all levels and an unwieldy monitoring system
considerably hampered early execution of the program. The mid-project
evaluation recommended several substantial changes, and by the summer of
1982 significant progress had been made in resolving many of the project's
problems. A team of Ministry of Health and UNICEF consultants concluded
that NIPP-type short-term rehabilitative feeding, targeted to children who
fail to gain weight for three consecutive months and using prepackaged BMC,
was preferable to approaches used in other government nutrition programs.
In early 1983, the NIPP approach was adopted for the major government
programs.
I .



- 17 -
4.15      The NIPP program has demonstrated the operational feasibility of
a village-based nutrition rehabilitation effort, managed by the community
kaders supervised by health center staff and using locally produced
processed food to rehabilitate seriously malnourished children. It has
developed a monitoring and reporting system, portions of which are being
introduced into the national program. And it has established the value of
a field laboratory to test new operational ideas.
4.16      Home and Village Gardens.  The HVG component was expected to
promote home gardens in 18,000 village homes (100 per NIPP village), and to
establish with the help of community efforts on community land, one seed
farm and model fruit and vegetable garden in each NIPP village. The
component was to use ten agricultural extension workers for assisting 10-15
contact farmers in each village, who in turn were to train 7 to 10
neighbors. A special GOI grant of about $4.50 per family was provided
annually for the first three years (1977-80) for seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides and routine agricultural implements.
4.17      The program started in 1977-78 with 1,800 village homes, made
steady progress until 1980-81 when it covered 12,000 homes, but then
declined to 6,600 homes the following year. The major problems were
uncertainties of GOI funding (sanctioned on an ad hoc year-to-year basis),
and weak coordination (especially after 1980) between the agricultural
extension workers and RIPP field staff. The appraisal report's stipulation
that assitance be provided to the 100 poorest farmers in each village also
proved infeasible since most poor farmers in this category had little land
around their homes. Similarly, since most villages had insufficient
community land for starting a village seed farm, and no provisiion was made
at appraisal (or subsequently) for renting private land for this purpose,
progress was considerably less than expected. It seems the project's VHG
component, was apparently overshadowed by a similar but larger
UNICEF-supported program under UPGK, which was apparently better
coordinated at the national and local levels.
4.18     An evaluation conducted by a private consulting firm in early 1982
concluded that an objective assessment of the impact and efficiency of EVG
was impossible, primarily because no baseline survey had been done and no
data on inputs (fertilizer, insecticide, etc.), and outputs (increased pro-
duction of fruits and vegetables) was available. However, there was subjec-
tive evidence that home gardens provided about 20% of the family income in
some areas, and participants reported higher yields, adopted improved meth-
ods, and had more area under home gardens than did non-participants. How-
ever, it was difficult for many farmers to perceive the advantages of the



- 18 -
home gardens since yield increases were small and land devoted to vegetables
was limited. In the case of seed gardens, a few of which were created,
recurrent costs of maintenance and supervision were excessive. (In contrast,
under the UPGK program no special village seed gardens were created; instead,
government contracted with farmers in the village to grow seed and then
purchased and distributed these to other villagers). The agricultural exten-
sion workers who were to have been trained in horticulture and nutrition and
seconded to the project's HVG component remained uminvolved in what they
perceived as peripheral responsibilities.
4.19      Anemia Prevention and Control Pilot Project.  This component had
the following objectives: reduce nutritional anemia on three government
plantations by providing iron-fortified salt and iron pills to 3,000 workers;
reduce hookworm infestation by providing medication, boots and latrines; and
assess the overall cost-benefits of a delivery system suitable for large
scale application. Based on preliminary results of the pilot project, the
practice of iron supplementation has spread spontaneously, and now covers
over 300,000 workers and their families in 11 government and 10 private
plantations. Productivity and income gains vary from one plantation to
another, and might be as high as 7% in some cases. In the absence of strict
monitoring of results and of methodologically sound evaluation studies, it is
difficult to accurately assess the reduction in iron anemia or hookworm in-
festation, but some studies indicate that 70-75Z of the target population is
now free from these ailments.  The delivery system for iron-supplementation
has proven effective, and its further expansion is definitely feasible.
4.20      Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change.  The nutrition edu-
cation component, aimed at molding nutritional behavior, initially was to be
implemented in 60 villages in five kabupatens, one of them a NIPP area. The
first two years of the program were a preparatory phase, devoted to infra-
structure-building, selective training of village volunteers (kaders),
administrative preparation, and setting up a growth-monitoring program. The
next year was used to test concepts - households, each including a pregnant
or lactating woman or a mother of a malnourished child, met individually with
interviewers to agree on a set of dietary modifications that the family then
tried out. This trial step helped the nutrition education team determine
what precisely the program should aim to do - for example, introduce a home-
made weaning food - and tne best media and methods for doing it - for
example, posters for the kaders that mothers were asked to mark every time
they performed a prescribed action, or radio spots in dialogue format, using
the mothers' own words.
4.21      One year after the communication strategy went into operation, an
evaluation of program and comparison areas showed that the target kaders had
learned the program messages and had more specific advice to offer than
kaders in other nutrition education programs in comparison areas; they were



- 19 -
devoting on average nearly 14 hours per month to nutrition work compared to
less than 7 hours by workers in comparison areas. In project villages, 67%
of households had been visited by a nutrition kader, in comparison villages
44%; project village mothers averaged 47% correct recall on nutrition
messages, comparison mothers 28%.
4.22      After four years of project operation and a year of intense edu-
cation activity, an evaluation of households confirmed trends of improve-
ment in the nutritional status of mothers and children in the project
areas. At all ages mean weights for program children were higher than for
comparison children, and at 24 months of age there was a highly significant
difference of half a standard deviation between the mean weights. There
were half as many moderately and severely malnourished children (those less
than 75Z of median weight-for-age) in the program group. These differences
in nutritional status were seen not only across the entire sample but also
in each geographic region.
4.23      Detailed evaluation of the component has indicated that the
difference in nutritional status can be attributed to the program rather
than to schooling level or other fators. Women applied the knowledge thus
gained to feeding their children more of the recommended foods. In program
areas 87% of the children consumed more than half of the recommended
calorie intake and 82% of the children consumed more than half of the
recommended protein intake; for children in the comparison sample, the
figures were 62 and 60%, respectively.
4.24      The effectiveness of specific messages was demonstrated, the
strongest correlation being between knowing and preparing the weaning food
that is important to the nutritional status of five-to-eight month infants
at a crucial time in their development.
4.25      The project appears to have overcome one of the largest con-
straints to improved nutrition, the level of the mother's education.
Children's nutritional status was determined less by the level of maternal
education for children in the target group than for those in the comparison
sample.
4.26      This was the most successul of the field programs, the success
attributable to thorough research, a carefully conceptualized media
strategy, good implementation of the initial phase, and evaluation from the
outset. The program had a demonstrably positive effect on the nutritional
status of the target population. It provided only nutrition education,
utilizing a combination of personal and mass-media ccntacts. Technical
assistance was vital to the development of this component. The government
has announced its intention of using the messages and media strategy in its
national program.



- 20 -
C. National Nutrition Policy
4.27      Two small but vital components of the project focused on national
nutrition policy issues: the Research Coordinating Committee provided over-
sight of research ca,nducted primarily by the CRDN and FTDC, and the Food and
Nutrition Unit (FNU) examined the larger question of integrating nutritional
issues with GOI's agricultural policies.
4.28      Research Coordinating Committee.  This Committee was officially
established by the P-oject Director on September 1, 1977, and consisted of
senior experts from various national iustitutes, centers and ministries. The
Directors of CRDN and FTDC chaired the Committee by rotation, and the first
few meetings were devoted largely to identifying its role and decision making
authority with re-pect to specific research programs undertaken by the two
Centers. The smooth functioning of the Committee was easier to achieve when
the Center directors were in agreement, and for matters that did not need
sanction from their respective ministries (CRDN was under MOH, while FTDC was
within the University of Bogor, under NOE.) However, since the research
programs and priorities of the two centers were not clearly articulated, and
the Committee lacked hierarchical authority over the two Centers to enforce a
common research strategy, its effectiveness was severely limited.
4.29      Despite this general problem, some activities were undertaken
enthusiastically by Committee members: research reviews were compiled in two
successive annnual reports (for 1979-81), and members participated actively in
national workshops and seminars attended by Indonesian and foreign nutrition
experts. These forums, arranged as often as four times during some years,
provided regular opportunities to influence and shape the content of a
national food and nutrition policy, and have proven very useful.
4.30      Food and Nutrition Unit.  A small FNU was set up in 1969 within the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) tc advise GOI on steps needed for increasing
food production, improv'%ng the quality of diets, studying the effects of
economic and social factors on human food consumption, and coordinating MOA's
nutritionl activities witn those of other ministries. In 1975 a 12 member
team of MOA officials was made responsible for these tasks on a part-time
basis and in 1977 the project proposed strengthening the FNU with technical
assistance from a nutrition planner, a food economist and a data analyst,
along with in-service training and fellowships for MOA staff.
4.31      Despite these good intentions, the FNU remained a skeletal unit
until 1979, primarily due to insufficient interest in the Ministry of
Agriculture, lack of leadership and trained staff, and inadequate authority
to carry out its assignment. Its "coordination' activities were initielly
confined to collecting data on food supply. However, following a visit in
1980 to India by officials from the Ministries of Health, Agriculture and
Interior, there has been an increased awareness of the benefits of inter-
sectoral planning of nutrition policy. Two senior staff members were sent



- 21 -
for training to the International Food Policy Research Institute in
Washington, D.C., and are now back at the FNU. An intersectoral Training
Workshop on Food and Nutrition Planning was also held in February 1983, with
major technical inputs from the Unit. Assisted by consultants, the FNU has
recently completed a study of major food production, consumption and
nutrition problems in Indonesia, and has proposed strategies to overcome
them. This study has formed the basis for recommending food and nutrition
policies for REPELITA IV.
V. PROJECr IMPACT
5.01      Most project components, considered separately, have achieved or
exceeded appraisal targets; taken together, their benefits are substantial,
and extend far beyond the immediate activities of the project. In general,
the project had a catalytic effect on sectoral activities; and its greatest
benefit has been the considerable interest generated in nutrition related
issues, at all levels of society. This sharpening of focus on nutritional
problems and on broad-based action needed to overcome them, led the
government to include a national food and nutrition chapter in REPELITA III
and IV. The policy objectives now being finalized are likely to be
implemented through an ongoing nationwide program - an expanded basic UPGK
incorporating aspects of NIPP - possibly supplemented by a Bank-funded
follow-on nutrition project curently under preparation.
5.02      The support institutions needed for long term research, technology
development, and training (namely CRDN, FTDC, and the Academy of Nutrition
respectively) have already been established under the project. The work of
some of CRDN's staff meets international standards; but the Center has not
yet established an economic and social studies unit on the scale envisaged
(partly due to its difficulty in attracting economists), thus limiting its
role as a bridge between the scientists and government planning groups such
as BAPPENAS. The FTDC has performed better: it is perhaps the first major
facility in the world devoted largely to village-level food technology, and
has well-trained and highly-motivated staff. Similarly, the Nutrition
Academy has now developed an international reputation, and most of its
training objectives have been met. The main manpower gap at this stage is at
the field management and supervision level, for which additional training
centers are being planned. In the Ministry of Agriculture, only a small
fraction of the technical assistance envisioned for the Food and Nutrition
Unit was utilized; a strong analytic unit has yet to be developed.
5.03      The institution-building strategy included a sizable training and
technical assistance elements to broaden capacity to plan and operate
programs. Training has covered a broad range of skills and sophistication.
In Indonesia, for example, the head of nutrition in the national planning
agency was completing a Ph.D. in nutrition planning at the same time village
kaders were learning about nutrition education. The project also funded 24
long-term fellowships and 180 short-course grants for technical specialists,
training of kader supervisors, and training of nutritionists. Indonesia's



- 22 -
Nutrition Academy, whose facilities and staff were improved, has increased
its annual number of nutritionist graduates from 60 to 200 and outside
evaluators have praised the quality of their preparation. A uational
staffing plan for nutrition, developed in the project to accompany the fourth
National Development Plan, is being implemented on schedule. (The drafting
of the food and nutrition chapters of the plan was the responsibility of the
officer mentioned above who received his doctorate under the project. Upon
receiving his degree, he was given responsibility for both health and
nutrition in the national planning agency.)
5.04      Two studies have been undertaken comparing the experience of
children in the NIPP villages to those in the basic UPGK program before it
was modified to incorporate certain features included in NIPP. In one, NIPP
children started lower in nutrition status than those in UPGK but showed
marginally greater improvement in growth, reaching the same levels by the end
of the study. The study shows that NIPP children participated in the program
to a greater extent (for example, attending an average of 23 weighing
sessions in 25 months compared to 18 for the basic UPGK group), and that
there was greater change in knowledge and behavior. Interestingly, the
average education level of the NIPP mothers was lower than basic UPGK
mothers.
5.05      The other study showed that the portion of children under three who
were judged -well-aourished' (based on weight-for-height standards) rose from
39 to 44 percent in West Lombok (compared to an unchanging 43 percent in
basic UPGK comparison villages) and from 36 to 46 percent in Bojonegoro
(compared to an increase from 47 to 48 percent in basic UPGK villages).
However, as best as can be judged, nutritional impact varied from area to
area; in Bojonegoro, the results showed that local leadership had been more
committed and active than in West Lombok.
5.06      NIPP has produced several techniques and activities that are being
introduced into an expanded national program, e.g., the NIPP monitoring and
reporting system, a village-based rehabilitative effort use of locally
processed foods. The project's supplementary feeding approach will become
the standard for all other programs. Also, the Government has adopted the
NIPP concept of village laboratories' to test new program ideas.
5.07      One of the more impressive outcomes of the project in Indonesia has
been the spontaneous response of villages. Communities near NIPP villages
have organized themselves and established similar programs with their own
resources. (One regency, Bojonegoro, has arranged funding from local sources
to permit NIPP to continue there.)
5.08      The nutrition education component was the most effective activity
of the type conducted any place and already is being looked to as a model,



- 23 -
worldwide. Impact of component is noted in paras. 4.21 to 4.26. The
nutritional status of children up to 24 months old in five areas where
nutrition education under the project was offered can be compared with that
in five areas that received different programs of nutrition education and
other nutrition inputs from three major government programs. One year after
the full implementation of the communications strategy, there were
significant differences in percentages of malnourished children, as measured
by weight for age:
Percent of Children in
Percent of Standard     Nutrition Education      Comprison
Weight-for Age              Villages           Villages
Less than 60                    0.0                  1.2
60 - 74                   10.0                18.2
75 - 89                  42.4                 40.0
90 +                47.6                 40.6
Based on cost estimates and the finding that 40% of the children in the
nutrition education program were growing more rapidly than those in the
comparison group, the cost per child with improved nutrition status was $9.85
per year during the pilot phase and has been projected at $5.15 a year for an
expanded program.
5.09      Another major objective of the project was to aid the government in
the formulation and execution of a national food and nutrition program; and
many background papers sponsored by the project and the ongoing policy
dialogue between Bank and GOI staff have been geared toward that end. In
February 1983, at a Food and Nutrition Planning Workshop funded by the
project, the coordinating minister for economy, finance, and industry gave a
strong endorsement for assigning nutrition high priority and expanding nutri-
tion activities. This was reiterated six months later in a meeting that
discussed recent work on the nutrition section of REPELITA IV. A National
Nutrition Improvement Working Conference was opened on April 12, 1984 by
President Soeharto who strongly reiterated GOI's continuing interest in
nutrition issues, as an integral part of the national five-year plan. This
dramatically increased government and public support for nutrition and augers
well for the future.
5.10      The 1982 evaluation team of international and Indonesian nutrition
experts credited the project with strengthening and expanding the infra-
structure for a larger scale nutrition program in Indonesia- and noted the
quite impressive' impact of its action programs. The report linked the



- 24 -
greatly increased emphasis on nutrition in the national plan -- which now
extends nutrition activities to approximately 30,000 villages - to the
project. Other international agencies, particularly UNICEF, have also
played a very important role in raising the consciousness of the government
concerning nutrition, as well as in funding nutrition activities. The
Ministry of Health and BAPPENAS, and to a lesser extent the Ministry of
Agriculture, have become more conscious of the importar.ce of nutrition and
the possibilities for effective intervention. Ir,terest in component evalu-
ation (clearly one of the project's weak points in the early stages) has
not only increased but has spread to nutrition activities beyond the
project.
5.11      Finally, the evaluation shortcomings, the institutional strength-
ening still need, and other (particularly management and coordination)
problems should not detract from the fact that the government has estab-
lished a strong base in a remarkably short period. Nutritior. now plays so
large a role in Indonesia (including as an entry point for family planning
and women's development activities) that it frequently is referred to as a
movement, with few parallels elsewhere. The Bank project is widely
credited in Indonesia with having contributed, directly and indirectly, to
this. The government has now asked the Bank for a loan for a second
nutrition project.
VII. RAW PERFORMANCE
6.01      Bark contribution to project design and implementation has been
substantial. Until the early 1970s, the GOI's Applied Nutrition Program
had remained confined to a few activities in a limited geographical area,
and did not attract high level political attention. The project sought to
change this.  As originally designed by GOI, its major components
(institution-building, field delivery and national policy analysis) were
designed to serve as initial building blocks for a gradually expanding
national program, and sought long-term impact rather than immediate
results.
6.02      On reviewing this strategy in March 1976, the Bank's Beard
suggested the addition of directly productive and/or productivity-oriented
field-action programs, so that the project could contribute more directly
to improvements in agricultural output (para. 2.04). These various add-
ons' though small in dollar value, introduced a sharper field-intervention
orientation, though still on a pilot basis (the components added included
anemia control, food storage, home and village gardens, ard nutritional
training to agricultural extension workers). Most of these components,
though not multisectoral in nature, had to be implemented with the assis-
tance of or through other government agencies. The Board's suggestions
therefore increased both the technical and administrative complexity of the
project.



- 25 -
6.03      As discussed In earlier sections, the effects of these changes in
project design were far reaching. Increased administrative complexity made
the project difficult to implement, and magnified the problems caused by weak
organizational and managerial capabilities in MOE. However the additional
components, vhen finally implemented, proved very beneficial and contributed
greatly to project success and impact. These direct-action components, when
combined with the original core components of the project, produced a
comprehensive package of inputs that has strengthened Indonesia's national
nutrition program in a variety of ways, from the central to the village
levels.
6.04      The Bank, has therefore helped to design and implement a project
that now serves as a prototype for an expanded national program. The project
also made possible a continuous and effective policy dialogue with GOI
officials. As a result, the primary gains from the project are Its
substantial impact on the priority, commitment, policy and program choices,
and level of government support for nutrition actions in Indonesia. The
close association between nutrition and food policies is now recognized in
REPELITA IV; and the connection between food habits and nutritional status
has also been made in the minds of the intended beneficiaries, and is
reflected in changing attitudes and behavior at the village level. The
latter benefit is primarily due to NIPP's supplementary feeding program and
the nutritional communication compouent, both of which have been effectively
implemented.
6.05      Of course, these benefits also entailed heavy costs of preparation
and supervision. Bank missions from Washington spent over 224 man.-weeks
(roughly 4.5 man-years) in Indonesia anii were assisted by resident staff in
the country. Almost equal amounts of Bank staff time were spent before and
after project effectiveness in April 1977, averaging about three missions a
year between 1973-80. However, despite the long period (four years) of
preparation and appraisal, and even though the loan was declared effective a
mere fortnight after loan signing, GOI staff were not ready for a quick
start-up. Since the project was administratively complex and required the
cooperation of a mnmber of government agencies (para. 2.08), the expectations
of a four-year implementation period (1977-81) were perhaps unrealistic.
Although expatriate consultants were sought to be provided to compensate for
the weak managerial capabilities of MOH staff, it is not certain that
consultants could have reduced the inltial problems caused by inexperienced
staff and rigid government systems. Therefore 4 t appears in retrospect that
the project might have benefited from additional attention to improving the
project staff's knowledge of GOI and Bank procedures, and from more realistic
implementation schedules.
6.06      During the early years, management problems and tight schedules put
great pressures on Bank and GOI officials to show progress by the time of the



- 26 -
mid-term review in 1980. As discussed earlier, a number of administrative
constraints were overome in 1979 (para. 3.08) and project progress became
much easier as a result. Although a two-year learning period was certainly a
major factor contributing to this improved pace of implementation, Bank
staff's persistent urging must also have helped. In fact, some GOI officials
seem to have felt that the pressure was more than needed, and thatthe
appraisal report, which had been translated in all its details into Bahasa
Indonesia and widely circulated, was initially used -more as a bible than as
a guide." (One of the examples cited is the manner in which individual
fellowships were required to be approved by Bank staff during the early
years. The procedure was later changed, and broad criteria of eligibility
and candidate lists rather than individual applications were submitted for
Bank approval). However, the Bank also showed some flexibility during loan
reallocation, for appointment of local consultants, and in the implementation
procedures used for NIPP. As a result, the concerted and joint efforts of
Bank and GOI officials have largely paid off, as is amply documented under
project accomplishments.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.01      The status of nutrition-related activities in Indonesia is far
better today than a decade ago when the project was initiated; and several
factors, including substantial non-project inputs provided by GOI and other
donor agencies have jointly produced this favorable outcome. A number of
project activities have been particularly successful, and have important
lessons for similar projects elsewhere. Among the field interventions under-
taken, the nutrition education component proved most effective since it was
designed to modify specific behavior. Working with intended audiences,
allowing them to try different alternatives and to formulate new ones, gave
both relevance and specificity to the overall project strategy. (One of the
keys to success was the work of a nutririon anthropologist who lived in
Javanese villages during most of the 14-month period of program formula-
tion). This component's objectives were based on what people could and would
do, addressed a few priorities, were transmitted easily and effectively by
village workers in home visits and growth monitoring sessions, and these
efforts were reinforced by radio. Thus, the nutrition education component
was highly successful because it ouilt on the resources that already existed
in the community.
7.02      The potential for linking health and nutrition delivery has also
been demonstrated: the weight monitoring and selective feeding approach for
screening and servicing nutritional needs required the establishment of a
common network of village-based workers, and this has been successfully
done. The project has also demonstrated the feasibility of a multisectoral
nutrition intervention whose success depended not only on inputs provided by



- 27 -
government agencies but also on the abilities of village families to help
themselves. Both these field activities have required intensive and sus-
tained effort over a long period of time, both for generating an awareness of
nutritional issues and for guiding and technically backstopping the activi-
ties of village-level volunteers and community groups.
7.03      The program to reduce anpmia was managed so efficiently on a large
scale, with apparently positive effects on worker productivity, as to make it
worthwhile for plantation owners to complement the project at their own
expense. A nationwide expansion of this component is clearly feasible. The
Indonesian experience with village home gardens demonstrated, however, that
since such a program only benefits those who have land to devote to gardens,
there is little benefit for those most in need of improved nutrition. The
project also showed the importance of community seed gardens; although the
number of seed gardens under the project fell short of appraisal targets,
the concept nonetheless remains worth rep'licating.
7.04      The project can perhaps be faulted for optimistically assuming a
high degree of managemant and organizational skills, despite its considerable
administrative complexity: communications and coordination amung agencies
remained poor throughout implementation, even after conSuitants for manage-
ment, planning and procurement had been proviJed.  Hovever, it appears that
the overall project impact would definitely have been reduced if any of these
components had been deleted in an effort to make the project -simpler- to
implement.
7.05      This is because most project components have been mutually reinr-
forcing. The CRDN has taken a role in the evaluation of both NIPP and the
anemia prevention and coatrol programs, and it formulated the food used in
NIPP's supplementary feeding program. The village-level technology for
production of the food was designed and produced by FTDC. In addition, the
gardening and storage programs were implemented in the same villages as
NIPP. The institution-building strategy included sizable training and
technical assistance elements to broaden the capacity to plan and operate
programs. This turned out to be one of the most effective and important
elements in the project in that it helped put Indonesia in the position today
to substantially enlarge its program and to improve it as local authorities
plan to do. Simultaneously, attention was given to developing a monitoring
and evaluation capability, and for undertaking national policy analysis.
Each of these project components has contributed to strengthening the
national program; together their impact has been very substantial.
7.06      Therefore, rather than reduce the number of components, perhaps
greater attention should have been given to selection of cowpeten.t project
management and staff, upgrading their skills and knowledge of Bank and GOI
procedures, and improving the coordination between activities such as
budgeting, contracting, procurement and technical assistance.



- 28 -
It appears that greater administrative preparation (as against technical
preparation of components) would have helped, perhaps through somethiLg like
the  project launch workshops used for some urban projects. In addition,
and perhaps more important for project effectiveness than organizational
form, the support and involvement of politically powerful decisionmakers was
also needed. Perhaps recognizing this, BAPPENAS pushed ahead without knowing
all the answers to technical and administrative uncertainties, because it
believed its program was moving in the right direction and that (in the words
of the assistant director) -seizing the opportunity while there is interest
and resources- would pay the greatest dividends ten years later. Project
experience has clearly demonstrated the merits of this pragmatic approach.
7.07      Nevertheless, delays in implementation and the heavy supervision
required in early years provide evidence that the development of managerial
capability required more time than project circumstances and tight schedules
permitted. Inappropriate and inflexible approval mechanisms (such as those
used inltally for budget and fellowship approvals), and unfamiliarity with
Bank and GOI procedures caused avoidable delays. Close supervision by
Washington-based Bank staff, though initially necessary for putting pressure
on government officials to remove administrative constraints, was obviously
unable to compensate for weak local leadership. However, closer involvement
of the Bank's resident staff in Indonesia in routine follow-up of project
progress might have provided the additional technical and  political  support
needed by the newly appointed project manageement, especially since this was
the first Bank-funded nutrition project in Indonesia.
7.08      The monitoring and evaluation component also proved particularly
difficult. Generally, although the plans and funding for evaluation were
there, the value of assessing performance as a management tool was not
appreciated (except for the nutrition communication and behavioral change
component); and neither the recording and analysis of routine data for
monitoring operations nor special studies to evaluate impact were viewed
initially as integral parts of project implementation. The situation
improved in later years, after a local consulting firm helped simplify and
revise the monitoring system (for NIPP especially), making it possible for
relatively untrained field staff to generate meaningful data and undertake
timely analysis. Unfortunately, however, despite some noticeable progress in
research and evaluation capability, firm conclusions regarding replicability,
cost effectiveness, and impact must await more accurate data and analysis.
The rew studies that are available use different assumptions and bases for
allocating costs and assessing benefits, and do not lend themselves to
objective comparisons and generalizations. Greater attention to these aspects
of the project was clearly needed.
7.09      Despite these obvious shortcomings, the project has definitely been
worthwhile. AU three major objectives - concerning institution building,



- 29 -
testing of field level interventions, and policy formulation - have been
largely met. Some of the lessons learnt from the project have already been
incorporated into the national UPGK program, and the basic research facili-
ties, equipment, manpower, and infrastructure for nutrition delivery are
now in place. An expanded and more intensive national program will require
a well-coordinated but flexible decentralized management, highly motivated
staff and volunteers, and accurate monitoring and evaluation, all of which
are yet to be fully developed. Fortunately, however, in recent years, ther
has clearly been a general improvement in Indonesia's administrative and
institutional capabilities; and the government is strongly committed to
irAproving the nutritional status of its vast population. This high level
political support must now be supplemented with government funds for opera-
tional requirements (of staff, training, vehicles, equipment, maintenance)
which tend to become scarce once capital investments are in place. Unless
these are provided in adeauate amounts, future success can hardly be
assured, and even though the project has helped lay a strong foundation for
an expanded program, it is only an important first step.  Consequently, the
proposed second nutrition project, which has recently been appraised, is
timely and appropriate, and will help improve Indonesia's nutritional
status even further.



INDONESIA NUTRITION DSVELOUUENT PROJ6ET
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
N~OHCo(dnsw                                           amunah~                 caEm                                     F D O              FadSlta              Ninim
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D. a. C                                                                                        mnslt D        .        ar tntty of   --... ,wd_1$t
da k  !nmr           Pi                                        H al EHom   aaidAnn
NIEOH Dg Povimil                 O                      N  Cmlcai            Nuttillia                                                   N_P  CRH_ Tm  "_lm    Food tsi 
|  |    |           |           |  ~~~~~~~~Food Slatws | 
RILOH     |a uot                                      t         nd      |I
I   s .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|   Prantntbr |kw                          Nubiltion    |a|||
|Calntr4 Aineft                                Ptat"st   I     HtM G^tbs   |
Iin P MAMAI                                   Olfiee    1l 
NIPVA
L:~~~~~-af qt
4                                                                                                                              12Alti
Food SunWwU                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10



-31 -                              Annex 2
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Disbursements (US$ Million)
Fiscal Year                                                     Actual or Latest
and Quarter                                                     Estimated Dis-
Ending                      Appraisal           Actual          bursement as
Estimate           Total           Percent of Total
FY78
March 31, 1978                  0.3              0.0                    0.00
mY79
March 31, 1979                 1.9               0.1                    0M77
Fm
March 31, 1980                 5.7               1.2                    9.23
June 30, 1980                  6.6               1.5                   11.54
81
September 30, 1980             7.8               1.8                   13.85
December 31, 1980              9.0               2.3                   17.69
March 31, 1981                10.2               2.8                   21.54
June 30, 1981                 10.8               3.9                   30.00
FY82
September 30, 1981            11.6               4.5                   34.61
December 31, 1981             12.7               4.9                   37.69
March 31, 1982                13.0               6.0                   46.15
June 30, 1982                                    7.0                   53.85
FM3
September 30, 1982                              8.5                    65.38
December 31, 1982                                9.5                   73.08
March 31, 1983                                  10.3                   79.23
June 30, 1983                                   11.4                   87.69
FY84
September 30, 1983                              12.66                  97.38



-32-                            Annex 3
Page 1
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN CONDITIONS
Conditions                                 Remarks
1. Section 3.02
The Borrower shall employ con-        Consultants satisfactory to the
sultants whose qualifications,        Bank were employed.
experience and terms and condi-
tions of employmeut shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Section 3.03
The Borrower shall afford the         The Bank's approval was sought
Bank a reasonable opportunity to      prior to the appointment of staff
comment on the qualification and      to these positions.
experience of any person pro-
posed to be appointed to the
positions of Project Director,
Project Co-Director and Project
Manager and NIPP Coordinator
prior to the making of such
appointment.
3. Section 3.04 (c)
The Project Director shall be         Semi-annual reports were submitted
required to prepare and furnish       regularly to the Bank.
to the Bank semi-annual reports
on project progress.
4. Section 3.05 (d)
The accounts of all project           Reports delayed, but submitted.
audited each fiscal year, not
later than six months after the
end of each such year. The Bank
shall be furnished with certi-
fied copies.
5. Section 3.07 (i)
The Borrow-er shall maintain a        The Research Coordinating Committee
Research Coordinating Committee       met frequently.
to facilitate coordination of
the nutrition-related research
programs.



-33 -                           Anex-3
Page 2
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN CONDITIONS
Condltlons                                 Ramrks
6. Section 3.07 (li)
The Borrower shall submit to the      The research program w   submitted
Bank annual progress reports on       to the national food and nutrition
research programs,                    workshop hold in February 1983.
7. Section 3.08
The Borrower shall carry out a        Completed.
review of the NIPP program at
the end of the second year.
8. Section 3.09
The Borrower shall carry out a        Completed and report available.
review of the home/village
garden component at the end of
the third year of the NIPP
program.



-34-                       Annex 4
Page 1
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT: SUMMARY AND RECOOMENDATIONS
(i) The Indonesia Nutrition Development Project (INDP) commenced
in 1977 with three main objectives. As stated in the Appraisal
of a Nutrition Development Project (World Bank Report No. 1373-
IND), theme were:
a.   To strengthen and expand the existing necleus of
personnel and institutions in Indonesia to develop more
effective capacity for: formulation, execution and
evaluation of nutrition programs, operational research,
and manpower training in nutrition;
b.   To develop nationally replicable and cost-effective
measures to improve the nutritional status of mal-
nourished target groups through field level action
programs and their evaluation; and
C.   To aid the Government of Indonesia in the formulation
and execution of more comprehensive food and nutrition
program on a national scale based on the combination of
the above actions.
(i) The team believes that the primary objective of strengthen-
ing and expanding the infrastructure for a larger scale nutrition
program in Indonesia has been achieved in good measure. The
various components: Center for Research and Development in
Nutrition, Food Technology Development Center (FTDC), Nutrition
Manpower Training (NMPT), Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
(NIPP), Home and Village Gardens (HVG), Anemia Prevention and
Control Pilot Project (APC), Nutrition Commcnication and Behavior
Change (NCBC), and Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU) have enabled the
development of a better basis for the formulation and implementa
tion of food and nutrition policy and programs in the coming
Fourth Five Year Development Plan (REPELITA IV).
The project is highly successful in reaching rural popula-
tions with pragmatic nutrition education measures that sensitize
the po'ulation to the importance of paying attention to nutri-
tion. In particular, the field level action program NIPP and
NCBC, in 258 villages, 55 provincial sub-district levels
(kecamatan) in Java, Nusa Tenggara Barat (NFB) and South Sumatra
have had a catalytic influence on the initiation of the Family
Health and Nutrition Program (UPGK) and other related activities
in the surrounding areas utilizing local resources.



- 35 -                     Annex 4
Page 2
While the Project has provided for elaborate monitoring
and evaluation systems, the team notes that the result of evalua-
tion are not yet available in an appropriate form to assess the
impact of the action comonents of this project on the nutritional
status of target groups. However, the overall Impact of the
programs in different areas has been quite impressive, leading to
a demonstration cum spread effect.
In addition, the lessons learned from NIPP are being
and will continue to be applied to upgrade the management of the
extended UPGK programs.
(iii) The team believes that despite the overall successful
impact of INDP, there are major problems which merit immediate
attention. These are:
a.   Failures of monitoring and evaluation systems for almost all
activities of the Project, specifically in operating a
reliable system for collecting informtaion on the impact of
the various components;
b.   Inadequate arrangements for sustaining the infrastructure,
especially the institutions built up at considerable cost
such as CRDN, FTDC, Nutrition Academy (Akademi Gizi), and
School for Assistant Nutritionists (SPAG). There is a need,
in particular, of funds for maintenance, staff, upkeep of
equipment and training;
C.   Serious gaps in trained nutrition manpower at the village
level to supervise, coordinate, and monitor nutrition
activities in the field; and
d.   Weakness of arrangements for intersectoral coordination for
planning and execution of nutrition programs especially at
operational levels.
(iv) Based on the above findings, the team recommends that:
a.   With a view to maintaining the institutions that have been
set up under the INDP, on which substantial national
resources have been spent, adequate funds and continued
policy support be provided by the Government of Indonesia.
In particular, CRDN, FTDC, Akademi Gizi and SPAG should be
allowed to retain their identity, and be given support to
maintain and expand their activities as national focal
points in the field;



-36-                        Anex 4
Page 3
b. Efforts be devoted to expad the UPGK progressively to cover
more villages, utillsilg the experience and the lessons
derived from NIPP and other program which have been part of
INDP;
c. A more effective monitoring and evaluation system,
especially for program slilar to NIPP and UPGK, be
established;
d.   The Health Center (PUSIESNAS) at the kecm_ tan level should
be strengthened by the addition of an assistant nutritionist
to coordinate, supervise, monitor and evaluate the expanded
nutrition program at village level.
e.   The coordinating arrangements be lproved under a structure
with the explicit authority for determining its own
policies, the means ad personnel for the liplementation of
its programs, and its own budget.
f.   The team  recomends that a Task Force of experts be set up
early to draw up an outline of the programs for the future,
particularly REPELITA lV in the field of nutrition activi
ties, with a proper sssessment of costs, manpower require-
ments and feasibility.



- 37 -                        Annex S
Page 1
National Family Nutrition Improvement Program (UPGK)*
Background and Focus of the Family Nutrition
Improvement Programme (UPGK)
1.        The Indonesian Family Nutrition Improvement Programme herein
referred to as UPGK (Usana Perbaikan Gizi Keluarga), is a national inter-
sectoral programme which integrates activities and messages in nutrition,
health, birth-spacing, home food production and religion in an effort to
promote improvements in family nutrition and child survival. Four sectors
work together to provide an integrated package of activities including the
Ministry of Health (MOH), National Family Planning Coordinating Board
(BKKBN), Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of Religion (MOR).
The first three of these sectors are directly involved in UPGK service
delivery, while MOR stimulates awareness and community participation in the
programme.
2.        UPGK is targeted to under-five children and their mothers, and
pregnant and lactating women. It is focused on the village and the home
and aims at an effective utilization of resources available within the
community and the househojli. UPGK is based on the premise that the mother
is the critical agent to maintain the health of her child, and the focal
point for bringing about behavioral changes to improve child survival.
Hence, all aspects of the programme are designed around assisting the
mother in identifying when her child is 'at risk' of becoming malnourished
and helping her to modify her behaviour to prevent more serious problems
from occurring.
3.        The major activity of UPGK, nutrition education through growth
monitoring is based on the assumption that monthly weighing of children
together with advice and education of mothers and referral of children "at
risk" is sufficient to prevent most cases of severe malnutrition. For most
children household resources are presumed to be adequate to prevent severe
malnutrition if mobilized properly. This assumption was based on an
earlier study which found that the incidence of childhood PEM was as wide-
spread in "food adequate" households as in 'food deficient' households.
Other studies concur that the problem is largely one of existing food
distribution practices among household members and child feeding habits,
and emphasize the need for nutrition policies and interventions directed at
changing behavioural practices of mothers.
4.        The major U?GK theme "a growing child is a healthy child," is
easily understood down to the level of individual mothers and is supported
by their day to day experience. The scale used to weigh chlldren, and the
chart used to monitor growth and identify those not gaining weight, are
easily used by mothers and village volunteers with minimal craining.
* Terrel M. Hill, Rodolfo Florentino, and L.ana D'Agnes, -The Indonesian
National Family Nutrition Improvement Programme (UPGK); Analysis of
Programme Experience," Report submitted to UNICEF Executive Board,
December 1983 (mimeographed).



-38-                            Annex 5
- 38 -                ~~~~Page 2
UPGK Service Packages
5.        UPGK consists of comprehensive nutrition and child survival
activities encompassed in two service delivery packages: a 'basic" package
and a "complete" package. The 'basic" package includes child weighing,
education in nutrition and home food production, distribution of
nutritional first aids, promotion of birth-spacing, breastfeeding and oral
rehydration, and referral to local health facilities for immunization and
other health services. The "complete" package includes the basic package
plus a subsidy for rehabilitative feeding of malnourished children - which
is provided by the government and administered in the community. Seeds for
home gardens, and special "coaching" by agriculture extension workers are
also provided in the complete package to promote local food production in
"food deficit" programme areas.
6.        The centre of UPGK activity is the sub-village nutrition weighing
post where mothers bring their babies and yound children for growth
monitoring and other preventive health services offered simultaneously with
monthly weighing sessions. The weighing post is equipped with a scale,
growth charts, nutrition education materials, reporting and recording
forms, facilities for preparation of foods for group demonstrations and
educational" feeding activities, and nutritional first aids (vitamin A
capsules for prevention of childhood blindness, iron folate tablets for
prevention of anemia in pregnant women, and oral rehydration salts for
management of children with diarrhoea).
7.        All activities are conducted by village volunteers (cadres) who
are unpaid workers selected from the community on the basis of their
ability to read and write, and their interest in participating in the
programme. Mothers themselves are often selected as village cadres, as
well as members of the local women's social affairs organiz& 4on (PKK)
which includes all women of the village in its membership. Cadres are
trained to implement the programme in a preliminary three to five day
training session, and work under the supervision of the local village
leader (lurah) and his wife. Technical backstopping and supervision are
provided to village leaders and cadres by trained midwives of the MCH and
paid extension workers of the MOA and BKKBN.
8.        The UPGK package includes elements of GOBI-FF, a check-list of
low-cost highly effective measures to enhance child survival recently
advocated by the Executive Director of UNICEF in the 1982-83 State of the
World's Children. The GOBI-FF measures of Oral rehyration and Food
supplements are included in the nutritional first aids component of UPGK
(oral rehydration salts, vitamin A capsules and iron supplements). Growth
monitoring and Breastfeeding promotion are provided through UPGK, together



39-                            Annex 5
rage 3
with referral to health facilities and village family planning posts for
assistance in Family-spacing of children. The UPGK weighing posts are also
beginning to be used as a forum for Immunization activities.
9.        The UPGK programme is now estimated to operate in over 30,000
villages where 70S (14.9P million) of the nation's under-fives live.
Millions of mothers throughout the country are taking their babies and
young children to "weighing posts" in their villages to learn if their
children are healthy, to prevent malnutrition, and to protect them against
blindness caused by vitamin A deficiency and dehydration resulting from
diarrhoea. More than 400 thousand village volunteers (cadres) record
monthly weight changes on growth charts which are kept at home and serve as
a constant reminder to mothers of the health status of their children.
Severely malnourished children are referred to health cer,tres for rehabil-
itative feeding and other health services.
10.       Although a nationwide impact study of UPGK has yet to be under-
taken by the GOI, limited case studies and site visits have indicated a
high potential for positive change both on nutritional status of children
and knowledge and behaviour of mothers brought about by UPGK implementa-
tion. (It should 't2 recognized, however, that it would be extremely
difficult to demonstrate impact in a programme of this size because of the
presence of numerous intervening factors unrelated to the program
itself).
II.       A number of spin-off and multiplier effects have been generated
by the UPGK experience. It is estimated that UPGK provided an impetus for
more than 2,000 villages throughout the countAy to start their own pro-
gramme without recourse to outside resources. in a number of UPGK
programme areas, cadres have developed independP'Ut village support for
educational" feeding activities through innovative income generating and
credit-savings schemes. In still other villages, mothers contribute excess
produce from honme gardens to support monthly -educational- feeding of
needy children in the village.



74>  799 6' S     3 4
':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.  ,z/ - 



- 41 -
Annex 6
MINISTR! OYF HELTH REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF COMMUNITY HEALTH
JAKARTA
Jalan Prapatan No. 10                                Phone:
Number   : 562/BGM/TU/V85
Reference:  IBIRD Loan No. 1373-IND                   Jakarta:  May  1985
Subject     Cable INTBAFRAD
IBRD - RSI Jakarta
Jl. Rasuna Said
JALAN PRAPATAN
Dear Sir,
We would appreciate it very much if you could convey the follow-
ing message to Mr. Jukinari Watanabe, IBRD, Washington, D.C.,
USA.
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
For          : Mr. Yukinori Watanabe, Director Operations
Evaluation Dept.
ke          : LBRD Loan No. 1373-IND
REVIEWED DRAFT PCR INDP (LOAN 1373-IND).  NO OTHER  COMPONENT
FROM US. ITEM ANNEX 3 NO. 4 REGARDING AUDIT REPORT FOR FISCAL
YEAR 1981-82 ALREADY SENT FEBRUARY 1983 AND FOR FISCAL YEAR
1982-83 SENT JULY 1984.
REGARDS, SUYONO YAHYA, H.D.
Thank you for your kind assistance.
(Signed)
cc:
1. The Secretary Directorate General of Community Health
2. File



RR.n IRMRF I
-G,       THAILAND        '                         114-                     11'       .                                     .     urn.                     1f                        IU'
- s  ~  ^ 8~   >   PHILIPPINES        -                       NUTRITION  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
i | e } - /                     f                          lNUTRITION INTNVEINTICO  PILOT POJECT AREAS
13i 1 I                                       South        China        Sea           BRUNEI ';                    -
. 3i 1 I       (         MALAYSIA                                                          II  t ^  I
UUMt ALAYSIAA                                                                         17A $3 -                                                                                              A1
S   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ia.Ahs
O4 .ALIU^hT^h  j*.R-SINGAPCFE                                                                                        F                                         NA                           _,
IT JAWIUASAT^h *|SUR                                                     4                           @                                                     |t,  _                4       z                                   l llE.
te ULAWtSjl5ALAA/d Oe          O     t *GGMDIJNG                                                A               IGG                                                                                               is
*I O.K UU JAARASUAWS
Aw  l'I                                                                     as I         s                         1                           '1                                                    J'
L..AM.. .a                                                               a .     a              Sue  lRS
1 U AKI                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
U4KLMANT1ANARTISeA
IS   ERIIANA SLATAN                                                                                                                                         ..ll
~~~Z IA  I ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ WAI
AT AU    UTARA                                                JAAA                                                                                        aa     a        S     
1XALUKMA--TA- N BAI-I-'                                                                                                                       ,                                          9'5A
27 TAIMAN tANU  T                                                                                                                                    2
10 SUI.AWIS'  ASHWy                                    - 
31 SULAWIIITKN ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~      S*nr1W15                                                                                                     W                          314
~~~~2 IIA I                                     we                                                                              0                              me      Om              v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGSTIs






