Document of                    LE  COp
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1074-IND
PRELIMINARY REPORT
ON A
PROPOSED NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN INDONESIA
March 4, 1976
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
This docunt has a restictd disrbtilo  and my be used by recipients eoly in the perfornee of
their ofleil dutis. Its eobets may not oterwise be dislsed without Wodd BDak authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00              m     Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 1.00                     $0.241
Rp 1 million                $2,409.64
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)             =     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2      =     0.39 square miles
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ANP            Applied Nutrition Program
BAPPENAS       National Development Planning Agency
BPGN           Provincial (or Regency) Committee for Family Nutrition
Bupati         Chief Exeucitve of Regency
CARE           Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CRDN           Centre for Research and Development in Nutrition
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FTDC           Food Technology Development Centre
GOI            Government of Indonesia
Inpres         A Presidential Instruction
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
NIPP           Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
NRI            National Research Institute
PCM            Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
TAC            Technical Advisory Committee
UDKP           Sub-Districts selected for community development
UNICEF         United Nations Children Fund
WFP            World Food Program
WHO            World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRELIMINARY REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN INDONESIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................................................          I
II.    BACKGROUND ....................................... o.     ......... ..........   I
A.    The Nutrition Problem  .........             ......................        1
B.    Causes of Malnutrition  ............ ............                          3
C.    Actions to Counter Malnutrition  ......... ... ..........                  4
III.    THE PROJECT .............................................                         7
A.    Goals and Strategy ..................................                      7
B.    Project Description  . .......................... ......                   7
C.    Detailed Features  ......... . . . . . .  .................. .............. .  8
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............            ..................          11
A.    Project Organization  ............         ..... . ..............         11
B.    Project Objectives  ...............         ..      .................     12
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation             ...........................         12
V.    COSTS,  FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT  ..................             .......       13
VI.    CONCLUSION ..................................................... t......        13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in August 1975. The appraisal mission consisted of: Mr. S. Venkit-
aramanan (Chief of Mission), Dr. K.V. Ranganathan, Dr. T. Tiglao, Mr. A. Shaw,
and Mr. D. Mills, Mr. E. Thompson , Mr. J. Worgan, Dr. M. Behar (consultants).
Mr. Venkitaramanan made a subsequent updating mission in January 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PRELIMINARY REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN INDONESIA
I. Introduction
1.01      The prevalence of malnutrition in Indonesia has been causing serious
concern to the Government. Over the past several years, the Government has
undertaken a number of nutrition activities with the assistance of UNICEF,
WHO, CARE, FAO and other agencies to remedy vitamin and protein/calorie
deficiencies. The efforts have been aimed at nutritionally vulnerable groups,
which include young children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. They have
been limited in scope, and have lacked coordination and institutional support
to combat effectively malnutrition, its causes and derivative ills on a
national scale. However, the experience from these activities, and from
independent surveys and studies, has revealed the nature and magnitude of
nutrition problems and provides a basis for the proposed project.
1.02      The Government has requested Bank assistance in strengthening on-
going programs of nutritional research, food technology, nutrition education
and training, and in developing the institutions to assist in the formula-
tion, implementation and evaluation of a national nutrition program. The
proposed project, which includes a range of experimental activites in these
fields, would assist the Government in developing a nationally replicable
food and nutrition program. A Task Force established in 1973 by the BAPPENAS
(Tli, National Development and Planning Agency), and consisting cf represent-
atives of relevant ministries, prepared the project with assistance from Bank
staff and consultants. The project appraisal was initiated by a mission in
August-September 1975 and completed by a follow-up mission in February 1976.
1.03      Throughout the preparation of the proposed Bank supported project,
UNICEF representatives played an active part both on the field visits and in
Jakarta. A WHO sponsored team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
visited Indonesia in February 1974, and its recommendations have been taken
into account in project preparation. The Chief of the Nutrition Unit, WHO,
Geneva, was a member of the appraisal mission.
II. Background
A. The Nutrition Problem
).J1      The Government, with assistance from international agencies, has
Ldentified four major nutrition problems in Indonesia: (a) protein-calorie
mialnutrition; (b) vitamin A deficiency; (c) iodine deficiency and (d) nut-
ritional anemia. These problems are widespread throughout Indonesia, al-
though ecological and cultural differences among the regions, affecting



-2-
food availability and consumption, account for substantial geographical
variations in the nature and intensity of malnutrition.
2.02      Protein-Calorie Malnutrition (PCM).  Close to one third of all
the children under the age of five (about 7 million) and more than one
half of all lactating mothers (about 5.7 million) are estimated to suffer
from PCM. Indonesia has a high rate of infant mortality which can be
traced in large part to PCM. Infant deaths lie between 110 and 150 per
1,000 compared to 38 infant deaths per 1,000 in neighboring Malaysia. If
PCM is untreated among survivors, and particularly before the age of 2
years, i.t will retard physical growth and impair mental development. After
the age of 3 years, recovery of the lack of growth caused by PCM is at best
extremely difficult.
2.03       Vitamin A Deficiency.  The incidence of vitamin A deficiency among
Indonesia's population, particularly children, is among the highest in the
world. The deficiency affects growth and weakens resistance to other nut-
ritional diseases. Prolonged vitamin A deficiency causes clinically serious
lesions of the eye, known as xerophtahlmia, which competes with trachoma as
a cause of blindness in the country. The incidence of xerophthalmia among
children has been found to be 4% to 5% in rural Java with rates up to 22%
in urban squatter areas.
2.04       Iodine Deficiency.  Goiter, caused by iodine deficiency, may cause
no symptoms, but untreated goiter causes difficulty in breathing, coughing
and voice changes. Recent studies show increasing incidence of goiter,
especially among children (between 60% and 80% of those surveyed in North
and West Sumatra, East Java and Bali). Iodine deficiency can also lead to
cretinism, which manifests itself through a wide range of symptoms, such as
mental retardation, deafness and deaf-mutism. A 1973 study indicates there
are about 100,000 cases of cretinism, and about 500,000 others in early
stages of cretinism.
2.05      Nutritional Anemia.  Joint IBRD and Indonesian Nutrition Research
Institute studies undertaken in 1973 and 1974 1/ found that Indoensia has
the highest incidence (28% - 52%) of nutritional anemia ever recorded in a
male population during non-famine conditions 2/. The studies also found that
1/   Karyadi and Basta, "Nutrition and Health of Indonesia Construction
Workers; "IBRD Staff Paper 152 (1973), and Basta and Churchill, "Iron
Deficiency and the Productivity of Adult Males in Indonesia," IBRD
Staff Paper No. 175 (1974).
2/   The variations reflect incidence of anemia in different geographical
regions.



- 3 -
productivity of non-anemic workers was about 20% higher than for anemic
workers. Other studies 1/ found anemia to be prevalent among non-pregnant
women (35% to 85%) and pregnant women (50% to 92%) 2/. Nutritional anemia,
which is mostly due to iron deficiency, leads to lower productivity and
lassitude.
B. Causes of Malnutrition
2.06      Indonesia's average per capita availability of food has been about
1,840 calories and 45 grams of protein compared to a recommended daily re-
quirements of about 1,920 calories and 55 grams of protein 31. However, given
the income distribution in Indonesia, a substantial portion of the population
is getting well below the required amounts. During the First Development Plan
period (1969-74) an important priority area was to increase rice production,
the main staple food, largely through measures related to pricing policy,
fertilizer subsidy and extension services. During the period rice production
increased at the rate of 4.6% per year. The production of secondary crops
declined, however, and on the basis of caloric yields, the production of all
foods increased by only 3% per year - not enough to meet demand resulting from
rising incomes and population growth 4/.
2.07      During the Second Five Year Plan (1974-79) growth in rice production
has been projected at 5% per annum. Even at this rate of expansion production
will be insufficient to meet estimated demand. The Government's concern over
the rice shortage has led to proposals to develop rice estates outside Java
and to develop tidal irrigation on a large scale for settlers. The Govern-
ment also plans to intensify secondary food crop production. The Bank has
supported these agricultural efforts by a series of projects to increase
paddy production through rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation systems.
Other related projects have aimed at increasing the use of fertilizers, up-
grading production oriented agricultural research and increasing agricultural
extension services.
1/   Soekirman, "Priorities in Dealing with Nutrition Problems in Indonesia,"
Cornell International Nutrition Monograph Series (1974).
2/   The variations reflect incidence of anemia in different geographical
regions.
3/   The recommended daily requirements are based on FAO/WHO Committee recom-
mendations for energy and protein requirements for the Southeast Asia
region (1973).
4/   The population of Indonesia is estimated at 130 million, and is in-
creasing at a rate of 2.3% per year. Because the income level of
Indonesia remains low (GNP was estimated at about $90 per capita in
1972), between 55 and 60 percent of income growth has been translated
into de:iand for foodscuffs.



-4-
2.08      While increased food production is of paramount importance in
alleviating the problems of malnutrition, nutrition activities can also in-
crease the effective food availability and utilization. As in most tropical
countries, food wastage in Indonesia is high - often up to 30% or more.
Reduction of such losses and improved nutrient value of foods can be achieved
by better storage and preservation, through measures for food quality control,
formulation of weaning foods from local foods, and fortification of foods
such as wheat flour and salt. However, simple techniques to support wide-
spread action programs need to be further developed and integrated into the
training of field staff.
2.09      Insufficient awareness of nutritional needs also contributes to
malnutrition, particularly among vulnerable groups. In most areas the pre-
ferred staple is rice, frequently mixed with maize, cassava or sweet potatoes
for one of the two meals per day. Protein-rich vegetables are used insuf-
ficiently in meals, and few families can afford to consume animal protein,
such as salted and dried fish. Poor food habits compound the problem. The
habit of using only low protein weaning foods for weaning is a particular
problem. Concurrent infestations of parasites and infections also have an
adverse effect on intake, and particularly on absorption of needed nutrients.
C. Actions to Counter Malnutrition
2.10      On-Going Nutrition Programs.  Several international agencies have
over a long period assisted the Government in initiating and operating
various types of nutrition programs. The Applied Nutrition Program (ANP),
supported by UNICEF, FAO and WHO from the early sixties until 1974, began
in the province of Central Java and spread to selected individuals and about
100 villages in seven other provinces by the seventies. ANP projects promote
the production and use of protective 1/ and protein-rich foods through the
development of school gardens and the production of poultry, milk and fish.
Milk powder has been provided to around 2,000 Maternal Child Health (MCH)
centers with the assistance of the World Food Program (WFP). Vitamin A was
distributed as prophylaxis against xerophtalmia by the Ministry of Health
with assistance from UNICEF. Capsules were provided to 200,000 children
between the ages of one and four years at six-monthly intervals over the
last two years. Agreement has recently been reached between the Government
and UNICEF on a salt iodization program to fortify 120,000 tons per year
of salt with potassium iodate in large state salt works. Injections of
Lipiodol, an iodine compound dissolved in oil, are being given to a targeted
1/   Protective foods are foods rich in vitamins and minerals, such as
dark green leafy vegetables and red, orange or yellow fruits.



-5-
300,000 people a year in cases of critical iodine deficiency as protection
against endemic cretinism. The effect of these mass doses lasts for five
years.  School feeding programs have been undertaken by several agencies.
In West Java, CARE has organized a school lunch program covering approx-
imately 300,000 children. Catholic Relief Services and the Church World
Service have supported feeding programs for a further 50,000 school children.
These feeding programs, which use imported food, are being scaled down due
to the reduction in available grant supplies.
2.11      Nutrition Research and Training Institutes.  ThXe Nutrition-Research
Institute was established at Bogor in 1960 under the administration of the
Ministry of Health. The research work undertaken at the Institute has been
essentially bio-medical in orientation. The work program is of high quality,
but limited by shortages of staff, funds and equipment. The Academy of Nut-
rition at Jakarta, replacing the School of Dietetics in 1953, has the status
of a college. The Academy offers three years of training and awards Bachelor
of Science degrees in nutrition to about 25 graduates a year.
2.12      In 1973, there were 417 trained nutritionists in Indonesia - less
than half the number required in Government plans 1/. The Government wishes
to post one nutritionist in each of the country's 26 provinces, one nut-
ritionist in each of 260 (out of a total of 284) regencies 2/, and one
dietician to most of the 588 government hospitals.
2.13      Key Problems and Issues.  Until recently, nutrition programs,
though large in number, have been relatively small scale and diffuse in
character and content. The programs have been uncoordinated and have pro-
vided no institutional framework for efficient nutritional programming and
implementation. A major problem of the Government in developing a large
scale nutrition program is the absence of basic nutritional data and in-
formation regarding replicable nutrition activities. On-going programs
lack the adequate base-line nutritional data on which to analyze their
effectiveness, and do not have sufficient support from research in food
technology suited to the Indonesia situation.
1/   Of the 417 nutritionists, 352 are bachelors of science in nutrition,
36 are masters of science, 1 is a doctor of nutrition, and 28 are
medical nutritionists.
2/   Regencies, known locally as Kabupatens, are administrative sub-
divisions of provinces.



-6-
2.14      The result is that major nutrition problems are not being addressed
effectively in development plans or project implementation. The ANP program,
while successful in increasing awareness of nutritional problems in project
areas, had no other obvious benefits commensurate with the outlay. A 1973
evaluation of the program, handicapped by an absence of base-line data,
indicated that the program placed too great an emphasis on increasing protein
intake, particularly of animal origin, which was not an economically feasible
solution for the bulk of the population. The program also aimed at blanket
coverage of the population within small pilot areas rather than at those most
in need. The ANP program is currently undergoing revision, but there is no
successful precedent for dealing with PCM on which to plan. School feeding
programs, also designed to combat PCM, have relied on imported foods and
donations which cannot be sustained. No action program has been developed
to combat the widespread problem of anemia. Food wastage is another serious
problem which has not yet been adequately addressed. Although the Govern-
ment plans to reduce these losses and introduce measures for food quality
control there is inadequate institutional capacity to undertake the studies
and no field staff trained in applying likely recommended courses of action.
2.15      Government Organization for Nutrition.  Recognizing the complexity
of developing an effective replicable program and the need for expertise in
varied aspects of nutrition, the Government, in 1973, established a Task
Force of ministerial representatives in the BAPPENAS to prepare a nutrition
project proposal for the Bank. In 1974, a national nutrition conference was
convened, and based on recommendtions from the conference, a Presidential
Instruction was issued on September 13, 1974, establishing a Forum of ten
ministers under the chairmanship of the Minister of State for People's Wel-
fare. The Ministers of Finance, Planning, Industry, Interior, Agriculture,
Education, Religion, Information and Health are members of the Forum with
responsibility for the coordination and implementation of a national nut-
rition program. The Minister of Interior was instructed to direct that
Governors of Provinces and Bupatis (chief executives) of Regencies would
be responsible for coordinating and implementing nutrition programs within
their respective areas of jurisdiction. The Forum of ten ministers is
advised by a Technical Commission under the chairmanship of a Deputy Chair-
man of BAPPENAS. Membership consists of working level representatives from
the concerned ministries. The Technical Committee has appointed sub-
committees to recommend policy on goiter, Vitamin A prophylaxis, a revised
ANP program, nutrition education and breast-feeding. The Government re-
quested the Bank to assist in developing institutions, technical competence
and effective action programs.



- 7 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Strategy
3.01      The proposed nutrition project would assist in the development of a
national food and nutrition program with adequate institutional support and
appropriately trained manpower capacity for its implementation. The project
-           aims to strengthen the institutional and technical capacity for research and
development in food and nutrition, identify effective measures to bring
about improvement in nutritional status and develop the managerial capacity
for a subsequent larger scale program. Its field activities attempt to improve
the nutritional status of children under the age of three, pregnant women and
lactating mothers, most of whom are in the low income groups. An important
objective is to induce behavioral change so that improvement in nutritional
status can be self-sustaining and continue without outside assistance. During
the four year project period, the project would experiment and demonstrate
different nutrition activities in sufficiently large but diverse areas
through pilot programs to test their nutritional impact, social acceptability
and administrative feasibility. The package of nutrition measures would be
based on improvements in the use of local food resources through nutrition
research, education and manpower training and better methods of food proces-
sing, preparation, storage and distribution. The project would also set up
a monitoring, evaluation and planning system for assessing, controlling and,
if necessary, modifying the project concepts in respect of each of its com-
ponents. The system would enable the Government to use the project data
and information for formulating national nutrition policy and programs.
B. Project Description
3.02      The proposed nutrition development project would assist the gov-
ernment in:
a.   Establishment of a Center for Research and Development in
Nutrition (CRDN) at Bogor by conversion of the existing
Nutrition Research Institute through the provision of funds
for additional staff, training, technical assistance, neces-
sary equipment and buildings together with managerial support;
b.   Establishment of a Food Technology Development Center (FTDC)
in the Agricultural University at Bogor through the provision
of funds for training, staff, equipment and buildings;



-8-
c.   Initiation of a Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
(NIPP) which integrates nutrition, education, agricultural
and health activities and selective food supplementation to
vulnerable target groups to be undertaken in four regencies
in the first two years of the project and to be expanded to
up to seven regencies in the remaining two years;
d.   Testing the efficiency of alternative nutrition education
methods such as face-to-face communication and mass com-
munication media with a view to assisting the development
of a national nutrition education program;
e.   Upgrading and expansion of the training of nutritionists in
the Academy of Nutrition at Jakarta by provision of equipment,
staff and necessary physical facilities; and
f.   Strengthening of planning, coordination and evaluation of
nutrition activities through technical assistance and
operating expenses during the project for (i) planning a
national nutrition program; (ii) the Project Director and
his secretariat; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation of
project components and evaluation of other nutrition programs.
C. Detailed Features
3.03      The Center for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN).  This
project component would develop the capability at the Nutrition Research
Institute to support planning and policy development by BAPPENAS and related
agencies, and to provide base-line data for evaluation of nutrition projects.
The Institute would become the Center for Research and Development in
Nutrition (CRDN). The project would assist in staff development at CRDN
through provisions for graduate and undergraduate level training. Under
the project, the Cneter would consist of three existing divisions ( on food
science, clinical nutrition and community nutrition) and a new division on
the socio-economic aspects of food and nutrition. The socio-economic
division would provide support to the planning groups in the Ministry of
Health and BAPPENAS and would interact with on-going agricultural and
technological research in Indonesia.
3.04      The Food Technology Development Center (FTDC).  The proposed com-
ponent would establish at the Agricultural University at Bogor a Food Tech-
nology Development Center (FTDC) for training and research in food tech-
nology, particularly related to rural food processing needs. The objective
would be to reduce wastage in processing and storage of food products and
to ensure maximum benefit from processed foods. The Center would develop
a pilot extension service to identify problems and provide information to
rural communities on food processing and to test experimental processing



-9-
methods developed at FTDC in selected villages. The FTDC and CRDN would
work closely and share information with the agricultural research and ex-
tension agencies of the Government.
3.05      The FTDC would collaborate with CRDN on the further development of
simple technology for village-based processing of nutritious foods, in
particular for supplementary foods required by the Nutrition Intervention
Pilot Project (see para 3.07 below). The FTDC would advise and, through its
pilot extension unit, participate in the processing of the foods and main-
tain a quality control monitoring service on the foods manufactured.
3.06      The staff of the FTDC would also be members of the Faculty of the
Agricultural University at Bogor, and using the facilities of the FTDC would
offer university courses to agricultural extension officers and other agri-
cultural personnel, food industry technicians and nutritionists.
3.07      The Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP).  The NIPP com-
ponent is designed to test various integrated nutrition programs and delivery
systems In order to identify the most feasible and efficient interventions
and means of delivery for inclusion in a national food and nutrition program.
The primary objective of the nutrition interventions would be to reduce PCM
(protein-calorie malnutrition) among children under three years of age,
pregnant women and lactating mothers by actively seeking out the nutritionally
deprived target groups. In addition, the project would try to remedy other
nutritional deficiencies and related infectious diseases.
3.08      The activities would entail different combinations (and levels
of intensity) of supplemental feeding, nutrition education, supportive
health activities (immunization, water supply and sanitation) and com-
plementary agricultural production improvements. A plan of operations for
each year and each area would be prepared by the local authorities, approved
by the Director General of the Ministry of Health and, prior to their
implementation, approved by the Bank. Improvements in food processing and
storage would be implemented through the use of simple technology being
developed by food technology groups. Food supplementation for the selected
children and mothers suffering from PCM would be provided by using alterna-
tive systems of delivery, e.g., health personnel, teachers, village officials,
volunteers. Village cadres, mostly women, would be trained to carry out
weighing of children under three, to provide nutrition education to mothers,
and to make home visits to demonstrte use of the supplements. Recruitment
would be from among home economic workers of the agricultural extension
service, community development workers of the agricultural extension serv-
ice, community development workers and members of the Women's Organization
(PKK).



- 10 -
3.09      NIPP would be carried out initially in two regencies - one
typical of conditions prevailing on Java and the other representing those
of the outer islands - and extended to two additional regencies in the
second year. After a review by the Bank and the Government of Indonesia
in the second year, it would be extended to another three regencies, making
in all a total of seven regencies by the fourth year.  During the proposed
period of operation, 183 vilalges would be assisted, and over 35,000 children
affected by PCM would be rehabilitated. About 57,000 pregnant and lactating
women would receive nutrition education and 30,000 are expected to receive
supplementary food. In addition, over 100,000 children would receive
immunization from infectious diseases and 100,000 families would be exposed
to nutrition education.
3.10      Nutrition Education Component.  The nutrition education component
would give inservice training through short seminars and workshops to key
personnel in multi-sectoral nutrition education activities within the
relevant minitries and agencies, test the effectiveness of nutrition educa-
tion methods in bringing about behavioral change in target groups, and pro-
vide for the development of material for use in mass media dissemination of
nutrition education and information.
3.11      A program designed to integrate nutrition education in the
activities of the ministries concerned with implementing a national nut-
rition program is being proposed by the Technical Commission to the Forum
of ten ministries (see para 2.15). The proposed component would provide
a series of educational activities on national nutrition problems, on the
multi-sectoral nature of nutrition programs and on the respective respons-
ibilities of each ministry in nutrition planning and programming.
3.12      The component would test a variety of means aimed at bringing
about a behavioral response among low-income groups to nutrition education,
since nutrition education in the past has had little success in the adoption
of improved nutrition practices. The areas chosen are sub-districts
selected for community development (UDKP) which the Government has de-
lineated for purposes of regional development 1/. Base-line data on a
random sample of 300 families would be determined in each pilot area by
CRDN. The nutrition education information to be delivered would be based
on existing knowledge and research findings at the CRDN, FTDC and other
research centers such as university medical schools. Working manuals and
materials would be developed, pretested and produced. workshops, meetings
and seminars at various administrative levels would be used to strengthen
the educational process.
1/   One area would coincide with a NIPP site in order to test the impact
of NIPP with and without mass media backup.



- 11 -
3.13      The Government has planned a large expansion of TV transmitters
and regional radio stations and has plans to launch a communications satel-
lite within the project period. The proposed component would provide for
technical assistance and equipment needs for developing and testing
nutrition education messages to be used by mass communication media with
a view to creating public understanding of national nutrition problems.
3.14      Nutrition Manpower Training.  This project component aims to
increase the operating capacity of the Academy of Nutrition, the major
nutrition school in Indonesia, so that it can graduate annually 60
nutritionists as against the present 25. The component would support
the Academy's expansion through the development of physical facilities
and recruitment of staff with a target of 24 full-time faculty over a
10-year period, and a staff development program for the newly recruited.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
4.01      Each of the different components of the project would be implemented
within the existing organizational structure of Government. The CRDN in the
Ministry of Health and FTDC in the Ministry of Education would be administered
by their respective directors, assisted by financial and procurement staff.
The training and nutrition education components would be the responsibility of
the Chairman for the Center of Manpower Training in the Ministry of Health.
The NIPP component would be administered at the national level by a Coordi-
nator with ancillary staff; at the regency level, the Bupatis, under the
overall supervision of the Ministry of Interior, as executive heads would be
responsible for management and financial control. Civil works involved in the
project would be implemented through the engineering organization of the
Ministry of Health.
4.02      The overall coordination of the project would rest with the
Director General of Community Health in the Ministry of Health, the
designated Project Director. The Project Director would be assisted by
a full-time project manager, designated as Executive Secretary, a Deputy
Executive Secretary and special staff for finance and procurement. A
separate monitoring, evaluation and planning unit consisting of a senior
planning officer and two other planning officers would also report to the
Executive Secretary. The Project Director would also be assisted by an
experienced full-time nutrition project management expert who would be
available for the initial two years of the project and a part-time advisory
panel of experts, provided under technical assistance. In order to ensure
the full cooperation of the Ministries of Interior and Education a part-time
co-director will be nominated from each of these Ministries to work in close
cooperation with the Project Director in identifying and solving problems of
interministerial coordination.



- 12 -
4.03      The Project Director would be responsible for (i) monitoring
progress of the project, (ii) coordinating the activities of the different
components, (iii) controlling the flow of funds, including responsibility
for making withdrawal requests to the Bank as well as securing that
adequate budgetary appropriations are obtained for the project components.
4.04      The Project Director would present periodic reports to the
BAPPENAS, to the Technical Commission and to the Bank about the progress
of the project and the results of evaluations.
B. Project Objectives
4.05      By the end of the four year project period recommendations to
Government would have been prepared by the Project Director on the most
effective activities to be included in the national food and nutrition
program of the Third Development Plan (1979-84). These recommendations
would be based on the monitoring and evaluation of the alternative inter-
vention measures in the 7 regencies designated as NIPP areas and other
project components. In each village where NIPP would operate the follow-
ing objectives would be sought: to reduce by the end of a three-year
period of operations the incidence of PCM to 10% of the starting rate,
infant mortality by 50%, the number of underweight babies born by 50% and the
incidence of nutritional anemia by 60%. Coverage would also be offered for
Vitamin A, iron and iodine therapy.
4.06      The CRDN and FTDC would be fully established and oriented towards
their primary role of problem solving. The CRDN would have a professional
staff of 44, and the FTDC would have 23 professionals. Both institutions
would have teaching functions in addition to their applied research. The
Nutrition Academy would be training students to the Bachelor of Science
level for service in community nutrition activities, in CRDN and in other
institutions at the rate of 60 graduates per year.
4.07      By the end of the project period it is also expected that
theoretical and practical training in program management would have been
given by the CRDN and the Academy of Nutrition to 64 nutrition program
officers and assistant nutrition program officers. At a lower level,
183 village assistant program officers and 2,600 cadres for extension
services would have been trained.,
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.08      Effective monitoring and evaluation of the project would assist
the Government in achieving the goals stated in para 3.01. The monitoring



- 13 -
and evaluation team, in consultation with the CRDN, 1/ would advise the
Project Director through the Executive Secretary on the data to be collected
for evaluation purposes, in respect of project activities. It would also be
in charge of analyzing the data and informing the project management of the
progress of the components and on the overall results.
V. Costs, Financing and Procurement
5.01      Costs and financing.  Total project cost, including.contingencies,
is estimated at US$27.0 million equivalent, of which around 35% would be
the foreign exchange component (see appended cost tables). The cost of the
project would be financed by a proposed IBRD loan of US$13.5 million and an
equal contribution of US$13.5 million equivalent by the Government of
Indonesia. The proposed loan would be for a period of 20 years with 5 years
of grace. Retroactive financing not exceeding US$50,000 would be allowed
for expenditures on technical design of the building components from the
date of the appraisal mission.
5.02      Procurement and Disbursement.  Construction contracts in excess of
US$1.0 million and supply contracts in excess of US$50,000 would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding. Contracts below these
amounts in the respective categories would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally, with no restriction on foreign bidding,
and in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement would be made against equipment, civil works, technical
assistance and for project management cost including monitoring and
evaluation.
VI. Conclusion
6.01      The proposed project would develop Indonesia's institutional capa-
bility to assess its food and nutrition requirements, improve its utilization
of limited food resources, increased the trained manpower in the fields of
nutrition and food technology and help evolve a comprehensive national
nutrition program. Important among the conditions for the success of the
project are (i) the establishment of suitable project coordination arrange-
ments, as discussed above (para 4.02), and (ii) effective flow of information
derived from different tests and activities proposed in the field to those
engaged in the national planning process. The proposed organizational
arrangements seem suitable to reach these objectives.
1/   The design of surveys and technical evaluation of NIPP would be
performed by CRDN.



- 14 -
6.02      During negotiations, agreement would be sought with Government
on points relating to the organizational arrangements, preparation of the
national food and nutrition program in consultation with the Bank, setting
up of Technical Advisory Committees for the CRDN and FTDC, prior Bank ap-
proval of plans of operation for NIPP, and satisfactory budgeting and audit
arrangements.



Table 1
Page 15
Page 1 of 2
Tentative Estimates of Project Costs
(US   ' -000)
_______-           _______                    T,~l            Eign      TQIhT
A.  Center for Research and Devel-
opment in Nutrition
1.  Civil Works                           1,793         1,04         2,837
2.  Vehicles and Enuipment                  279          507           786
3.  Technical Assistance                                               h 477  477
4.  Incremental Operating Costs            -38           100           4A38
TOTAL                       29410        2,128        41,538
B.  Food Technology Development
Center
1.  Civil Works                           1,076           727        1,803
2.  Vehicles and Equipment                  585           908        1,493
3.  Technical Assistance                    136           561          697
4.  Incremental Operating Costs            _  6            9           96
TOTAL                       2,653        2,286         4,939
C. Nutrition Intervention Pilot
Fro.Iect
1.  Civil Works                             148           141           289
2.  Vehicles and Eouipment                  268           416          684
3.  Technical Assistance                    -             200          200
4. Food Supplement                           297          -             297
5. Incremental Operating Costs            3,000           -          310
TOTAL                       3,713          757         4,470
1/ Includes salary of incremental staff, travel, books, office supplies
and other items.



Table l,
Pagel6b'
Page 2 of 2
Tentative Estimates of ProJect Costs
(US $ '000)
Local        Foreign       TOTAL
D.  Nutrition Education
1.  Vehicles and Equipment                 44           90           134
2.  Technical Assistance                    6          44            450
3.  Incremental Operating Costs         126l           - __       1,861
TOTAL                        1,911         534          2,445
E. Nutrition Ma mower Training
1.  Civil Works                           304          161            465
2.  Vehicles and Equipment                  30         138           168
3.  Technical Assistance                  364          187           551
4.  Incremental Operating Costs           130           -            13_
TOTAL                          828         486          1,314
F.  Orgaization and Management
1.  Technical Assistance                   -           200            200
2.  Incremental Operating Costs           316           -             316
TOTAL                          316         200            516
G. Total Components
1.  Civil Works                         3,321         2,073        5,394
2.  Vehicles and Equipment              1,206         2,059         3,265
3.  Technical Assistance                  506         2,069        2,575
4.  Food Supplement                       297           -             297
5.  Incremental Operating Costs         6,501          ,190
Total Base Cost            11,831        6,391        18,222
Contingencies               5,696        3,219         8,915
Estimated Total
Project Cost               17,527        9,610        27,137
l



Table 2
Page 17
Tentative Consolidated Project Cost Estimates
(US $ toO)
A. Civil Works
1.  Construction                2,873      1,902       4,775      39.8     26.2
2.  Equipment                               6171       _i         27.6        _
Sub-Total A             3,321       2,073       5,394      38.4    29.6
B.  Non-Construction
1.  Vehicles and Equipment      1,206      2,059       3,265      63.1    17.9
2.  Technical Assistance         506       2,069       2,575      80.3    14.1
3.  Food Supplement               297        -           297        -       1.6
4. Incremental Salary          1,250         -         1,250        -        6.9
Support                                               -
5.  Incremental Operating      5,251         190       5.41        3.5    29.9
costs
Sub-Total B             8,510      4,318       12,828      33.7    70.4
Totil Base Cost        11,831       6,391      18,222      35.1   100.0
(A+B)
C.         Contingencies
Physical              1,183         639       1,822      35.1    10.0
Price                 4,513       2,580       7,093      36.4    38.9
Sub-Total C           5,696       3,219       8,915      36.1     48.9
Estimated Total
Project Cost         17,527      9,610       27,137      35.4
I/ Estimates as of July-August 1975. Physical contingencies have been allowed
for at the rate of 10% and price contingencies, at the rate of 16% for 1975,
14% for 1976 and 12% per annum for 1977-79 for all civil works. The non-
construction cost estimates include a price escalation of 12% for 1975, 10%
for 1976 and 8% for 1977-79.



