s   X ffi ffiW           Document of
i \7LJE \XDg9Lr~ UThe World Bank
]FOR OIFFHC]AL USE ONLY
Iaeport No. P-1998-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 16, 1977
Th1  s docemmennt hls a restieted dIsgribnflon asnd may be used by recipients oily n thDe pedormmce of
thelir offciEl duntges. ltls contecQs imay not oalerwise be dIsclesed withnout Wo]rlRd fiBnE anmhor1nmethon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           = Rp 415
1 Rp           =  $0O0024
1 million Rp   =  $2,410
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS     National Development Planning Agency
Bupati       Chief Executive of a Kabupaten
FAO          Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
GOI          Government of Indonesia
Inpres       A Presidential Instruction
Kabupaten    Administrative subdivision of a province
UNICEF       United Nations Childrens Fund
WHO          World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BAIIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AMD DEVELOPMIEN1T
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO TIIE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Oll A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
NIUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $13 million to
help finance a Nutrition Development Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including four and a half years of grace, with interest at
3.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Public Sector Investment
and Financial Resources in Indonesia" of Mlay 24, 1976 (1187-INID) evaluated
and analyzed Indonesia's public sector investment programs in relation to
the resource availabilities in the next three years. An economic mission has
recently visited Indonesia and its report is being prepared. Country data
are given in Annex I.
3.        In most respects, Indonesia's economic performance in the past
eight years has been impressive. GNP growth has averaged 7.5%. The
rates of investment and national savings have risen rapidly, and net foreign
transfers have correspondingly declined as a proportion of CU4P. Agricultural
output has expanded at an average rate of 4 to 5% (with rice production
expanding in step). The beginnings of modern industry have been set up and
the country is already virtually self-sufficient in fertilizer and is likely
to be so in cement within the next two or three years. Transport, power and
telecommunications systems and other infrastructure have been improved and
strengthened. In short, in its fourth year of the Second Development Plan
(1974-79), the economy is basically sound and provides a sharp contrast to
the situation less than a decade ago.
4.        Ilowever, difficult and serious problems remain.   The' country and
the overwhelming majority of its people are very poor. Average per capita
GNP is now estimated at $180 and 59% of the population lives at levels below
the absolute poverty base. The population growth rate is rising and is cur-
rently estimated at 2.5%, and population pressure on Java has been growing.
Mlany new employment opportunities have been created, but much more needs to be
done to provide employment for all the new entrants into the labor force and
to reduce existing unemployment and underemployment. General nutrition
standards have probably improved, but real wage rates for unskilled labor
/1  This part is essentially the same as that included in the President's
Report for the Sixth Power Project, January 19, 1977 (R77-15).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
are still among the lowest in the region, and have shown only a modest
improvement. The Government is committed to the alleviation of these prob-
lems. Projects to shift population from Java to unused cultivable areas
in other islands to increase productivity and incomes of farmers in Java, to
provide employment in a large rural works project and to improve public edu-
cation, health, water supply and other conditions in both rural and urban
areas are going forward.
5.        The country's resource position, balance of payments and the
Government budgetary situation have been dominated in the last two to three
years by the developments in the oil sector. First, there were the successive
increases in the price of oil in 1973 and 1974, which resulted in its quadru-
pling to $12.60 per barrel within a matter of months. With this increase, by
mid-1974 the balance of payments and revenues of the Government were improved
substantially.
6.        In the course of the 1974/75 fiscal year, the Government adjusted
its expenditure plans. As a consequence, most expenditure elements in the
development budget were revised upwards, some very substantially, to utilize
the unanticipated revenues. On the current expenditure side, a large and
much needed increase in the civil servants' salaries was granted. Over the
first six months of the fiscal year, the country's foreign exchange reserves
registered an increase of $650 million from a level of $930 million at the
start of 1974/75.
7.        In October 1974, however, the first signs appeared of what turned
out to be a substantial financial over extension by PERTAMINA, the national
oil company. PERTAMINA had undertaken a large and diversified investment
program financed to a substantial extent by short-term borrowing and in part
not financed at all. With the initial signs of a recession, monetary insti-
tutions in the industrialized countries became restrictive, credit became
more difficult to obtain and PERTAMINA began experiencing serious financial
problems. In the third quarter of 1974/75, it started withholding part of
the corporate oil tax it had collected on behalf of the Government from the
foreign oil companies; by the end of the fiscal year a total of Rp 346 bil-
lion ($830 million) had been so withheld and used to meet PERTAMINA's
financial obligations. Early in 1975, PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due
to some foreign banks, and the Government stepped in to stem an incipient
crisis and took decisive action. All independent foreign borrowing by
PERTAMINA and other public enterprises was banned and Bank Indonesia was
given sole authority to contract foreign obligations on behalf of the public
sector. The Government instructed Bank Indonesia to provide the funds needed
to meet PERTAMINA's external obligations, undertook a comprehensive review of
the oil company's investment projects and began the process of reducing and
replanning the company's investment program and of cancelling and renegoti-
ating many of the related procurement contracts. In the course of 1975, the
Government also initiated the reorganization of the oil company, and in March
1976, replaced its top management.
8.        At about the same time, the recession in the industrialized coun-
tries began to affect petroleum consumption and oil sales from Indonesia
began to suffer. Non-oil exports, particularly those of timber and rubber,



- 3 -
also began to decline. The volume of oil production declined sharply, to
less than 1.3 million barrels per day (bpd) compared to 1.45 million bpd in
the first six months of 1974. In the 1974/75 fiscal year, there was a
shortfall of about $200 million in net oil exports from the levels projected
early in the year, and non-oil exports failed to increase at all.
9.        These factors combined to create considerable financial diffi-
culties for the Government of Indonesia. The foreign exchange reserves
gained in the first half of the year were lost in the second; by March 31,
1975 these reserves had declined to the level of a year earlier (i.e.
$920 million). On the domestic front, the Government, after the promise of
a very large expansion in development expenditures, had to resort to financing
by Bank Indonesia of much of the investment programs of public enterprises
which were expected to be financed by increased tax revenues. Nevertheless,
total development expenditures in 1974/75 amounted to Rp 770 billion
($1.9 billion) about 60% (about 20% in real terms) higher than the level in
the previous year.
10.       In the first half of 1975/76, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves
declined by a further $480 million, despite substantial capital inflows,
which included two syndicated public borrowings (totalling $575 million) from
the international capital market. With continuing recessionary conditions in
Indonesia's principal markets, exports failed to increase while imports rose
again in 1975/76 (about 30% on an annual basis). Payments on behalf of
PERTAMINA were also very large (about $1 billion). In the second half of
1975/76, there was no appreciable change in export earnings, but imports and
debt service payments were lower and there was only a small reduction in
capital inflows (two more cash loans, amounting to $475 million, were raised).
The country's foreign exchange reserve position was, therefore, relatively
stable in this period and the decline in the reserves for the year as a whole
amounted to $360 million.
11.       Public sector investments continued to rise rapidly in 1975/76.
The Government's development expenditures amounted to over $3 billion
(Rp 1.27 trillion), including foreign project financing totalling $925 mil-
lion and fertilizer subsidies amounting to $320 million. This is more than
two and one-half times the expenditures in 1973/74; when adjusted for price
changes it still represents an increase of about 60%. A further increase of
50% in development expenditures was budgeted for 1976/77.
12.       As stated above, the Government has had to borrow over $1 billion
on commercial terms and has had to divert substantial additional financial
resources to completing PERTAMINA's investment projects which could not
economically be reduced further or abandoned. A considerable share of these
investments was also financed through domestic credit expansion. Despite a
substantial decrease in foreign exchange reserves, money supply increased by
40% in 1974 and 30% in 1975. This contributed to domestic inflation which
was at the rate of 20% in 1975/76, a rate higher than that prevailing in
Indonesia's principal trade partners and competitors.



13.       The recent financial difficulties will affect Indonesia's external
public debt service obligations during the rest of the decade. Debt service
payments over the next several years will be much larger than previously
envisaged as a result of large commercial borrowings in 1975 and 1976 (most
but not all of which related to PERTAMINA's obligations and projects) by the
Government. Debt service in 1976 is now estimated at about $750 million, or
about 13% of the value of projected exports, with oil exports on a net basis,
i.e. net of the foreign exchange costs of production, refineries and domestic
distribution and of foreign investment income. Debt service payments on all
loans contracted up to December 31, 1975 are likely to reach $1.25 billion by
1978, before declining as shorter-term maturities are paid off. This
excludes obligations contracted by PERTAMINA on account of oil tankers which
the Government is currently attempting to renegotiate. This enlarged debt
service will, in future years, sharply reduce net resource transfers which
were of the order of $500-600 million in 1973 and 1974, and between $1 and
$2 billion in 1975 and 1976. To keep the debt service burden manageable,
recourse to medium-term commercial borrowing in the next few years will,
therefore, have to be kept to a minimum, and certainly much below the 1975
and 1976 levels.
14.       Confronted with these problems the Government has taken a series
of important, far-reaching and difficult decisions. It has decided that
foreign borrowing must be cut back sharply from the 1976 level of about
$3.4 billion to about $2 billion in each of the years 1977 and 1978 before
being allowed to rise again to about $3 billion in 1980. With a view to
keeping the debt service burden manageable, it aims to effect most of the
reduction through a sharp cut in the least concessionary borrowings,
especially in the early years. On this basis, the debt service ratio is
expected to reach 18% in 1980 and would be at about the same level in 1985.
15.       In view of the expected sharp decline in net foreign resource
transfers, the Government has also decided to increase domestic revenues in
the next few years much faster than was originally contemplated and to levels
much higher than those likely to result from a mere continuation of the
existing tax policies and procedures. The Government also plans to reduce
selectively the aggregate size of the proposed public sector investment
program. This action is aimed at shifting the balance of the public sector
investment program towards a greater emphasis on directly improving the
income earning opportunities, productivity and living conditions of the mass
of the population. As in the past, some local currency financing will
continue to be justified in connection with a few projects proposed for Bank
assistance in the social sectors. Projects in these sectors tend to have a
relatively low foreign exchange component and the inclusion of some local
cost financing in the Bank loan is important in enabling the Bank to play a
more significant role in their formulation and implementation.
16.       The balance of payments performance in the first half of 1976/77
has been better than expected earlier and the outlook for the second half
is very good. Non-oil exports have risen faster and imports have risen more
slowly than expected and the Government has not resorted to excessive borrow-
ing. The Government has virtually completed its negotiations with the foreign
oil companies which will increase its share in the profits from oil production.



-5-
The recent drought in Indonesia is likely to have reduced rice output, but
stocks are normal and not much additional imports were needed to maintain
domestic price stability.
17.       The country has a substantial potential for productive investment,
employment and income growth. In agriculture, vigorous pursuit of ongoing
programs in irrigation, development of new plant varieties and technical
services, provision of credit and current inputs, etc. promise to yield
high returns. In addition, there are opportunities for the development of
new areas of food and plantation crops, partly in conjunction with a grow-
ing transmigration program. The industrial potential is good, both for
modern, capital intensive, natural resource-based activities, and for more
labor intensive, partly export-oriented industries.
PART II - RANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for
a development program which provides productive work opportunities (with
resultant increased incomes) for Indonesia's presently underemployed and
growing labor force. To assist the Government in attaining its goals the
Bank is planning to maintain or increase its lending to Indonesia and
in particular to support projects designed to: improve agricultural credit,
research and extension; rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems; improve
nutritional levels; assist transmigration and other land development outside
Java and Bali for and by smallholders; increase nonagricultural employment
in the rural areas and small towns through the establishment of small-scale
industries, rural credit schemes, vocational and nonformal education programs;
develop the electric power system; construct urgently needed water supply and
transport facilities; and expand the national family planning program.
19.       As of January 31, 1977, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits total-
ling $561.8 million and 21 Bank loans amounting to $1,026.5 million. At that
date, IFC investments totalled $59.6 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total external debt (disbursed) outstanding at the end of 1975
was about 5% and the share of debt service was less than 1%. By 1978 these
ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively. A
summary statement of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC   Investments as of
January 31, 1977, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are
contained in Annex II.
20.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
seven Bank loans and IDA credits for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
irrigation systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds production, beef
cattle, sugar, smallholder tea, smallholder rubber, agriculture research, food
crop extension services and transmigration. In the industrial sector, the
Bank has assisted in three projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production
and distribution capacity, three for development finance (Government-owned
and private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of industrial
enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial estate. Loans and credits



- 6 -
have also been extended to the education, telecommunications, tourism, power,
transportation (including highways, inter-island shipping and ports), popula-
tion, urban and water supply sectors. Also a loan was extended for a national
resource survey and mapping project and four credits for technical assistance
to aid the Government in preparing and formulating its development programs
and projects.
21.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels.
The Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the cost to
the country of the delays in project execution caused by cumbersome pro-
cedures and the need to establish an effective control system in BAPPENAS
(the National Development Planning Agency). At the Governxment's request,
the Bank has arranged for assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance
Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring and control system, which
it is hoped will lead tb better project administration.
22.       The proposed loan is the sixth presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia this year to
$258.5 million. Projects for nucleus estate smallholder development, irrigation,
BAPINDO, education, population planning, rural credit and small business
development are expected to be ready for presentation in the next several
months.
PART III - NUTRITION PROBLEMS IN INDONESIA /1
23.       Of the 135 million people in Indonesia, nearly 75 million
lack sufficient income to purchase food considered necessary for adequate
daily calorie and protein intake. Such poor nutrition has damaging effects
in terms of the health and wellbeing of the general populace and retards
the growth of the national economy, because those who are not vigorous and
healthy cannot perform productively. Recognizing the relationship between
nutrition, productivity and economic growth, the Government is initiating a
nutrition development project that will contribute, inter alia, to the
preparation and implementation of a national scale nutrition program. The
Government intends to follow policies and to execute programs which will
increase the production of foods with higher nutritional value, will reduce
losses of nutritional value in processing, storage and marketing, will
expand consumer understanding of nutrition and will directly provide nutri-
tional supplements to key portions of the population.
24.       Correcting widespread malnutrition requires coordinated action in
several sectors. In the agriculture sector, actions are planned to improve
the processing and storage of present food production, and to develop the
production of nutritionally higher value foods. At present, estimates
indicate that as much as 25% of annual crop production is lost due to lack of
/1 Information contained in this section is substantially the same as
presented in the Preliminary Report on this project distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 4, 1976 (R76-47).



-7-
adequate storage facilities. Also food grains frequently lose essential
nutrients during processing. At the production level it appears much can be
done to assist farmers to grow nutritionally more valuable grains, vegetables
and pulses, including the development and distribution of appropriate seeds, and
of fertilizer, credit and storage facilities. General education of the populace
to consume nutritionally more valuable foodstuffs is an essential ingredient in
actually achieving better nutrition on a major scale in both urban and rural
areas.
25.       Government is focusing its nutrition improvement activities on the
most vulnerable population groups, i.e. children under five years of age and
pregnant and lactating mothers. Since most of a child's mental and physical
development is determined by his nutrition intake prior to the age of five,
it is expected that better nutrition in this formative period would have
significant beneficial effects, including an expectation of better educational
performance. Over the long term this investment in people will also have a
beneficial impact on the availability of manpower to the economy and a
general increase in productivity.
Critical Categories and Causes of Malnutrition
26.       Government, with the assistance of various international organiza-
tions concerned with social conditions, has identified the most severe nutri-
tion problems plaguing Indonesia.
(a) Protein-Calorie Malnutrition (PCM). Inadequate intake of calories
and protein is the most basic nutrition problem in Indonesia.
Close to seven million children and about 5.6 million lactating mothers
are estimated to suffer from PCM. In 1974, a WHO sponsored team
determined from existing surveys that PCM among Indonesian children
was particularly severe: over 50% of the children under the age of
two in Java were found to suffer from second and third degree malnu-
trition. PCM is a major cause of Indonesia's high rate of infant
mortality, either directly or by lowering infants' resistance to
infectious disease. Infant deaths in Indonesia lie between 110 and
150 per 1,000, compared to about 38 per 1,000 in neighboring
Malaysia. If untreated, particularly before the age of two years,
PCM retards physical growth and impairs mental development. After
the age of three years, the recovery of lost growth caused by PCM
is extremely difficult, if not impossible.
(b)  Vitamin A Deficiency.  The incidence of vitamin A deficiency among
Indonesia's population, particularly among children, is one of the
highest in the world, affecting about 5% of the children in rural
Java and as much as 22% of those in urban squatter areas. This
deficiency affects growth, weakens resistance to disease, and
frequently leads to blindness.
(c) Iodine Deficiency. Goiter, caused by iodine deficiency, has been
prevalent in Indonesia for centuries. In its early stages, endemic



- 8 -
goiter may display no symptoms, but untreated goiter causes diffi-
culty in breathing and related throat problems. A recent study of
goiter among school children in parts of Java, Sumatra, and Bali
indicates that from 50 to 80% of the children have goiter. Iodine
deficiency can also lead to cretinism, which manifests itself
through a wide range of symptons: mental retardation, impaired
physical development, deafness, and neurological abnormalities. A
1973 study found more than 600,000 instances of cretinism in
various stages in Indonesia.
(d) Nutritional Anemia. Indonesia has the highest country incidence of
nutritional anemia ever recorded among males during nonfamine con-
ditions. In a joint research project undertaken in 1973 and 1974
by the Indonesian Nutrition Research Institute and the Bank the
prevalence of anemia among a sample population of male workers was
found to range from 28 to 52% depending on the geographical region.
More than three-quarters of the anemic workers suffered from iron
deficiency. Other studies showed that anemia was more severe among
non-pregnant women (35 to 85%) and extremely severe among pregnant
women (50 to 92%). Nutritional anemia leads to lower productivity,
lassitude and poor work habits, which in turn lead to lower incomes
and continued poor nutrition, and conversely correcting iron
deficiency stimulates increased productivity. A study done in
Indonesia in 1974 of productivity among nonanemic plantation
workers found them to be about 20% more productive than anemic
workers.
(e) Poor Eating Habits. A major factor in malnutrition throughout the
country is poor consumption patterns. Rice is the staple food,
frequently mixed with maize, cassava or sweet potatoes, for one of
the two meals per day. Since animal protein is expensive and
protein-rich vegetables are seasonal, most families do not consume
adequate amounts of protein. While locally processed soybean
products are popular, they are not available in sufficient quanti-
ties to provide adequate levels of protein or calories. A better
understanding of the nutrition content of foods by the general
public could lead to the consumption of the best available foods.
Present Efforts to Combat Malnutrition
27.       Since 1969 the Government has concentrated on expanding rice pro-
duction to keep pace with the growing consumption demand resulting from
population and income growth. Plans are now being made to intensify secondary
crop production. Research and extension services are being expanded, along
with fertilizer production, storage and distribution and the availability of
farm credit.
28.       The Government is also conducting several, relatively small-scale
nutrition activities. The Ministry of Health is administering a program
of applied nutrition in about 100 villages, which focuses on production and
consumption of foods rich in protein, vitamins, or minerals. Between 1970



- 9 -
and 1974 the Government received assistance for this effort from UNICEF, FAO,
and WHO. UNICEF has also assisted in distributing vitamin A capsules to
200,000 children and in developing a salt iodization program.
29.       These initial efforts to tackle the vast nutrition problems in the
country have contributed valuable information to the formulation of this
project. Major constraints on better program design and implementation in
the past have been the lack of baseline data, inadequate institutional capa-
city and insufficient trained manpower, all of which are addressed by the
proposed project.
Government Organization for Nutrition
30.'      The Ministry of Health has been primarily responsible for all nutri-
tion activities in Indonesia. In 1974 a Ministerial Committee was established
by Presidential Decree to coordinate and implement an overall national
nutrition program. The Committee, set up under the chairmanship of the
Minister of State for People's Welfare, consists of the Ministers of Finance,
Planning, Industry, Home Affairs, Agriculture, Education, Religion, Information
and Health. The Governors of Provinces and Bupatis (chief executives of
Kabupatens) have been made responsible for coordinating nutrition programs
within their respective areas of jurisdiction. In many areas the Governors
and Bupatis have established nutrition committees at provincial and kabupaten
(district) levels and provide advice on the coordination and implementation
of all nutrition activities.
31.       The Ministerial Nutrition Committee is advised by a Technical
Commission, chaired by the Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS. Membership consists
of working level representatives from the various ministries who form sub-
committees to formulate specific policy recommendations. A nutrition planner
has been appointed to a newly created post in BAPPENAS.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       This Nutrition Development Project was prepared by the Government
and appraisal was completed in July 1976. Appraisal Report No. 1318-IND is
being distributed separately. A loan and project summary appears in Annex
III and a supplementary data sheet in Annex IV. Negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C., January 17-21, 1977. The Borrower's delegation was led by
Dr. Soebekti, Director-General of Community Health, Ministry of Health.
Because nutrition is a new field for Bank lending, this project was presented
to the Executive Directors for a preliminary review in March 1976. As a
result of comments during this discussion, the proposed project was reshaped
to include not only nutrition research and development activities but also a
variety of pilot actions to improve nutrition and, inter alia, productivity.
(See para. 33(c), (e), (f), (g) and (j)).
33.       The proposed nutrition project would assist the Government in expanding
its present nutrition endeavors by strengthening institutions responsible for
nutrition research and by training personnel required for the execution of a
large-scale national nutrition program. In addition to the general linkage of



- 10 -
this project with Indonesia's development program, project activities would
complement current Bank-assisted projects in the fields of agriculture and
health by increasing not only the efficiency of food processing and storage
but also the availability to the poor of foods with particular nutritional
value. Specifically, the project is designed to assist the Government
in:
Strengthening Institutional Capacities by -
(a) Expanding the Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
under the Ministry of Health through the provision of funds for
additional staff, training, technical assistance, necessary equip-
ment and a modest expansion of physical facilities.
(b) Strengthening the Food Technology Development Center being set up
at the Agricultural University, Bogor, with provision of funds for
facilities, equipment, technical assistance and staff.
(c) Improving the planning, coordination and evaluation of nutrition
activities through technical assistance to the Ministries of
Health, Education and Agriculture.
Direct Nutrition Action Programs covering the -
(d) Initiation of a Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project through the
provision of funds for additional staff, training, technical
assistance, buildings, equipment and materials. These programs
will integrate nutrition, education, agricultural and health
activities and food supplementation to those people most affected
by malnourishment in 180 villages of seven districts with a popula-
tion of approximately 740,000.
(e) Increased production of nutritious vegetables and fruits in about
18,000 home/village gardens by provision of improved seeds, devel-
opment of model garden packages and intensification of extension
efforts.
(f) Improving food storage at village level through assistance to the
Food Technology Development Center which would, in collaboration
with the Ministry of Agriculture, develop an appropriate small-scale
storage program.
(g) Initiation of an iron supplementation program under the National
Institute for Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health to tackle
nutritional anemia among 3,000 families in a selected number of
plantations with a view to developing a national program to cover
all government and privately owned plantations.
Education and Training by -
(h) Instituting and testing the efficiency of alternative nutrition
communication methods to bring about desirable changes in nutrition
behavior.



- 11 -
(i) Upgrading and expanding the training of nutritionists in the
Academy of Nutrition at Jakarta by provision of equipment, staff and
necessary physical facilities.
(;) Improving the training of agricultural extension staff by intro-
ducing nutrition in the curriculum of the basic training centers
and the secondary agricultural schools of the Agency for Education,
Training and Extension.
Developing A National Food and Nutrition Plan by -
(k) Provision of technical services for the formulation of a national
food and nutrition program incorporating the most effective
elements of the nutrition activities initiated under the proposed
project.
Detailed Features
34.       The Center for Research and Development in Nutrition ($5.9 million).
In support of Government efforts to make its nutrition research facility more
operationally oriented, the project would provide assistance in research and
development program formulation, staff development, expansion of physical
facilities and organizational support. The work program will focus both on
operational research, with a view to assist the Government in formulating and
executing a national food and nutrition program and on monitoring and evalu-
ating nutrition field activities included under this project.
35.       Food Technology Development Center ($5.5 million).   Within the
Agricultural University of Bogor, a Food Technology Development Center is
being established to work primarily on developing improved technology
for village food storage and processing. Rural food storage units will
be constructed on a pilot basis so that their performance can be evaluated
in order to develop a national program of low cost village level storage
facilities. Operational research would also focus on assessing opportunities
for food fortification, preservation of perishable crops, increasing the
nutritional value of processed foods, utilization of waste products such as
rice bran, the improved processing of foods for urban markets and for export,
and methods of quality control.
Direct Nutrition Action Programs
36.       The Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project ($2.6 million).   This
scheme involves direct actions to improve the nutritional status of children
under the age of three, pregnant women, and lactating mothers in rural communi-
ties with the primary objectives of reducing protein calorie malnutrition and
related diseases. The action programs to be undertaken in 180 villages on an
experimental and developmental basis would include the immunization of about
100,000 children against infectious diseases; supplementary feeding of about
30,000 malnourished children under the age of 3 and of about 17,000 pregnant
and lactating women; the nutrition education of about 100,000 families; the
supply of iodized salt, vitamin A and iron supplements to the target popula-
tion; the training and supervision of village volunteers; the evaluation of
the effectiveness of the combined package of these measures; and technical
assistance to plan and implement these activities. The per capita costs for



- 12 -
supplemental feeding under the project are estimated to be $1.00 per year;
when expanded as a national program, annual per capita costs are expected to
decrease to about $0.23.
37.       The seven geographic locations for these trial action programs
will be selected so as to provide a representative sample of conditions in
Indonesia. The two districts selected for initial operations are situated in
the provinces of East Java and West Lombok. The two districts to be added in
the second year will be in Central Java and South Sumatra, and the final
three districts in Bali, West Java and Yogjakarta. Each district will be
identified on the basis of the following criteria: prevalence of malnutri-
tion; evidence of local administrative support; anticipated positive response
from the residents; agricultural conditions typical of the region; and
previous experience with the experimental Applied Nutrition Program.
38.       Action Program for Home/Village Gardens ($0.5 million).    Increasing
the production and availability of nutritious vegetables and fruits through
improvement of home/village gardens would be undertaken in villages selected
for the Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project with assistance from the
agricultural extension service. Assurances were received that ten additional
extension staff will be allocated for the home/village garden program (Section
3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, assurances were received from the
Government that after three years of operations the program would be reviewed
with the Bank to assess the feasibility of preparing a program to be imple-
mented in additional villages (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). A
total of 18,000 individual farmers would receive an initial supply of seeds
and other inputs needed for their home gardens.
39.       Action Program for On-Farm and Village Level Storage ($0.2 million).
As a corollary to production efforts, the project also includes construction
of small-scale storage facilities, built with local materials wherever possi-
ble, for those villages in the Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project which
have no storage facilities at present. Evidence now indicates that Indonesian
farmers are losing as much as 25 percent of their harvested crops due to pest
and rodent damages. Better storage facilities should reduce these losses.
Various types of storage facilities are planned, ranging in capacity from one
to ten tons.
40.       Anemia Prevention and Control Pilot Scheme ($0.2 million).    Correct-
ing iron deficiency of anemic plantation workers has been demonstrated to
lead to substantial increases in labor productivity. The main objective of
this component is to test the logistical feasibility of establishing a
delivery system for iron supplementation to plantation workers which could be
utilized on a national scale. This component would initiate an integrated
program of attack on nutritional anemia on two large plantations in East
Java, each with about 500 workers, and one plantation in North Sumatra, with
about 1,000 workers, taking full advantage of the plantation's system of
medical and health care facilities. The inclusion of 10 small, privately
owned plantations, each employing about 100 workers, is planned at a later
stage provided the Government establishes a health system where these plan-
tations are located in South Salawesi and West Sumatra.
Niutrition Education ($1.0 million)
41.       Poor eating habits, based on traditional preferences for various
foods, methods of preparation, distribution of food within a family, weaning



- 13 -
practices and feeding of sick children, all have an effect on the present
nutritional status of the populace. Under the proposed project, the most
critical behavioral constraints would be identified and effective measures
developed for a national program to bring about desirable changes in eating
habits.
42.       The immediate program would test the behavioral response of people
to nutrition communication in three districts, one each in Central Java,
Yogjakarta, and South Sumatra. In total, there will be 36 villages with about
110,000 beneficiaries during this trial phase. Following the evaluation of
various approaches using personal contacts through village cadres, seminars
and audio-visual equipment, nutrition messages will be developed for subse-
quent use on a national basis. These messages will be designed to utilize
the mass communications facilities provided through other government projects.
Nutrition Manpower Training ($1.7 million)
43.       Training for Nutritionists.   This component would provide additional
equipment, buildings and staff for the Academy of Nutrition, the major nutri-
tion school in Indonesia, increasing its output of nutritionists from 25 to
60 graduates a year. The Academy gives three years of training (post second-
ary school) in community nutrition and dietetics. At present, there are about
350 trained nutritionists in the country and estimates are that, by 1985, some
750 will be needed. Expansion of the Academy is expected to provide many of
the nutritionists required. The project would finance two teaching labora-
tories, a library, an audio-visual room with related facilities and equipment,
and fellowships for staff development and training.
44.       Training for Agriculture Extension Staff.   In order to improve the
effectiveness of the agriculture extension staff in the field of nutrition,
nutrition and home garden materials will be prepared for use in the agricul-
tural high schools and the agricultural training and extension centers. The
Agency for Education, Training and Extension of the Ministry of Agriculture
will work out detailed curricula. Training of extension workers specializing
in home gardens will be undertaken through the Rural Extension Center under
the Directorate General of Food Crops, Ministry of Agriculture.
National Food and Nutrition Program ($0.2 million)
45.       A nationwide action program will be formulated on the basis of
experience gained from the direct action components of this project and then
implemented with the strengthened institutional capacity and trained manpower
also developed as part of the project. Since many of the inputs for the
nationwide program to be undertaken in 1981 will be generated in the course
of project execution, the only expenditures required will be for appropriate
technical assistance.
Technical Assistance ($3.0 million)
46.       A total of about 40 man-years of technical assistance financed
under different components of the project would provide senior level experts in
the fields of community nutrition, food policy, nutrition research and food
technology to assist the Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
and the Food Technology Development Center. Consultancies for nutrition
education would include assistance for preparation of training manuals and



- 14 -
advice on educational material. Consultants will also assist in nutrition
education, field staff training and preparation of manuals for the Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project. At project management level, a management
specialist would advise the project director on the integrated operation of
different components of the project, and short-term consultants would assist
in monitoring and evaluation. The project also provides for consultants to
assist the Government in the formulation of a national food and nutrition
program and to assist the Planning Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture in
strengthening its food and nutrition unit. It is estimated that about half
the consultants will be expatriates for whom the estimated cost per man-year
is $70,000.
47.       Fellowships included in the project would provide training opportuni-
ties for 44 Indonesian experts, either locally or abroad, in nutrition and food
technology. Short-term study tours are also provided under the nutrition edu-
cation component for seven staff members of the Center for Manpower Training
in the Ministry of Health.
Project Organization, Management and Execution
48.       The overall coordination of the project would rest with the Director
General of Community Health in the Ministry of Health who, in his capacity as
Project Director, would be assisted by a full-time Project Manager, a Deputy
and a special staff for finance and procurement. A separate Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit consisting of two planning officers would also report to the
Project Manager. The Project Director would be responsible for (a) monitoring
progress of the project, (b) coordinating the activities of the different com-
ponents, and (c) controlling the flow of funds, as well as securing adequate
budgetary appropriations for the project components. The Project Director
would have the responsibility for making withdrawal requests to the Bank.
Assurances were received that following consultation with the Bank the
positions  of  Project Director,   Project Manager   and   Coordinator of the
National Intervention Pilot Project would be filled by experienced and quali-
fied personnel (Section 3.03 of the draft loan Agreement). Close collabora-
tion between the various research institutes involved in the project is
essential in order that research programs are more operational and have
nutritional significance. In this connection assurances were received that
a Research Coordinating Committee would be established no later than August 1,
1977  to    facilitate this coordination (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Provision has been made under technical assistance for experts
to advise the Committee from neighboring countries and the International Rice
Research Institute.
49.       The different components of the project would be implemented
within the existing organizational structure of the Government under project
co-directors appointed in each of the participating ministries, Home Affairs,
Education and Agriculture. Appointment of key project officials including
the Director, Co-Directors, Project Manager and the Coordinator of the
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project is being done in consultation with the
Bank. The Center for Research and Development in Nutrition, in the Ministry
of Health, and the Food Technology and Development Center, in the Ministry of
Education, would be administered by their respective directors, assisted by
additional financial and procurement staff for this project. The training
and nutrition education components would be the responsibility of the Chairman
for the Center of Manpower Training in the Ministry of Health. The Nutrition



- 15 -
Intervention Pilot Project would be administered at the national level
by a Coordinator stationed in the Ministry of Health, Jakarta, with an
ancillary staff and at the district level by the local nutrition officer.
Civil works involved in the project would be supervised by the engineering
organization of the Ministry of Health. The program to combat anemia among
plantation workers would be administered by the National Institute for
Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health, which would work in close colla-
boration with the Directorate General of Plantations, Ministry of Agriculture
and the Ministry of Health.
Project Cost
50.       Total project costs are estimated to be $26 million, including
foreign exchange costs of $10.2 million. A summary table of cost estimates
appears in Annex III. Cost estimates are based on June 1976 prices. Only
incremental operating costs ($5.5 million) related to the project are included
in the estimates. Physical and price contingencies totalling $7.2 million
have been included in the project as follows: physical contingencies at 10%
on civil works and 5% on all other items, and price contingencies on civil
works at 14% for 1976, 12% each year for 1977-79 and 10% for 1980; and for
equipment and services at 10% for 1976, 8% each year for 1977-79 and 7% for
1980.
Financing Arrangements
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $13 million would finance 50% of project
costs, including $2.8 million of local costs. Some local currency financing
is justified in social sector projects such as this for the reasons discussed
earlier (para. 15). Government contributions to the project would be budgeted
annually through the normal channels of each agency. These budget requests
would be approved by the Project Director.
Procurement
52.       Civil works contracts of $1.0 million or more would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Contracts below this amount would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, with no restriction on foreign
bidding, and in accordance with normal government procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank. For the purpose of bid comparison for civil works
contracts, local contractors would receive a preference of 7-1/2%.Contracts
for equipment, library supplies and furniture of $50,000 or more would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines; domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15%, or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over
the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Contracts for equipment, including
furniture, which cannot be grouped in packages of at least $50,000 could be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, locally advertised in accordance
with normal government procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
With respect to vehicles ($520,000), procurement would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding, subject to the Bank's guidelines. However,
for project start-up about 10 vehicles would be procured locally.



- 16 -
Disbursement
53.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would cover:
(a) 80% of civil works expenditures;
(b) 100% of the cost of consultant services, fellowships and project
staff in the office of the Project Director;
(c) 100% of the c.i.f. value of directly imported equipment, library
supplies and furniture, 95% of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured equipment, and 65% of the cost of imported
equipment procured locally.
(d) 100% of the c.i.f. value of directly imported vehicles and 40% of
the ex-factory cost of locally assembled vehicles.
Expenditures for consultant architects incurred after October 1976 would be
eligible for financing retroactively from the proceeds of the proposed loan
up to an amount of $50,000. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed within five years of loan effectiveness. A schedule of estimated
disbursements is given in Annex III.
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       To ensure that implementation of the project meets the prescribed
goals, key indicators of progress would be reported monthly to the Project
Director by each Project Officer. These reports would be reviewed by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and recommendations would be made to the
Project Manager. Each component will be evaluated on the basis of how
effectively it achieves initial targets. Progress will be monitored against
baseline surveys in each case. The Project Director will submit progress
reports semi-annually to Bappenas and the ministries for Health, Agriculture
and People's Welfare.
55.       The Center for Research and Development in Nutrition would under-
take the technical evaluation of the effectiveness of various project compo-
nents on a continuous basis with the results being utilized to redesign
individual elements as necessary. The Research Coordinating Committee would
evaluate the research.programs supported by the project and advise on the
direction of resources to high priority areas. On the basis of studies
undertaken by project entities and the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit the
Project Director would oversee the preparation of proposals for a national
food and nutrition program as described in para 45.
Benefits and Justification
56.       The proposed project would strengthen Indonesia's institutional and
personnel capacity to analyze the nature of the national nutrition problem
by research and development and by pilot operations to test the feasibility
and effectiveness of various measures to deal with the problem, and, to formulate
and subsequently to execute a large-scale action program. In the longer run the
national program of action to improve nutrition, which this project would help to
institute, would result in optimizing the use of food resources, in increasing
the quality and productivity of Indonesia's work force and in better utilization



- 17 -
of Indonesia's education system by a healthier group of students. The higher
rate of survival of children would probably also lead to a more suitable
atmosphere for effective family planning campaigns and may eventually
reduce desired family size. In the long run, implementation of the nutrition
strategy contained in the proposed project would bring benefits by optimizing
the use of food resources and by increasing labor productivity. This in turn
would improve the incomes of those whose malnutrition is a direct result of
their poverty.
57.       In addition to the major project benefits which are national in
scope, some immediate side-benefits can be expected from the pilot-scale
activities. These include:
(a) rehabilitation of over 30,000 children affected by protein calorie
malnutrition in 180 villages;
(b) exposure of about 100,000 families to nutrition education, including
45,000 pregnant women and lactating mothers (of these 17,000 would
receive food supplements);
(c) immunization of 100,000 children from infectious diseases;
(d) establishment of small-scale village storage units;
(e) establishment of 18,000 home and village gardens in
180 villages; and
(f) control of anemia through iron supplementation for 3,000 plantation
workers.
58.       Specific benefits would also accrue from coordination of the
proposed project with ongoing projects, some of them Bank-assisted, notably
in agriculture research, extension and credit.
Risks
59.       The proposed project carries an inherent risk because it involves
investments in an area of activity relatively new to Indonesia. A risk
specific to this project arises from the fact that its implementation involves
many Ministries and their coordinated actions. The Government, however, is
deeply committed to the project, and to the undertaking of a national program
of action to improve nutrition; is convinced of the need to strengthen inter-
ministerial coordination for this purpose; and,has set up a flexible organiz-
ational structure to manage the project. The risks are acceptable in view of
the substantial short- and long-term benefits expected of this project.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia
and the Bank, the report of the Loan Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Director
separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 16, 1977



-7                        00     NN0004     00   0   OOC          00      000
41     0
o      .                                                                                                                       .0                                      5
* . . .      . .      .0    000    0       00  0   0       -  0  0  0      0000
00   5    0-N   C..   ON       0109..                             0   06401  0       CC   0  0       N  0 0    5    6)0005
14   0401          04                9.  N         0  0
5 *               ;:;;                                                                      ooi                        0   'c                        N
9.-  00    9.-C .00    ON  C    00.-.  C*    0.
bi ZSO         N   SIC    NC   SON   NO   0    -.1140 0    0                   2104.0               000    00.0           C    N  00
5-       0    CO     0    0          -   00           0                   NIt  -
2    S..      54)  -N                                      0                                       C-S                                                       -
hSSk. S
Sbi -                                                                                                                        All
I SC  hi *                                                                                    -I.I                          f)
* 5   050         C   00     0000.-     C                        .     CC *       9-ICC .0     C C.    C no    . .           00   0  0              *        CCC *S
*    Cs *                                                      .     ..*         *...        ..                     .                .      .  .  .  .
* S   a 50        0   *N     ONCO0      N                              0          00-.0        O       CCC                   CO   0  -                       0...C
0S    1390        9.-  C     00100                                     09.-      .-4   -      0        C.)N                  Ii)-. -                            N
CS    25              0.0       -
05 5 N 9.-NC
*   aS                                                               N                                9.-
*s      S                                                                                                                                                           S
C  S                                                                                                                                                                5
a:
CS
hi S                                                                                                                                                                S
*0S     S                                                                                                                                                           S
05      5                                         --l-1--1-i             *1                              -I                          01                            S
025       5                               01       .'I.I11                                                                                                        S
05.5   ZkiS                                        >j-I-i                           T17111
S  bib-. S                            -I                                                                                                                          5
bias   01450       0    00     00 *0.-.   0    N     00   00    0       000        9.-.CCs)             COO     C              00  0   Cc     .0               00005
SO S 0050          -    00     NO  9.-IC  NO   C    000.  C.-   0       ONO        0009.-.              CCC     C              ON  N  CC       -               05600 5
005     - S        0    00     2-  0           -   0114         -       02         00   -               00     0              .0-. -. Nt                      0  0
5-05  9-CS..       -      0                                     0       -                               000
0   0615                                                      0       C                               40.-
S C   5                                                             0                               N
5501    5
50    5                                 0                                                             0101
SC   OS                                 -I -I                                                         4..I
Ski 0150        0   00     00 *CN     CEO  0    0019.1 C     0          *       . .  .       .       COO    CCC            CO   0  CC                      00000
SO    50        C   --     00   00    NO   9...  000  C      0                                       ceo    000            ON   N  00                      ONOC S
50    5         -   0      ON   C          -    00           0                                      9.-00   00-            0.. -   NO                      -  N
52    5         -     0                                      P4                                     0.0.0                                                  -
50 5 .05- 5
5     5                        I                                                                    'C                                                            S
5     s                                                                                                                                                           5
hiS    CS                       WI)               0I0I0I0                                    .01.01                                    -
OS     OSO        C   CC     000CC      - . C     oCt   CO     . .    COo         . . . .     CC      C   C   ccc    *       cc  a   cc       .  .  .  .     COONS
00   N  NC                *            5
05       5                      -                                                                      0  -
ZS                                                                    0                               -   -                                                         S
-s                                                         .          0                                0                                                            Ski
C       .-Si                                                                                                                                SO
2    .- 00                                      0                       0                 i.j
05        -    0.-CC          .-                -
0150     .4    0>7             .4              ...0    1011.1    C          C *0I        0     -                                              DC..-  S
C.*2            Oh.            0                72      C  Li     000.00     ..-502       00    2  2   0          C                            CCC   52
b-SC      a    ..N7            -                b-01    71.10      0.0CC     05014        001   01 &   5                        -               CO    50
05-       -.   00.-b-k,  -     r           r.     ,     oar       e..i..i..i..s  o sr'   6.7   0'-    -         C....i        2      0       0  ti' S
05.4      C    CC  05-         b-          -     .0     ooo       -coor      043        70      01>-c        o    -01         00      01       00  a so
5.4      0    77bJ5-.0                    b-   hI>     20        0,1235     0P SC..    0   .4  COO    C     b-   0>.   -      77     01       7000 52
250           000101,7 41     0   -             0       0.40     l.lIlil.il.il.I  75  0  ...flOO  *fl0  I)   0   flIeS  0     00     054      Orbs., 50
b-sr      a    coo      .-    C' 2         C    .-C     3-0       00000      356.-.     4.170   0      0     0    Ca.-.       CO   CObS         b-a  *.-
05        0    oo.0-.7  0         01      0       OI    I-tiC      0.00)     050        1000   6.40.4  0          C.          00   0(47.-     0    C SI-.
0      -,     5.     LI        00   0         t)0.-.b-.o            -.-.o    1.1Cr-C-C'    S b-    5000   Chibjo  -      0     0.. hi     =    S.721      biOftUisO
as OO.ooio,o...                   0   01 b-lI   .40       0.4     70727      CSO7SC 00          CCC          2  .407700       010  hjC*001     Coil-C *7
*  OC   Cs   OS,.b-0       b-b-b-CO  7        1..  C  0>     ZO      010   2*1-           2 sc..2  0.5200. 0.   -  =      lo 070.4>0         OC-cam..      -a--   s.-
O   * - 05   .-ss  - .94 000.-It..,.-      7  COOO    CIII   = 0     (100  0 5116 01.1.   050.4   OSC7C    .41.07  l     C aC'.onaoo      CoulCa    4.      .TO Sb.
0 n  0 5    5 0  0 = 0  LI 0 0 .42 0  *  C   0 0     0 .1> 01     0  0    5 2 0 0 C C  .4 5  .4 b- S    C C C 0  7     .4 C 7 .401 0 0  0 0 01 b- 01 0 1-  0  0 C 5 61
OSCC    '.S  CS01  72.-..oC          0.    0    0CC    C2  24.1      0.2   b- 5-            SOC   OSCOC    a  0    b-    .40.4000Cc        Ca   .430...    000-.. 50
a-tOn 5 50 01 * b-lob-Or 0 b-I4.0.b.7LiS.1ou U00S001i)010 9Cr 050)0101 flidOT 4 C,70r 2244 0.400102.4 610010.
15.-    05   Oso   01.11  0b-b-OLAOO       0   0000    20  2  C         0105.itocc        C Sb-C  b-50.CC  00.101  01    C, 700100         h.11..4 *0   00   250
0  5    b- 5  2  5   C    0 0 0 C  01 C     .4  -     61 01  2  0    C I..  -  5 0  I>. N   5     2  5        01 01       2  0, 0 *.4 2  Li a  C  3 0 ..i a  .40  01 01 0 01  5 2
-.5     015  Os?   20     b-b-MI, 06. 2    2   5-000  CC   002)      CIJr  OSO            750>    75222    00, =   1.    0.. C0,.Jb.,01    02CC  .4-.ib-   01 b-  So
S     CS     55' C>.    CrC   00   0     0  002.0   2   .400      004., b-SOb-b-      C 5719.    SOr rb.0123..          CO     COb-     C  3C0011, 25010005
Os      05   250000           0010         0  0    -  010) 00     b-SOC0OS. COb-b-I... 5          090000100        -      0006.070              -  301  Cl5b101LI7 SO
hiS .01* 5.5 b- b-CO OCt12 0 0.42 0 COrk. CC 00 OSaMO 0506.0100 05CC- 2.1-09.- 00016 C 2.0102500.6.4 OSIJCO.4b-SCOcoS01
S 5 .401  5 0 4 0  0       000010000           b- 9.-b->  011  0 Mi 0  01 5  .4 C S C 7 701 It  2, 50101  0 5 00 0 0 0 5- 0  05,- 0 0  0 - 0  7 0 010 0  hi 1- 5 70 C S b-
O 505-I C S b-S .4 .400   .400kC     .41-C  2  0      tiC  .41.101  1 S.400  5 0040       0 *22     S.4.4.4 l4..iC 5 7  oS 0.-.Li0ob-  0  0S0000   .4   0 Sr-bib-C SC.
SOW 615 OsO ObAhi 400200 000 0 000 20.4005007 MiSkOOCO OSOt 05000 00 5- b-5000101.00a 750050hi040 190001052
OSOC C S ast CC a b-m.Scoao aOL 0 hi 00 hISI 700 0 Sb-001 7 5070.4.4 C Son 1- 50CC OLiC OCSIOOO'.LI 0 0S0440 010b- OSOOb)79
* Sb-c    S 050    0      o         0     0  10      001  0      -iSOCO   05             b-S     .4,000   01      01 5450    hi 0   0  0 Shim.) Li 0   05   OabJ ski
05      75   CSC   C      C          0      -.1 0     ObI 0       as b-an  11509          OSSfl)  0.000    0       flbScC>.005a0                   0    75000,7561
.55     *5   05                                                   15       75             I-..5   015                 05                05              05        50
05   CS                                                   hiS      05             05      74                  hiS               75              01s       S



Page 2 of I. pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 eand 1961, for 1970 bet .een 1968 and 1970 and for Nest Recent Retinal. bet.een
1973 and 1975.
*Including Woot Irian.
esThe l9hiiippioee h.o beeo oselected as an objective country for its geographical slollArity and because of ito apparent advanced stage of economie
de-liopment.
INhONESLIA       1960   FiEcludes Woot Irian;          lb  1963;     ac   1951-56;     /d   1962;    /.   1961463;     /f   10 years and over, ability to read
or write in either Latin or non-latlo characters.
1970   14   1961-71;     lb   1971;     Is  Including sidsives;      /d   Total hospital beds incmplete.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATEs      La   1970-75;     1b   1971 -7h;    /c  Rcludes West Irian;        1d  Mostly unessploysd sorbers seeking their
first job;      /4  Incmae recipiast;      If   1972;    La   10 years end aver, ability to read end write
in sither Latin or non-Latin characters;-        /h  Total hospitel beds incomplete, 1971;        La   Not
comparable with 1970j       a4   1971.
R6NOLAI)H        '970   /a   1966-67;     Ab  1967-68;      Ic  Registered, not all practicinig in tbs country;        /d   Government hospital establishments
only;     Ia  Approletet enrollment as pemenotage of population in 6-i0 and 11-15 age groups reapectively.
INDIA            1970   /a   1967-68;     /b  5-10 years of age;       /c  1967.
PHILIFPINES      1970   /aAn. percentage of ssployeent;         /b   7-12 and 13-16 yaro of age respectively;         /c   Not including private vocational
schoels or vocational short-tern courses;         /d  1967, households;      /e   Inside only;     /f   Imports only.
RU4, February 11, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCLkL INDICAIORS
Lund Area tLi- be 2                                                                     Popuistine Per cursine p-rcn - Population divided by macher of pr-oti-
Total1   Total surfae ure     comprising mond cr0    aod iniacd watero.                    cing maIn and fema1e graduate nuse, 'trained" or "c-eiftd"
Aeric     M-ou   recen  notn-te of agrilo   t-lra  ora unod tonporarily or                  .cure, and anuliliary par..non1s with training or sepcri-enu.
Perra.ee-fly far craps, punture, narint & bitoben gardens or to lie                   Popoistiss per hospitai bed - PoPaistion divided by nonber of hospital
Put1lee,                                                                                bed, analuble in public and pelnote generl1 and s0eolali-ed hospital
and rehabfilitation centers; ea           --n nring hnn.. and establishments
GNP Pee v-plta (US$    - GNP' pcr cnptu entinutes at cu.rret nerhet prices,                fnr cus todial and prevnti-e earn.
calculted by     -ec c-   er- -  nntbud an Wanld Bu-b Atias (1973-75 basis),          Po,ecapita supply of canis(7 of cnnuireents) - Computed fr.n
196y, 1970 and 1975 datu.                                                               energy equienient nf n-t food aapplieu available in country Per ouPita
Per day; avilable napplite     -upeine don     tesi  prnductiun, inporto lean
Pocolaccun and uliul niaulecics                                     ex~~~~~ports  end changes in otock; net euppli-e eocladn sntna   f-ed, sends,
.P.,paluti   ~(nid-e. oillion) - As of July first:     if not available,                   qua..titie- ao   ic food procnong end Ins..e. In distribution, requIre-
unerge of two end- year e      ntn     1960, 1970 sod i975 data.                         -entn enre etinuted by FAO baaed on pbynillgleaI neds for nnr1o
activity and heI .th, coeider ingenv...     noalteperatre, body weigb ta,
Papulatlac dov.ecty - per sua...e bn -NHd-year population pee square kilo-                 ag  and seo dist-chotion    of population, and af1o-ing 10% foe waste
etr(liio b_taros) uf Ctta     area,                                                  at b..osehold level.
dvaann0enact  -cc P   var    e   foni.       -ad - Cnpoted us above for           Per  -plta supply of   -rtnin (uruo .- dam) - Protein cotn             f per
agiutua  ad   _ely.                                                              capita net supply of fnod Per day; e-t supply uP food is defined an
abuon  reqaterets     o   all no..ntris.a.etablished by USDA Eonnole
Vital statintics                                                                           Reserob Se-icr      pe_idn for . vinioe allowance of 6f grnn of
Ce-n blebh into pen tha,nand, u-eruge - Annual Ine- births per thousan.d                   total protein pee day, and 70 grans of animal and paine prnteis, nf
uf~"__ cl-yo ppostn;te-y-s urichoei              avrgeedn          is160ad                hbiob 10 gr-n hboald be anialpoti,          these   tndards a ro lowe.r
'510, n.,d fiv-yearavragevncv         I      195frms      eet sofn       0               ba  ths     f75gaaofPtto             prtei  an       grm  of anmlPrto
Grade death .tae Per tuousa-, Iecuc I- Ancual deotbo per tbo..asad uP nid-                 a  an -e-rge for tbe -or1d, prnposed by PAO in tbe Third HnrLd Food
year pnplafine, ten-yea,r nibein avrag.es           nding is 1960 aed 1970 and           Sorvey.
fieccyear aunrago    ending in 1975 for most recent estinate.                         Poe capita protein sneply froo anisal and poise - Protein sopply of Pood
Infant eartcisty rate (tn)- Aoe-al d-atb           of infants under one year               deemed Pen     ntui    and pn1... en grams Per day.
eP age per thoasa.nd   Ive, buribo,.                                                  Death rate C/thea) auns i-b - Aenual deaths per thn....vd in age group
LIfeeneetovu atbini(i)- A-ocge nunber nf years of life remain-                        i-b yearn, to children iv tbin ago gr-p, soggnnted as       -vsdicatn-      f
org at birth; n-lly five-year      -merge    evd-ng In 1960, 1970 andnaottn.
1975 fur d....ivyng -nut-e
Gr-ns rercdvttc- rate - A-eog         e-ber of Ive d-aghte- sawonan        illi          Ed ...tl-
bear in hnrn...nsI     prpodacclv  parcod if she eep,en,eoe     pree...t age-         Adjusted sralleent ratio - peLnery sohnol - Enrletoelagsn
epcf frI  ly eten    ualy floe-yne      eregss ding Is 1960,                     peroentage nf prinsry e-bol-age popalatins; Inolado           children ae
1970 and 1975 for developing e-nctrira.                                                 b-Il year hot adjosted for different lengthn of prinaysdunution;
PoPulation grcuth r.at  (. - total - Compoun.d aeoaaI gruth rates af nid-                  fee ...antries with onl-r-1a education, en-11-et may e.eoed 1007.
year popalutie    Poe  950-60, 1960-70 -nd 1970-75.                                      since  -on  popiln aRe bl-e n     above the official sohonI age.
,Peu.ut-no gecot     rate 11) - o-b-o - Cnpotrd like grooth rote of tuta1               Adlueted enrollment rtie -secendory schonl - Cooputed an abn-,
popolatlan, diffe-vvr dofioitin ef urban -ea nay affect ce.para-                         secend aty edoation requires at least four years of appe-ed primay
hility of data among -o-triea..aroln                                                                   pes-ides general, --eti-nal or teacher training
Ueban yaplaot-on (7. of total) - fetim of urban tn total popelatien,                       inst-otlu.n f.e popln of 12 in 17 years of age, correspondence
dIfferent definitins of urban      laru  may affeet em-parability of fats                corses are ge...eally enniaded.
a-og contries                                                                         Years of schooling provided (first and n.ennd level) - Tote1 years of
A92 I        rcnttEhude            (-byer)        ayig-g        15h     eers),         anhoolieg; at ..e..ndary level, vatlosa1 intetnitoc sap be par-
and retired    years nnd over) us pernentagna of r,id-year population.                tiaIly -c o-pirtely roclnded.
Aae -eed-ev       rtELo -a ilute of populatio  acdee 15 and 65 and -eer tn                . Patinna1 enenlmont C. ef secon dary) - Voostiana1 institutions
thos  of aga 15 through64.                                                               include techninai, industrIal or other prograe which eperate
iocno... deedns eI             Ratio of population under IS and 65 and ee                  independently or as departments of sceondary in.stitatiens.
to the labor f... inage g..n.p of~15-64 years.                                        Adult literaev eats (7.      - Literate ada1ta (abls to red and write) as
_amiy elnoenn     oteeoe_       (_aaitge       thoo) - Cunu.i-to    number of             psecentage of fetal adalt populatime aged 15 years and over.
eccrptorn ef brLeh-cortel1 de-i- under ...spicen of national family
PlanningS Progra   sinneleneytlo.Hosn
Family pinl_ai     use   a   7.of erne.d aon        Percentages of narledPesn per rome (urban) - Average member of persons per ro.n is
aeme n of ohiid-heariog age (15-44 years w-ho us      birth-gontrn1 de-ices              e-pied    -e-etio..aI d-elilegs in urban areas         dwellings  -aolnde
te all earned woven in name ago group,                                                  nan-per vaneni steoturn.aend -o....npied parts.
Oc...rLed dunlinas eithnut Ppied oter (7.       - Onc-pied ce.nveniona1
fmplovmrnt                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings in urban and e-ral  -area  ithout inside er eutaide piped
Ttllbr f-ece (thousa.nd)   - henoilcaIly    otboe persons, inolodleg                 eater facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
armed fonrcee and -nepIoyed     o,tIeclding bousewixen, students, etc.;               Aole-- to sl1-trioitv (. af all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings
defniln t     in nari..o  .. onuriee   are nt iovaeble.                                  ilth e1eetrioity in olinig quarters as pece-nt        fetal. dwellings in
Lahoe for-e in ageicltore      (%) - Agric-ltoral laorforne (in farming,                   urban and rural ares
fo-ntry, hunting and fishing) as pero...tage of total labor feron.                     or-a1 dwellinan commented tn sl1-trility (7.) - Coepated as above for
Unoamploord,(7 uP- lnboe force) -Unemployed are usually.de.fined an                        rura    doellinge only.
pore on  who are able and    ling to     ab a   job, Ie of     jo   on a
guody, rmied outof Ratjo, and seking each far anoi                e                os    to
nincoum period not e-ceding one weeb; nay not b hecoparable betwee.n                  Radio ecer       (per thou pup) - All types ofrievs fee radio broad-
cutisdue to differen,tidefinitions of enplopYed cad snores of                      casts to general pnbllo per thoonand of population; ... Iud.a
data, e.g.,Ieplo ynent nfie. attintuca,        sampleuro-yn, ronpuloery                  onILnennd rece.iver      incou-trinn end in years    be e.ngitato        f
_nempleymeet ienaruoc.e.                                                                 radio sets was in effeit; data for reoret years nay not he canparable
singe net ....ntrein     ablished licensIng.
Inom   Distribution - Perntoge af pri-ate incoe-      (both in numb and                ..aa.onaer oArs (per then eon) -P .a.aengee oars nenpeise entor cars
bind) rleIved by r      _ebet 57., rich.nt 207., p--et 207., and poorest                 sea ting less than night pereens; nacludesahlaes            hoarues and
il0. nf house.hold0,                                                                     military vehicle..
Elnetricity (kwh/yr per cap)     A- Anu1 cenauptiec nf industrial,       -em-
Dlistelbotion of land e   ership - Pere.ntages of land eweed by ...sItibet                 m.enial5 public and private electiity in bil-tet heurn per capita;
107. and ponrent 107. ef land owners                                                     generalip based an prndnotion data, -cth-otaloac            fur ln...es in
grids but allowing far imports and enports of eletricity.
Health and Natrution                                                                     Nro-print (ba/yr per car) - Per oaplta annual consmption In bilogrums
Pepolationac pebvphntain - Popalat-on d-vided by camber of pranticing                      estimated from d.Onteto production pins net imports ef newsprint.
physiclans qualified free a medical acho1 at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Gross National Product in 1974                               Annual Rate of Growth
(X, constant prices)
US$ Mil.     %          1960-65    1965-70     1974
GNP at Market Prices               22,479     100.0            1.9      4.9        5.6
Gross D)omestic Investment          4,330      19.3            3.3     11.5       19.2
Gross National Saving               4,251      18.9            5.8      5.1      64.8
Current Account Balance                79       0.4
Exports of Goods NFS (net oil)      4,351      19.4            1.5      7.8       0.5
Imports of Goods, NFS               4,220      18.8           0.2      10.9      33.2
Output, Labor Force and
Productivity in 1971
Value Added /I     Labor Force /2 V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mil.     %      Mil.  _ %        US$      _$
Agriculture                         4,221      44.8    30.5   69.0      138      65.0
Industry                            1,915     20.3      3.0    6.8      638     300.0
Services                            3,279      34.9     8.3    18.8     395      185.0
Unallocated                           -         -       2.4    5.4
Total/Average                     .___        . 
9,415     100.0    44.2   100.0     213      100.0
Government Finance
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)           % of GDP
1975/76*  1974/75     1974   1973
Current Receipts                    2,166    1,759     17.9    15.0
Current Expenditure                 1,296    1,001     10.2   10.8
Current Surplus                       870      758      7.7     4.2
Capital Expenditures                1,273      966      9.8     7.3
External Assistance (net)             403     234       2.4    3.2
* Provisional estimates.
Money, Credit and Prices                 1970     1971    1972     1973    1974     1975
(Billion Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      330     469     695      987   1,452    1,995
Bank Credit to Public Sector               57       78      16       27    - 36       44
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and State Enterprises                   306      442     587      928   1,364   2,619
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            9.9    12.8     15.2    14.6     14.8
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 - 100)    612      638     680      891   1,253    1,492
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                         12.3     4.2      6.6    31.0    40.6     19.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector              - 5.0     36.8   -79.5     68.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and State Enterprises                    77.9     44.4    32.3     58.1    47.0     92.0
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
/1  Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 = US$1.
/2  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallcoated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not available.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of It pages
TRADE PADMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974      1975      1976                                      US $ Min     %
(Millions US $)       Provisional
Exports t                      2173     4351     4738       6033         Oil (not)                      1897     50-4
Oil (net)                    564      2169     2921       3650         Rubber                          416     11.0
Non oil                     1609      2182     1817       2383         Timber                          602     16.0
Imports                      -2817     -4220    -5533     -6297          Palm oil                       132       3.5
Resource gap          13T                     - 795     - 264          Tin                            138       3.7
Factor service:               9s8      - 210    - 462     - 745          Coffee                           99      2.6
Interest                      %F     -64       = 178    -318
Investment income          - 112     - 146    - 284     - 427      All other commodities              LB)      12 B
Balance on current account - 802       -  79    -1257      -1009          Total                        3767     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       290       462      497        432   EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                572       664     23Q5      2136                                               US $ H_n
Amortization               -   8     -  80    - 322     - 420
Subtotal M 55                           4     2073      1716      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              7875
Capital Grants                   52        62      N. *                on-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             217     - 126    -2250      - 205     Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 83    - 214    -  46      - 418
Increase in Reserves (-)        32        w      -9983        516   DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
Gross Reserves (end year)       806      1472      590      1919*                                                 .
Net Reserves    (end year)       783     147f      489      1567      Public Debt   incl. guaranteed           10.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          4        4      120        152
of which:   Petroleum          2        1      116        146
Exports
of which:   Petroleum (net)  564     2169      2921      3529   IBRD/IDA Lending(January   31. 1977)(Million US$)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD         IDA
Thro.Uh  July 1o71              Since AuguBt 1971               Outstanding & Disbursed              227.1         411.6
_?  ~    ~         10   =~Undisbursed                                             798.4         -150.2
US $ 1.00 = RP 4                US $ 1. 00 = Up. 415            Outtsanding incl. Undisbursed      1,025.5         561.8
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excludifng factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
*As of October 1976                                   not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 16 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 16 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1977)
Loan/                                                           US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                         Amounts (less cancellations)
Number     Year               Purpose                    Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Eight credits closed                                              104.3 /a     0.0
127       1969    Irrigation Rehabilitation                         5.0        0.0
155       1969    Agricultural Estates                             16.0        0.1
194       1970    Second Agricultural Estates                      17.0        0.7
195       1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation                 18.5       0.6
219       1971    Education                                         4.6        0.1
220       1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                  14.5       1.2
246       1971    Seeds                                             7.5        1.6
259       1971    Tea                                              15.0        3.1
260       1971    Second Highway                                   34.0        0.7
288       1972    Second Education                                  6.3       1.9
289       1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.5       0.8
300       1972    Population                                       13.2       7.0
310       1972    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)              10.0       0.8
318       1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                 8.5       2.7
319       1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                      11.0       4.8
334       1973    Second Electricity Distribution                  40.0       6.1
355       1973    Beef Cattle Development                           3.6        1.6
358       1973    North Sumatera Smallholder                        5.0        1.7
Development
387       1973    Third Education                                  13.5       8.4
388       1973    Third Highway                                    14.0        3.2
399       1973    West Java Thermal Power                          46.0       16.6
400       1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                7.8        7.0
405       1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                    50.0      10.4
428       1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                    16.5      11.2
436       1974    Private Development Finance Co.
(PDFCI)                                        10.0       6.5
451       1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                       5.0       4.3
479       1974    Bali Tourism                                     16.0      14.6
480       1974    Fisheries Credit                                  6.5       3.7
514       1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                   30.0      28.8



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16 pages
Loan/                                                             (US$ Million)
Credit    Fiscal                                         Amounts (less cancellation)
Number     Year                 Purpose                     Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1005      1974    Railway                                  48.0              38.6
1040      1975    Jakarta Urban Development                25.0               8.3
1049      1975    Five Cities Water Supply                  14.5             12.6
13.4      1975    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II)     50.0              26.2
1089      1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion             115.0              13.4
1100      1975    Sixth Irrigation                         65.0              61.1
1127      1975    Fourth Power                             41.0              34.4
1139      1976    Fertilizer Distribution                  68.0              27.7
1179      1976    Agricultural Research and Extension      21.5              21.5
1197      1976    National Resource Survey and Mapping     13.0              13.0
1236      1976    Fourth Highway                          130.0             128.8
1237      1976    Fourth Education                          37.0             36.2
1250      1976     Second Shipping                          54.0             54.0
1254      1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion (PUSRI IV)     70.0             48.6
1259      1976    Fifth Power                               90.0             90.0
1267      1976    National Food Crops Extensions            22.0             22.0
1268      1976    Seventh Irrigation                        33.0             32.5
1318 /b   1977    Transmigration & Rural Development        30.0             30.0
1336 lb   1977    Second Urban Development                 52.5              52.5
1337 lb   1977    Tanjung Priok Port                        32.0             32.0
1363 /b   1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. (PDFCI)                    15.0              15.0
Total                                 1,026.5   561.8     948.6
of which has been repaid                0.9     0.0
Total now outstanding                 1,025.6   561.8
Amount sold                   0.1
of which has been repaid    0.0         0.1     0.0
Total now held by
Bank & IDA /c                       1,025.5   561.8
Total undisbursed                       798.4   150.2     948.6
/a Net of $0.4 million cancellation.
/b Not yet effective.
/c Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                          US$ Million
Year                                                     Loan   Equity   Total
1971       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement          10.6     2.5      13.1
1971       P. T. Unitex                   Textiles         2.5     0.8       3.3
1971       P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles        2.0      0.5      2.5
1971       P. T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable            2.8     0.4       3.2
1972       P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles        4.5      1.5      6.0
1973       P. T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism         11.0      -       11.0
1973       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement           5.4     0.7       6.1
1974       P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles        2.0      0.3      2.3
1974       P. T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics      0.9      -        0.9
1974       P   T. PDFCI                   Devl. Fin. Co.    -      0.5       0.5
1974       P. T. Kamaltex                 Textile          2.4     0.6       3.0
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement           5.0     1.5       6.5
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement            -      1.1       1.1
1977       P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles         0.1      -       0.1
Total                                          49.2    10.1     59.6
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled            21.6     1.7     23.8
Total held by IFC                              27.6     8.7     36.3
Undisbursed (including participants
portion)                                    3.7     0.7      4.4



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 16 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Cr. No. 127 Irrigation Rehabilitation: U$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Effective Date: March 25, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
All civil works were completed on March 31, 1976 and the credit is
fully committed.
Cr. No. 155 Agricultural Estates: US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
The credit is fully commited.
Cr. No. 194 Second Agricultural Estates: US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project progress is good in the oil palm group which has sur-
passed the appraisal report target for new planting by 100%. Progress in the
rubber group has been unsatisfactory with only 50% of the appraisal report
target for new planting achieved. Planting costs are excessive and investment
planning weak. The project has suffered from management deficiencies and
shortage of funds for investment. Following several representations by the
Bank, the Minister of Agriculture has recently made the necessary changes in
management of the rubber group. The Government is expected to review its
financial policies, particularly with regard to dividends and finance, to
ensure sufficient finance to implement investment programs.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16 pages
Cr. No. 195 Second Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1977.
Progress has been delayed by initial difficulties in equipment
procurement and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction
costs. Project completion will therefore be about 2-1/2 years behind
schedule. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and
hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
expected to improve following the allocation by the Central Government of
operation and maintenance funds substantially higher than last year's
levels, as part of its commitment under the seventh irrigation project.
The credit is about 96% disbursed and the remaining funds will finance all
outstanding civil works. The estimated project cost has more than doubled
since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract quan-
tities, but the economic rate of return remains satisfactory because rice
prices and yields have been higher than those projected during appraisal.
Cr. No. 219 Education: US$4.6 Million Credit of November 6, 1970:
Effective Date: January 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
All civil works have been completed and the Credit fully committed.
Cr. No. 220 Third Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Overall project completion is expected by July 1977, about two
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties
in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy
rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently high inflation rates
and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been mainly overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is expected to improve following the allocation by the Central Government of
operation and maintenance funds substantially higher than last year's levels,
as part of its commitment under the seventh irrigation project. The esti-
mated project cost is about twice the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and
yields substantially higher than those projected at appraisal enable the
project to retain an economic rate of return over 20%.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16 pages
Cr. No. 246 Seeds: US$7.5 Itillion Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Construction of the irrigation infrastructure and the seeds pro-
cessing plant has been completed satisfactorily. The Credit is due to close
by September 30, 1977. It is likely that land development at Sukamandi will
be limited to about 1,600 ha (65% of appraisal estimates) by that date to
enable the project authorities to consolidate production and other operations.
Significant results for 1976/77 expressed as percentages of appraisal esti-
mates are expected to be: (a) area under production - 1,800 ha (58%), (b)
yields of rice seed - 3.5 tons per ha (87%), and (c) production of certified
seed - 4,900 tons (42%). It is clear that due mainly to the delay in the
development of irrigation infrastructure, and partly due to overly optimistic
assumptions during appraisal, the targets for per ha yield and certified seed
production will not be achieved by September 1977. The project also envisaged
the development of 2,000 ha in three districts for seed multiplication. Due
to cost escalations and implementation difficulties, only one district,
Klaten, has been developed, and the total area developed to-date is about 200 ha
out of a total of 500 ha. Based on present levels of production the
National Seeds Corporation (NSC) is not commercially viable and will need
continued financial support from Government. The future of the project and
of NSC depend on Government policy for implementation of the further develop-
ment of the seed industry.
Cr. No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal expec-
tations necessitating construction and rehabilitation of three additional
factories. Project completion, estimated for December 1977, can probabl'y he
advanced. Rising costs are creating pressure on available funds and the main
challenge for the two PTPs will be to reduce working capital requirements, as
well as overhead and indirect costs, and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December.31, 1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overrun has been relatively
small despite sharp price increases due to efforts to reduce construction
quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services. Construction work is
completed; however, postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1978 has
been agreed to permit payments for the completion of detailed engineering for
the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to reconsider road
design standards in relation to those recently developed for the highway better-
ment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations regarding standards
for urban portions of the road.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16 pages
Cr. No. 288 Second Education: US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 30, 1978.
The project is about 12 months behind schedule because of late
appointment of consultant architects and lack of funds to meet cost overruns.
The main causes of delay have ben overcome and significant progress is being
made.  All civil works and about 90% of the furniture and equipment have been
contracted. The expert service is virtually completed. Progress of the
fellowship program and teacher training is satisfactory. The shortage of
full-time teachers, however, continues because of a Government embargo on new
recruitment. The Government has now made budgetary provisions to meet the
cost overruns. Disbursements have improved. Delayed implementation required
postponement of the closing date by 15 months to March 30, 1978.
Cr. No 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
price escalation due to unexpected inflation. The bulk of the remaining work
will be accomplished largely with Government funds, since all but about
$1 million of the credit has been disbursed. Postponement of the closing date
for the credit beyond June 30, 1977 may be required. Feasibility studies
included in the project have been completed and groundwater investigations
are nearing completion; interim reports were received in November 1976.
Cr. No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1973.
General progress of this project is satisfactory. All vehicles
have been procured and are in the field; population education is now being
worked into formal and non-formal7curricula; the lay field workers program
is fully operational; mobile information units are in use and more audio-visual
material is being prepared; support for a,variety of family planning research
topics continues; an.d advisors have been provided for specific program needs.
Implementation of civil works is now proceeding well after initial delays;
the Government has provided funds for MCH/FP centers from other sources, and
is expected to propose a corresponding reduction in project content. The
national family planning program, of which the project is an integral part,
continues to expand in terms of new acceptors recruited annually and the
program is effectively reaching rural villages.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 16 pages
Cr. No. 310 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I): US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977.
Prior to the original Closing Date which was December 31, 1976,
about $700,000 remained uncommitted and the Closing Date has therefore been
postponed to March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Progress on this project is slow but funds are expected to be
fully committed by September 30, 1977. Due to substantial cost increases,
only about half of the anticipated tonnage will be rehabilitated.
Cr. No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972: Effective date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Physical progress of the project which is being executed by PNP/X,
a Government-owned estate group, continues to be satisfactory, with plant-
ings of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent
condition. Coffee is a promising crop, and cloves planted in 1974 are
growing well. A hybrid coconut seed garden has been established, the first
in Indonesia. PNP/X management need to pay more attention to cost control
and to financial planning. Substantial cost increases have taken place
largely due to an expansion in the size of the program compared with appraisal
estimates. The Government has agreed to provide part of the short-
fall in project funding and discussions with the Government are proceeding
on a proposed increase in the budgetary allocation. PNP/X will participate in
the execution of smallholder development under the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND.)
Cr. No. 334 Second Electricity Distribution: US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND and
334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays due to procure-
ment problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result the project is
two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties have been resolved
and recent progress is encouraging and no further delays are expected. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16 pages
Cr. No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission undertook
a thorough project review and its recommendations, which include major changes
in project scope and objectives, are presently under discussion with Government.
Cr. No. 358 North Sumatera Smallholder Development: US$5 Million
Credit of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The full project program of oil palm and rubber planting by small-
holder participants should be completed by the end of 1977 at the present
rate of progress, which is now ahead of schedule. Costs of the project have
increased from $10 million estimated at appraisal to about $26 million by the
completion of the project. However, higher than anticipated output of and
prices for rubber and palm oil and changes in project development techniques
have more than compensated the cost increase and the project's return to the
economy is likely to be higher than anticipated at appraisal. In spite of
the impressive physical progress achieved, it has not proven possible to
develop any effective credit mechanism for the credit assisted portion of the
project. The Government will supply the funds for maintenance of plantings
through project completion at end of 1981. Supervision by IDA will continue
up to this date.
Cr. No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1,
1973; Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Distribution of the first 31 million textbooks has been
completed in all but the most remote areas. Teacher training continues to
proceed on schedule and teaching equipment has been procured and is being
repackaged in Jakarta for delivery to teacher training centers. Project manage-
ment has been strengthened by addition of Indonesian staff to a reorganized
project unit, and by recruitment of specialists under a technical assistance
contract signed with UNESCO.
Cr. No. 388 Third Highways: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections included in
the project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have
been delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and heavy rains; Closing



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 16 pages
Date is likely to be postponed by one year. Project costs will likely exceed
original estimates by 70% mainly due to sharply escalated prices. The
training program has been successfully completed. Feasibility studies and
detailed engineering for the betterment program are nearing satisfactory com-
pletion.
Cr. No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 mw units at Muara Karang
were about 65% higher than estimated at the time of appraisal.
This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in an
increase in the total project cost of more than 100%. Government
will provide the additional funds required. PLN has satisfactorily met the
initial targets in its financial recovery plan provided for under the terms
of the Credit Agreement.
Cr. No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Due to a late start, only 734 ha of smallholder tea has been
replanted or rehabilitated instead of 860 ha and thus the project is about
15% behind appraisal targets. It is estimated however that physical devel-
opment will be on target by the end of 1977. During 1975/76 the spin-off of
project to non-project smallholders has been excellent; about 350 ha of tea
was rehabilitated or replanted using funds outside the credit program.
Estate development has not yet started but it should also be on schedule by
the end of 1977. Tea prices for project farmers are well above appraisal
estimates. Project costs are estimated to be about 90% above appraisal
estimates and Government and project participants will have to finance the
overrun; alternatively project targets may have to be reduced.
Cr. No. 405 Sugar Industry Rehabilitation: US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The scope of the project has been reduced by the deletion of six
minor rehabilitations from the project description due to cost overruns.
The revised project consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories
and the construction of a new factory. Due to late project start-up and
delays in arranging consultancy services, project completion will be delayed
by one year. Civil works construction and installation of equipment is on
schedule and progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 16 pages
Cr. No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is developing satisfactorally and project completion
is scheduled for December 1981. Of 430 ha earmarked for the project, about
270 ha had been acquired by September 1976, and 128 ha had been developed
for occupation. Seventy-four factories are located on the estate of which
37 are operating and 37 are in various stages of construction or commission.
Factory employment is 16,275 and an estimated 1,400 are employed on average
in both factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are
profitable.
Cr. No. 436  Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI):  US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorally. As of December
31, 1976, the Credit was almost fully committed.
Cr. No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial difficulties.
The evaluations of project tenders have been approved by IDA. Infrastruc-
ture construction started in July 1976 and completion is scheduled for
October 1979. Budgetary allocations as requested by the Bali Tourism Devel-
opment Corporation for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Preliminary discussions
with three potential hotel investors are underway.Promotional efforts to
attract additional fnvestors and tourists have been intensified during early
1976, and additional flights from Sydney and Hong Kong to Bali have been
approved by the Minister of Communications and Tourism.
Cr. No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8. 1975: Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project has been making satisfactory
progress. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon has begun, and contracts
for boat construction and equipment have been awarded. Fishpond construction
is proceeding well. Bidding for ice plant construction should start soon.
The justification for the trawler subproject is being reviewed by the Govern-
ment.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 16 pages
Cr. No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to initial procurement difficulties and delays in the appointment
of the Jatiluhur Authority's President Director and the engagement of consultants,
execution of the first of four civil works contracts will start in February
1977, about a year behind the original schedule. A review of the latest project
cost estimate indicates substantial cost overruns which will be verified after
the evaluation of bid prices for the first civil works contract early in 1977.
Loan No. 1005  Railway:   US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been slow due to poor
organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now improved. The bulk of the
contracts have been signed. Passenger traffic in 1975 was slightly lower than
in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic has continued to
decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive power.
Although tariffs were raised in May 1975, increasing passenger revenues by
about 25% and freight revenues by about 10%, the operating ratio is likely
to deteriorate further, as operating costs have continued to rise at a faster
rate.
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress on the Kampung Improvement Program has been very good; costs
were less than estimated, allowing additional work to be undertaken. Execution
of the Klender Sites and Services Scheme is one year behind schedule due to
delays in obtaining approval of project design, but tenders for construction
have now been issued.
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is running
13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates of infla-
tion than anticipated is expected to increase project costs 25-30% above
the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents
have been completed and the project has reached its construction phase. The
reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering and the establishment
and development of local water enterprises are proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 16 pages
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The progress of this project has been satisfactory and the loan
is expected to be fully committed in the first quarter of 1977.
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
Work on the PUSRI III Fertilizer Expansion Project, which is
designed to have an annual capacity of 570,000 tons of urea, is about three
months ahead of schedule, and concerted efforts are being made to accelerate
the implementation of related gas project toa4&ep pace with the fertilizer
project. The plant was commissioned in January 1977. Total cost of PUSRI III
is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation: US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All of the activities have gotten off to a good start and slippage
has occurred only in appointment of two advisors. Design and construction
activities are progressing on schedule.
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the expansion of the Muara Karang thermal
power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW generating unit. The
general construction contracts covering this unit as well as the first two
financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded. The project is on schedule
and expected to be completed during 1979.
Loan No. 1139 Fertilizer Distribution: US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Ship construction and construction of the five bulk port depots are
proceeding satisfactorily with about 90% of contracts awarded. The first of
three ships has been delivered and the others are on schedule. It is expected
that port bulk depots will be available about April 1977 and the Inland Storage
Depots (ISDs) about October 1977. The final cost of the project is likely to be
some $30 million less than the original estimate of $130 million as a result of
lower foreign exchange and local costs than had been anticipated.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16 pages
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is still in its initial implementation phase due to
a delay in the appointment of executive architects and consultants for research
direction. These appointments are expected to be made shortly. Progress
on the extension component of the project is proceeding more satisfactorily.
The project is being closely supervised.
Loan No. 1197 National Resource Survey and Mapping Project: US$13.0
Mlillion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project agency, BAKOSURTANAL, has made considerable progress
since the Loan was signed. Several senior staff required for administration and
project procurement have been appointed and preliminary designs for project
facilities have been completed. The progress is satisfactory. Preparation
of equipment specifications and planning of aerial photography operations to
support detailed resource surveys of the southern Sumatra region are also
proceeding.
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan became effective on August 13, 1976. Ccntracts have been
signed or awarded for the construction of the first package of roads totalling
585 km and for eight of nine consultancy assignments. Tenders for the remaining
contracts will be called through March 1977. Progress is generally satisfactory
although somewhat behind the initial project implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation units have been established and the team
leaders for technical assistance are in place. Contracts with the consultant
architects have been signed. Site selection and acquisition are generally
satisfactory except in the manpower subproject, due to high site development
costs.
Loan No. 1250 Second Shipping Project: US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The appointment of a number of consultants has been delayed which
could cause a lag in the implementation of the project. The financial position
of the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, which may cause



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 16 pages
financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government is aware of
this potential problem and is considering taking steps to deal with it. The
project is being kept under close supervision.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The PURSI IV Fertilizer Project, which is designed to have an annual
capacity of 570,000 tons of urea, is about five months ahead of schedule,
but the related gas project is experiencing some delay. Efforts are being
made by the Government to accelerate the gas project. According to present
indications, PUSRI IV is likely to be commissioned in mid-September 1977. No
cost overrun is foreseen for this project.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effectiwe Date: September 20, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is underway.
Loan No. 1267 Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1268 Seventh Irrigation Project: US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Indonesian agencies involved in the project had taken the initial
steps required for prequalification and engagement of contractors and consul-
tants and had developed work programs, plans and schedules prior to Loan effec-
tiveness and thus the project was well ahead of the normal pace at the time
of loan effectiveness.
Loan No. 1318 Transmigration and Rural Development Project: US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan is expected to become effective by February 28, 1977.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This loan is expected to become effective in April 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16 pages
Loan No. 1337 Tanjung Priok Port Project: US$32 Million Loan
of November 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
This loan is expected to become effective in March 1977. Final
design by consultants is proceeding and the contract for supply of container
cranes has been let.
Loan No. 1363 Second PDFCI Project: US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan is expected to become effective in April 1977.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power Project:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977,
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan is expected to become effective in May 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDONESIA: NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                          $13 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Terms:                           20 years, including four and a half years of
grace, with interest at 8.5% per annum.
Project Description:             The proposed project would assist the
Government in the following activities:
(a) Strengthening the Center for Research and
Development in Nutrition, the Food Technology
Development Center, and the nutrition related
units within the Ministries of Health,
Education and Agriculture.
(b) Direct nutrition action programs, including
an integrated pilot project in seven rural
districts which would combine nutrition,
education, agricultural and health activities
with selective food supplementation to vul-
nerable target groups; a program to increase
the production of nutritious vegetables in
home and village gardens; a program for
village level storage; and a program of iron
supplementation for plantation workers.
(c) Testing of alternative methods of nutrition
education, and expanding the training faci-
lities and program at the Academy of Nutri-
tion in Jakarta and the agricultural training
centers and secondary agricultural schools.
(d) Preparation of a national food and nutrition
program based on the results of project activi-
ties.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Project Costs:                                 Local     Foreign      Total
------ ($ million) --------
Center for Research and Development
in Nutrition                                  3.4        2.5          5.9
Food Technology Development Center              2.4         3.1         5.5
Direct Nutrition Action Programs                2.8         0.7         3.5
Nutrition Education                             0.8         0.2         1.0
Nutrition Training                               1.3        0.4         1.7
Organization and Management                     0.6         0.4         1.0
Formulation of a National Food and
Nutrition Program                             0.1         0.1         0.2
Physical Contingencies                          0.7         0.5         1.2
Price Contingencies                             3.7         2.3         6.0
Total Project Cost                         15.8        10.2        26.0
Cost estimates are based on June 1976 prices.
Physical contingencies have been estimated
at 10% for civil works and 5% on all other
project items. Price contingencies have been
estimated on civil works at 14% for 1976, 12%
each year for 1977-79 and 10% for 1980; and for
equipment and services at 10% for 1976, 8% each
year for 1977-79 and 7% for 1980.
Financing:                    The proposed Bank loan would finance 50% of
total project costs. The remaining $13 millon
would be financed by the Borrower.
Estimated Disbursements:      Bank FY      1978    1979   1980   1981   1982
-------- ($ million) -----------
Annual         0.5    1.9    4.2    4.2    2.2
Cumulative     0.5    2.4    6.6   10.8   13.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Procurement:                  Civil works contracts ($5.9 million) would be
awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines with the exception of those with an
estimated value below $1.0 million which would
be awarded following competitive bidding,
locally advertised. For purposes of bid com-
parison for civil works contracts, local con-
tractors would receive a preference of 7-1/2%.
Equipment, including furniture, would be procured
following international competitive bidding with
the exception of contracts valued below $50,000
which would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding locally advertised. Domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% or the existing customs
duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price
of competing imports. Vehicles ($520,000) would
be procured on the basis of international compet-
itive bidding. A small number of vehicles
needed for the initial phase of the project
would be procured locally.
Consultants:                  Consultants ($1.5 million) would be retained
to provide the following services:
(a) preparation of nutrition education materials;
(b) nutrition education training;
(c) project management assistance for monitoring
and evaluation;
(d) assistance in formulation of national food and
nutriton program; and
(e) assistance in evaluating the nutritional aspects
of agricultural policy planning.
Project Benefits:             The proposed project would assist the Government
in improving the nutritional status of malnour-
ished target groups of the population in 180
villages and help develop a national food and
nutrition program along with adequate institu-
tional support and appropriately trained personnel
to carry it out.
Appraisal Report:             Report No. 1318-IND, dated February 16, 1977.
Agriculture and Rural Development Department.



ANNEX IV
INDONESIA
NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemenary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: three years.
(b) Project preparation coordinated by Bappenas.
(c) First presented to the Bank: January 1974.
First mission to consider project: September 1974.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: August 1975.
(e) Preliminary consideration by the Executive Directors: March 1976.
(f) Post-Appraisal Mission: July 1976.
(g) Completion of negotiations: January 21, 1977.
(h) Planned loan effectiveness: June 6, 1977.
Section II:. Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank supervision mission is scheduled for March-April 1977, to
assist in the initial stages of implementation of each project component.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to allocate necessary extension staff (para. 38);
(b) Government to review home/village garden program with the Bank
after three years of operation (para. 38);
(c) Government to appoint project officials (para. 48);
(d) Government to establish a Research Coordinating Committee
(para. 48).



IBRD 12201
,;.,>%>HAILAND  "v                              X>,                          6wY  V v5                      INDONESIA '357
I$f.RR)                                          I      ai >      2' v!PHILIPP NES                  NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Brun                                                    NUTRITION  INTERVENTION  PILOT PROJECT AREAS
BRUNEIR                                                                  C   IE CRCATRT
. - \t   0       \      ~~~Sou th  Chnor  Seoa      RNI.>(/                                                                     IEFERRFO
.< .g>, SMAlAYS IA                                                                                   I                        0  j),lOCtm RTAL NCPR PILOTRERCS
CA"'  S'                                                                                 II~~~~~/TROOIOCIALIN
'A       4~~A                                                                                                                       T
!AYSIA~                            M L AYS 'IA _  _       tRCROACIONALOUENOARIES
s                                   lx -  \ ,  ,a Y s t AJ ,,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-iG5,POJRAOOREN5T E5OA_E.IOMETE
-I       _           _    _ -  . . '''.  *t ./'2 oMiA.~11 l 9A
' N .  -- .                                                       ,-- --1             '    'ALMAHERA            CER                      0'
C'~~                                        ~ I  .  -               N?                 i                                         -   LRCTROCCC2 
* ~ ~~ ~~~1 -  -                                                             AFSTkGSARZ>
S                                    -t 1n                                                                     '' 5E1/tU,^/C  |  .I|  -  _,SCURS S. A
I   i '.   .      - -  I C C                                  -        'N  .,*iSOACL 
j_             '   '1s  -I,,                                              J          ...                                     ,          '   , _   ,:',''  '-j-
- -ARTA JA Ae /                                                   B o:2A  ne  d o Se o    1d        N-t.
IG ER5L JAVA  IR ENR CETALIEANTAS                -  to)---  f
SWE3JKRTiRA    IC5 SAACACALIACCGS                                         CUMC W      ,,A,                                                             -   s,
1_   CECRIA L CAR CRLU< TERTR  -1 *ER'RLEAL,GORGS400
1 JAKSOUTH SUMARTEA  IT SCOTT RSALACESIGARA 
13 ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   1                                                                 ID_UUD.h                                              _ ^. .......h 
100                                    a 1            1                 IZ                1 
COREl  R.SCRTAGLLOTRG  .nd n  .-seen              .STAA                                   .                 .                 .
C'  RRIAO  bO MGCO                                                                                                S   ICC  CCC   CC   ARC  see IA
- LC APE TLOS -  -Y " RCG - OS-  -ESNC-AI                                                       - 
AERRR      R TRC  CAC                                                                                                     IC CN  CC  C  C  9  O  C
ICTICAC                                                   N                C'IS                                E'                C~ OACNWIlT~OIC



