Report No. 1318-IND                                                          FILE  COPY
Indonesia: Appraisal of a
Nutrition Development Project
February 16, 1977
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          =  lupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 1          =  US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000  = US$2,410
WEIGHTS LND MEASURES
1 metric ton = 1,000 kilograms (kg)  =  2205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)   29.37 inches            =  3.28 feet = 1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)                        =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)              =  100 ha = 0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
AETE               Agency for (Agricultural) Education, Training and Extension
AN2=               Applied Nutrition Program
ANPO               Assistant Nutrition Program Officer
ARD          =     Agency for (Agricultural) Research and Development
BAPPEDA            Provincial Planning Authority
BAPPENAS     =     National Development and Planning Agency
BIMAS/INMAS        Mass Guidance Program for Self-sufficiency in Rice and
Palawija Crops
BPDG         =     Nutrition Improvement Coordinating Committee
BULOG        =     National Logistics Body - rice procurement agency
BUUD/KUD     =     Local Village Cooperative
CARE         =     Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CRLN               Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
FNU                Food and Nutrition Unit
FTDC         =     Food Technology Development Center
IPB                Agricultural University, Bogor
IRRI               International Rice Research Institute
mCR                Maternal and Child Health
MEU          =     Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
NILHOH             National Institute for Industrial Hygiene and Occupational
Health
NIPP               Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
NPO                Nutrition Program Officer
NRI                Nutrition Research Institute
PCM                Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
PKK                Members of Voluntary Organizations
PMD                Community Development Board
REC          =     Rural Extension Center
RILHOH             Regional Institute of Industrial Hygiene and Occupational
Health
TAC          =     Technical Advisory Committee
UDKP               Units for Community Development
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
UPGK *>            Unit for Family Health and Nutrition
USAID        =     United States Agency for International Development
VANPO        =     Village Assistant Nutrition Program Officer
WFP ;              World Food Program
WHO          =     World Health Organization
GLOSSARY
Bupati             Chief Executive of the Kabupaten
BUTSI              Indonesian Village Youth Corps
Camat        =     Executive Head of Sub-district
INPRES       =     Presidential Instruction
Kabupaten          Administrative Sub-division of a Province
Kampung      =     Villages
Kecametan    =     Sub-district Level of Provinces
Lurah        =     Village Headman or Chief
Walikota     =     Chief Executives of Sub-district



FORk OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT IN INDONESIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION                                          v
I.  INTRODUCTION ............................                       1
II.  BACKGROUND  .......................          .............. .  .....  2
A.  Nutrition and Economic Development         2.......        2
B.  The Nutrition Problem .................. ............      4
C.  Causes of Malnutrition . ...... .... .. ...-...* ..... .   6
D.  Actions to Counter Malnutrition                            8
E.  Existing Institutional and OrganizationaL
Structures for Nutrition Activities          ......    10
III.   THE PROJECT .............     ............................    11
A.  Goals and Strategy ..      ................. ..............  11
B.  Project Description ...................................   12
C.  Linkages of the Proposed Nutrition Project with
Ongoing Projects Assisted by the Bank .    ...........  14
D.  Detailed Features ....  ............ ....... .............  15
- Center for Research and Development in
Nutrition . ...............* ...............         15
-  Food Technology Development Center .............      16
- Direct Nutrition Action Programs ..    ..............  17
- The Nutrition Intervention Pilot FProject .....     17
- Action Program for Home/Village Gardens ......      20
- Action Program for On-Farm and Village Level
Storage   ..  ..................................  21
- Anemia Prevention and Control Pilot Project -
Plantations ..... ...... .o. ....................  21
- Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change ...      22
- Nutrition Manpower Training ......... I ............   24
- Assistance for Formulation of a National Food
and Nutrition Program           ...                 25
- Capital Works .25
- Technical Assistance    ..... . . ..                   26
IV.      COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS   ....         26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in August 1975. The appraisal mission consisted of: Mr. S.
Venkitaramanan (Chief of Mission), Dr. K. V. Ranganathan, Dr. T. Tiglao,
Mr. A. Shaw, Mr. D. Mills, Mr. E. Thomson, Mr. J. Worgan and Dr. M. Behar
(Consultants). Mr. Venkitaramanan made an updating mission in February
1976. A post-appraisal mission was made in June/July 1976 by Messrs.
E. M. Schebeck (Chief of Mission), S. Venkitaramanan and E. Thomson. The
missions were greatly assisted by Bank Resident Mission representatives.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . ................ .... ...........  31
A.  Project Organization  .... .......  .......... . ... .......  31
B.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................     33
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......... o ....................   35
VII.  AGREEMENTS  REACHED  ......... . . . .. .   .......................    . .............  38
ANNEXES
1.  Nutritional Status and Food Habits
2.  Center for Research and Development of Nutrition
3.  Food Technology Development Center
4.  Nutrition Intervention Pilot Program
5.  Anemia Prevention and Control Pilot Project
6.  Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change
7.  Manpower Training
8a. Project Organization
8b. Food and Nutrition Unit, Ministry of Agriculture
9.  Monitoring and Evaluation
10.  Civil Works
11.  Project Cost Estimates
12.  Disbursement Schedule
13.  Schedule of Technical Assistance
14.  Schedule of Key Implementation Actions



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       Despite significant improvements in real per capita incomes in
Indonesia in recent years, widespread malnutrition represents a constraint on
human productive capacity that hinders efforts to ach:Leve national development
goals. Malnutrition could be more effectively combated if nutrition problems
were better understood and if the institutions and personnel required were
developed to plan and conduct an effective national-scale program of research
and development and of action.
(ii)      Indonesia's development program addresses directly the problems of
employment, production, and income generation. Successful execution of the
program will have a significant impact on the nutritional status of the
population. Yet, actions to increase employment, output and incomes are
not by themselves sufficient to deal with the problems of malnutrition,
particularly of those who now, and probably for many years to come, will
be living in poverty.  In the context of Indonesia's overall development
strategy, nutrition activities are complementary to other efforts in agri-
culture, health and education. Well directed nutrition policies and pro-
grams can lower mortality and morbidity rates, contrilbute to raising pro-
ductivity levels, help to achieve family planning and education objectives,
optimize the use of available food resources, and improve the level of human
well-being which is the ultimate goal of all development activities. Nutri-
tion programs also serve as a direct means of improving income distribution
and the social and economic conditions of the disadvantaged portion of the
population.
(iii)     Nutrition problems - particularly protein-calorie malnutrition
(PCM), vitamin A and iodine deficiencies, and nutritional anemia - are wide-
spread throughout Indonesia.  The high rate of infant mortality - between
110 and 150 per 1,000 - can be traced in part to PCM. Malnutrition in
Indonesia is a result of a combination of different factors, foremost of
which are: inadequate production and inadequate availability of foods, and
especially nutritionally valuable foods, to a large proportion of the popu-
lation; and insufficient understanding of nutritional requirements.
(iv)      Indonesia's daily average per capita availability of food is about
1,880 calories and 43 daily grams of protein compared to a recommended re-
quirement of about 1,920 calories and 40 grams of protein. However, given
the income distribution in Indonesia, almost two-thirds of the population
is getting well below the required amounts. Since the First Development
Plan period (1969-74), the Government has concentrated on increased produc-
tion of rice, the main staple food, in an effort to keep pace with growing
requirements.
(v)       At the same time, the Government has become increasingly concerned
about the prevalence of malnutrition among its population and has committed
itself to improving this situation. Past Indonesian efforts, supported by



- ii -
UNICEF, WHO, CARE and FAQ, to achieve nutritional improvements have had
only moderate success because of their rather limited size and coverage.
The proposed project, which was prepared by an Indonesian task force, builds
on the experience from these activities. The Government's commitment towards
improving the nutritional status of Indonesia's poor is reflected by its in-
tention to develop and implement a comprehensive national nutrition program.
However, it now lacks basic prerequisites: sufficient manpower and institu-
tional capacity capable of planning and executing large-scale programs,
knowledge concerning the effectiveness of alternative forms of nutrition
interventions and delivery systems, and an adequate data base from which to
analyse the effectiveness of possible nutrition activities.
(vi)      The purpose of the proposed project is threefold.  First, it will
strengthen and expand the existing nucleus of personnel and institutions
in Indonesia to develop more effective capacity for: formulation and execu-
tion and evaluation of nutrition programs; operational research; and manpower
training in nutrition. Second, through field level action programs and their
evaluation, nationally replicable and cost-effective measures will be devel-
oped to improve the nutritional status of malnourished target groups. Third,
the combination of the above actions will aid the Government in the formula-
tion and execution of a more comprehensive food and nutrition program on a
national scale. More specifically, the proposed project, consisting of
several parallel components, would assist the Government in:
(a) Institution Building
(i)  strengthen the Center for Research and Development
in Nutrition (CRDN), under the Ministry of Health,
through funds for additional staff, training, tech-
nical assistance, necessary equipment and modest
expansion of physical facilities;
(ii) support the establishment of the Food Technology
Development Center (FTDC), under the Ministry of
Education, at the Agricultural University, with
physical facilities, equipment, training, technical
assistance and additional staff;
(iii) improve planning, coordination and evaluation of
nutrition activities through provision of technical
assistance to the Ministries of Health, Education and
Agriculture;
(b) Direct Nutrition Action Programs
(i) initiate a Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
(NIPP) - administered by the Ministry of Health -
through funds for additional staff, training, tech-
nical assistance, buildings, equipment and materials



- iii -
to provide integrated nutritional, educational,
agricultural and health activities and selective
food supplementation to vulnerable target groups
in seven Kabupatens, with a total populat:Lon of
about 740,000;
(ii)  increase the production of nutritious vegetables
and fruits in 18,000 home/village gardens through
provision of improved seeds, development of model
garden packages and intensification of agricultural
extension efforts;
(iii)  improve food storage, especially at the v-llage level
through assistance to the Food Technology Develop-
ment Center which would, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Agriculture, develop an appropriate
small-scale storage program for a total capacity of
300 tons for which financing would be prcvided;
(iv) initiate an iron supplementation program adminis-
tered under the National Institute for IrLdustrial
Hygiene and Occupational Health, through funds for
iron pills, iron fortified salt, medication and
materials to tackle nutritional anemia among 3,000
families in a selected number of plantatiLons with a
view to developing a national program to cover all
government and privately owned plantations;
(c) Education and Training
(i) implement and test the efficiency of alternative
nutrition communication methods affecting 110,000
beneficiaries to bring about desirable changes in
nutrition behavior through funds for equipment,
technical assistance and incremental operating
costs;
(ii) upgrade and expand the training of nutrition-
ists in the Academy of Nutrition at Jakarta, under
the Ministry of Health, by provision of equipment,
staff, training, technical assistance and necessary
physical facilities;
(iii) improve the training of agricultural ext:ensionists
by introduction of nutrition in the curriculum
of the basic training centers and of the secondary
agricultural schools of the Agency for Education,
Training and Extension through funds for curriculum
development, equipment and instructors; and



- iv -
(d) Assistance for Formulation of a National Food and Nutrition Program
assist the Government in the formulation of a national
food and nutrition program by taking into account inter
alia: the results of the evaluation of the various nu-
trition actions taken under the proposed project and
their cost effectiveness and replicability; manpower
availability; and the managerial skills and institu-
tions developed as a result of the project.
(vii)     Specific linkages would be established between the proposed pro-
ject and ongoing development activities, including those assisted by the
Bank, particularly agricultural research and extension and training, agri-
cultural credit, population programs and others.
(viii)    As a result of the project, the Government would have developed:
(a) a cadre of trained professionals and strengthened institutions equipped
to execute nutrition programs on a national scale; (b) an assessment of the
effectiveness of various direct nutrition action programs; (c) programs for
more efficient techniques of food storage and processing, and for fortifica-
tion of certain foods; (d) techniques for community education in nutrition;
(e) nutritional considerations in its agricultural programs; and (f) a com-
prehensive national food and nutrition program.
(ix)      In addition to the above benefits which are national in scope,
other immediate side benefits can be expected in the areas where direct
pilot nutrition action programs will have been carried out. Approximately
30,000 children affected by PCM would have been rehabilitated; about 110,000
families and 45,000 pregnant and/or lactating women would receive nutrition
education; 17,000 pregnant and/or lactating women would receive food supple-
ments; and 100,000 children would have been immunized from infectious diseases.
Some 18,000 farm families would participate in the home/village garden programc
and would improve their nutritional status through on-farm consumption. The
introduction of improved, low cost on-farm/village level storage facilities
would mark the beginning of a nationwide program to reduce food losses and
thereby to raise food availability. Since the proposed project is in a
pioneering field for Indonesia, it carries an inherent risk. A risk speci-
fic to this project arises from the fact that its implementation involves
many ministries and their coordinated actions. Organizational arrangements
included in the project are considered satisfactory to minimize this risk.
(x)       Each of the components of the proposed project would be implemented
within the existing organizational structure of the Government. The overall
coordination of the project would rest with the Director General of Community
Health in the Ministry of Health, who is the designated Project Director.
To ensure the full cooperation of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Educa-
tion and Agriculture, a part-time co-director within each of these minis-
tries, would work in close cooperation with the Project Director in iden-
tifying and solving problems of interministerial coordination. The CRDN,
in the Ministry of Health, and the FTDC, in the Ministry of Education, would
be administered by their respective directors. The NIPP component would be



v 
administered at the national level by a coordinator stationed in the Ministry
of Health. In the provinces, the Governor of the Provinace would be respon-
sible for coordination and implementation of NIPP. The Anemia Prevention and
Control Project would be administered by the National Institute for Industrial
Hygiene and Occupational Health, through delegation to its regional insti-
tutes, in close collaboration with the Directorate General of Plantations of
the Ministry of Agriculture and the NIPP Coordinator. Provision has also been
made for about 35 man-years of consultant specialists, for periods varying
from few weeks to four years, who would compensate for the current scarcity of
Indonesian personnel with training and experience necessary to support the
project. About 44 Indonesians would be provided with fellowships for training
in nutrition and food technology, either abroad or in Indonesia.
(xi)      Total costs of the proposed four-year project are estimated at
US$26 million (Rp 10.8 billion, including contingencies). The foreign
exchange component is about 40 percent. Out of the total base costs of
US$18.8 million, US$8.9 million are capital costs, US$3.O million are for
technical assistance, US$5.5 million are incremental operating costs, US$0.7
million are for agricultural activities and US$0.6 million are for evaluation.
Civil works contracts in excess of US$1.0 million would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines; domestic contractors would be given a 7 1/2 percent preference.
Contracts below US$1.0 million would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, with no restriction on bidding by foreign firms,
and in accordance with normal government procedures whLch are satisfactory to
the Bank. Equipment and furniture contracts in excess of US$50,000 would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines; domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15 percent or the existing customs duty, whichever is the lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Contracts for equipment and
furniture which cannot reasonably be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000
equivalent could be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally following normal government procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Procurement of vehicles (except for 10 required for start-up) would be
on the basis of international competitive bidding subject to Bank guidelines.
(xii)     Disbursement would be made at the rate of 100 percent against ex-
penditures for foreign and local consultants, fellowships, project staff in
the Office of the Project Director, directly imported equipment, library
supplies, furniture and vehicles; 95 percent of the ex-factory price of
equipment manufactured locally; 80 percent of civil works expenditures;
65 percent of imported equipment procured locally; and 40 percent of vehicles
procured locally. Expenditures for consultant architects incurred after
October 1975 would be financed retroactively from the proposed loan up to a
total of US$50,000 equivalent.
(xiii)    The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$13 million
equivalent to the Government of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a
grace period of 4 1/2 years.






INDONESIA
NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia is increasingly coincerned about the
prevalence of malnutrition among its population. Recognizing that the pri-
mary cause of malnutrition is inadequate availability of food, the Govern-
ment has undertaken major programs to increase the production and availabil-
ity of staple foods. It has also undertaken important supplementary programs
to remedy specific nutritional deficiencies and to upgrade health, feeding and
nutrition practices among the most nutritionally vulnerable. 1/ These limited
nutrition programs, however, have lacked the organized, systematic and sus-
tained approach needed to combat effectively malnutriticn, its causes and
its derivative ills on a national scale.
1.02      The Government has requested Bank assistance in:
(i) developing the institutional infrastructure
and the personnel necessary for effective
formulation, execution and evaluation of a
comprehensive national food and nutrition
program;
(ii) strengthening on-going programs of nutrition
research; and
(iii) improving food technology, nutrition education
and training.
In order that the national food and nutrition program will have the greatest
impact on nutritional status, a range of pilot action projects will be
required to test organizational arrangements, program costs and benefits,
and the feasibility of replicability on a national scale.
1/   The most nutritionally vulnerable include young children, pregnant
women and lactating mothers.



2-
1.03      The project is based upon a study prepared by an Indonesian task
force consisting of representatives of relevant ministries, established
in 1973 by the BAPPENAS (The National Development and Planning Agency),
with assistance from Bank staff, UNICEF, WHO, FAO and consultants. Proj-
ect appraisal commenced with missions in August/September 1975 and in
February 1976. In accordance with the special procedures established dur-
ing discussion of the Policy Guidelines for Bank Nutrition Activities, 1/
a preliminary report on this project was discussed by the Executive Direc-
tors on March 23, 1976. In the light of the Board discussion, further
work was carried out by a post-appraisal mission which visited Indonesia
in June 1976. The proposed project embodies changes which provide for pilot
action operations, closer ties to agricultural research, extension, and credit
activities and to the Government's nutrition action program. This project
would be the first Bank loan to Indonesia in the field of nutrition, but
substantial linkages are envisioned between this and other ongoing Bank
projects (see paras. 3.05 to 3.08).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Nutrition and Economic Development
2.01      While often a consequence of economic development in many coun-
tries, adequate nutrition is a precursor and pre-condition of better produc-
tivity and development. Indonesia's 1973 per capita GDP is estimated at
US$184. Although real per capita incomes have improved significantly in
recent years, it is estimated that some two-thirds of the population have
inadequate daily calorie and protein intake. Nutritional deficiency of
such a large part of Indonesia's population is not only a problem of human
concern but also of economic development. Well-directed nutrition policies
and investments can lower mortality and morbidity rates, contribute to in-
creases in productivity, help achieve family planning and education objec-
tives, serve as a direct means of income distribution and, in general, improve
the social and economic conditions of disadvantaged portions of the population.
1/   Document R73-247, October 21, 1973.



-3-
2.02      The relationship between better nutrition and. improved output has
been demonstrated in a number of studies. In Indonesia, studies have shown,
for instance, that non-anemic workers have a 20 percent. higher productivity
than that of anemic workers. 1/ Well organized feeding programs for indus-
trial workers in many parts of the world have demonstrated reduced rates
of accidents, absenteeism and labor turnover, resulting in improved skills
and greater productive capacity and output.
2.03      Improvement in nutrition also increases the efficiency of other
forms of investment in human capital. There is a positlive correlation
between nutritional status in early childhood and brain development, since
80 percent of eventual brain weight is reached during lthe first 24 months
of life. Malnutrition interferes with a child's ability to concentrate
and to learn. School performance of malnourished children is marked by
chronic absenteeism, high drop-out rates and high rates of grade repetition.
Investments in nutrition thus assist in better utilization of the education
system. Even if there is no guarantee of adequate nutrition in adulthood,
better nutrition in childhood or in utero enables the child to reach a higher
level of mental and physical development and so better adapt to the challenges
of adulthood.
2.04      Sound nutrition policies can optimize the use of available food
resources. Reducing food and nutrient losses through better storage, pro-
cessing and dietary combinations of foodstuffs increases the effective
availability of food at given production levels. Effective interaction
of nutrition policies with agricultural and economic policy actions is
therefore essential.
2.05      The relevance of nutrition to development in Indonesia has to
be seen in the broad context of the country's development strategy. To
establish an explicit relationship between improved nutritional status
of the population and employment and income generation is difficult.
Indonesia's development program, supported in many instances by multi
and bilateral aid programs, does address directly the problems of em-
ployment and income generation. Nutrition activities should be seen as
complementary to these efforts. Adequate nutrition improves the quality
of human capital both immediately and over the longer-run by increasing
1/   "Nutrition and Health of Indonesian Construction Workers:  Endurance
and Anemia", D. Karyadi and S. Basta, IBRD Staff Working Paper 152 (1973);
"Iron Deficiency and the Productivity of Adult Males in Indonesia,"
S. Basta and A. Churchill, IBRD Staff Working Paper 175 (1974).



production capacity of the current work force as well as the educability and
potential productivity of children. Besides promoting more effective use of
investments to develop agriculture, health and education, nutrition programs
can effect some income redistribution, particularly in rural areas, and help
reduce poverty.
B. The Nutrition Problem
2.06      The Government, in collaboration with various international agen-
cies, has identified four major nutrition problems in Indonesia: (i) pro-
tein-calorie malnutrition, (ii) vitamin A deficiency, (iii) iodine defi-
ciency, and (iv) nutritional anemia. These problems are wide-spread
throughout Indonesia, although regional, ecological and cultural differ-
ences, that affect food availability and consumption account for geo-
graphical variations in the nature and intensity of malnutrition (see
Annex 1).
Protein-Calorie Malnutrition (PCM)
2.07      Inadequate intake of calories and protein is the most basic nutri-
tion problem in Indonesia. Close to one-third of all children under the age
of five (about 7 million) are estimated to suffer from moderate to severe
PCM. In 1974, a WHO-sponsored team determined from existing surveys that
PCM among Indonesian children below the age of two was particularly severe:
over 50 percent of these children in Java were found to suffer from second
and third degree malnutrition (i.e. body-weights less than 75 percent and
60 percent respectively of the WHO norm). Pregnant women are another highly
vulnerable group, although insufficient study has been done to allow for a
reliable estimate of the incidence of PCM among this group. More than half
of all lactating mothers (about 5.6 million) are affected by moderate PCM.
2.08      PCM is a major cause of Indonesia's high rate of infant mortality,
either directly or by lowering infants' resistance to infectious disease.
Infant deaths in Indonesia lie between 110 and 150 per 1,000, compared to
infant mortality rates (per thousand live births) of 18 in North America,
139 in India, 142 in Pakistan and 38 in neighboring Malaysia, which has
considerable geographic and cultural similarities with Indonesia. If PCM
is untreated among survivors, particularly before the age of two years, it
retards physical growth and impairs mental development. After the age of
three years, the recovery of lost growth caused by PCM is extremely diffi-
cult if not impossible.



-5-
Vitamin A Deficiency
2.09      The incidence of vitamin A deficiency among ]:ndonesia's population,
particularly among children, is one of the highest in t:he world.  This defi-
ciency affects growth and weakens resistance to other nutritional diseases.
Prolonged vitamin A deficiency causes serious lesions of the eye, clinically
known as xerophthalmia, which compete with trachoma as a leading cause of
blindness in the country. The incidence of xerophthalmia among children
has been found to be 4-5 percent in rural Java, reaching up to 22 percent
in urban squatter areas.
Iodine Deficiency
2.10      Goiter, caused by iodine deficiency, has been prevalent in Indonesia
for centuries. In its early stages, endemic goiter may display no symptoms,
but untreated goiter causes difficulty in breathing, coughing and voice changes.
Recent studies show increasing incidence of goiter, 1/ especially among children.
(Between 50 to 80 percent of those surveyed in North and West Sumatra, East
Java and Bali were found to have goiter). Iodine deficiency can lead to
cretinism, a more serious iodine deficiency disease, which manifests itself
through a wide range of symptoms: mental retardation, impaired physical
development (dwarfism), deafness, deaf-mutism and neurological abnormalities.
A 1973 study indicates there are about 100,000 cases of cretinism, and about
500,000 mild cases of cretinism in Indonesia.
Nutritional Anemia
2.11      Indonesia has the highest country incidence of nutritional anemia
ever recorded in a male population during non-famine conditions. In a joint
research project undertaken in 1973 and 1974 by the Indonesian Nutrition
Research Institute and the Bank 2/, the prevalence of anemia among a sample
population of Indonesian male workers was found to be between 28 to 52 per-
cent. The variations reflect the incidence of anemia in different geograph-
ical regions. More than three-quarters of the anemic workers suffered from
iron deficiency. Anemia was also found to be prevalent among non-pregnant
women (35 to 85 percent) and among pregnant women (50 to 92 percent, mostly
1/   Nain, D.A. et al, "The Prevalence of Endemic Goiter among School Children
in Some Parts of Sumatra, Java and Bali, Indonesia" Second Asian Nutri-
tion Congress, Manila, 1973.
2/   D. Karyadi and S. Basta, "Nutrition and Health of Indonesia Construction
Workers," IBRD Staff Working Paper 152 (1973), and S. Basta and
A. Churchill, "Iron Deficiency and the Productivity of Adult Males in
Indonesia," IBRD Staff Working Paper 175 (1974).



-6-
due to iron deficiency). 1/ The results of the research projects corroborate
the findings of other field surveys indicating anemia as a major health prob-
lem. Nutritional anemia leads to lower productivity, lassitude and poor
work habits, which in turn lead to lower incomes and poor nutrition. The
1974 study found that productivity of non-anemic workers was about 20% higher
than that of anemic workers.
C. Causes of Malnutrition
2.12      Malnutrition in Indonesia is a result of a combination of factors,
mainly inadequate production and availability of food, inequitable distribution
of available food and insufficient awareness of the nutritional needs of and
by vulnerable groups. Poor food habits compound the problem. Concurrent
parasite infestations and infections adversely affect intake through reduc-
tion in appetite and absorption of needed nutrients. Indonesia's average per
capita availability of food is about 1880 calories and 43 grams of protein
compared to a recommended daily requirement of about 1920 calories and 40
grams of protein. 2/ However, these averages do not convey the seriousness
of the overall problem. Uneven distribution of income and unequal access
to food in Indonesia cause a substantial percentage of the population to be
in a state of chronic under-nutrition. While general economic development
strategies are required to correct income inadequacies, nutrition activities
can increase effective food availability and utilization especially for the
nutritionally vulnerable.
Food Production
2.13      Indonesia's First Five Year Development Plan period (1969-74) con-
centrated on increasing production of rice, the main staple food, through
improvement and development of irrigation facilities, appropriate pricing
policies, expanded and improved supply and distribution of fertilizer and
other inputs, provision of farm credit and extension services. Rice pro-
duction expanded at the rate of 4.7 percent per year. The production of
1/   Soekirman, "Priorities in Dealing with Nutrition Problems in Indonesia,"
Cornell International Nutrition Monograph Series (1974).
2/   The recommended daily requirements are based on FAQ/WHO Committee Recom-
mendations for Energy and Protein Requirements for the Southeast Asia
Region, Short-term targets (1973).



-7-
secondary crops, however, declined during this period. 1/ Based on cal-
orie content, the production of all food crops rose by only 3 percent per
year and did not keep pace with increased demand for food crops resulting
from higher incomes and-population growth. 2/
2.14      For the Second Five Year Development Plan period (1974-1979),
growth in rice production has been projected at 5 percent per annum.
Also, the Government plans to intensify secondary food crop production.
2.15      Preliminary indications suggest food wastages of up to 25 percent
due to storage and distribution losses and nutrient losses in processing.
The Government recognizes the need for an action program to improve food
processing, storage and marketing in order to make maximum use of agricultural
output.
Food Habits
2.16      Poor food habits and lack of awareness of niutritional requirements
among a large segment of the population adversely affect nutritional status,
particularly among the nutritionally vulnerable (for details see Annex 1).
In most areas, the preferred staple is rice, frequently mixed with maize,
cassava or sweet potatoes, for one of the two meals per day. Very few families
can afford to consume animal protein. Protein rich vegetables are seasonal
and are used only infrequently in meals. Locally processed soybean products
are popular, but are not available in sufficient quantities to provide adequate
levels of protein or calories.
2.17      Fortunately, breast-feeding of children, normally until the first
and often until the second year, is almost universally practised in rural
areas. But there is little understanding of the importance of additional
solid foods other than soft rice or bananas for children after 5-6 months.
Vegetables, meat and fish are generally not provided. to young children in any
form, due in part to local practices and beliefs that such foods may be
harmful.
1/   Maize, soybeans, groundnuts, cassava and other tubers.  For details on
crop production see IBRD Report No. 708-IND, 1975, p. 8.
2/   The population of Indonesia is estimated at 130 million and is in-
creasing at a rate of 2.3 percent per year. Because income levels
in Indonesia remains low (GDP was estimated at $184 per capita in 1973),
between 55 and 60 percent of income growth is translated into demand for
foodstuffs.



-8-
D. Actions to Counter Malnutrition
2.18      The Government is strongly committed to increase production and
availability of food. It recognizes that an increase in rice production
alone will not be sufficient to control malnutrition and is implementing
actions through the BIMAS/INMAS 1/ programs to increase production of diverse
food crops. The Bank has recently approved a National Food Crops Extension
Project which will intensify and expand the extension service for these
programs. However, further actions are required to meet the nutritional
needs of specific age and income groups. Although available data reveal
the gravity of the nutrition problem and general direction of action, the
Government's attempts to promote an intensified attack on the nutritional
problem are handicapped by insufficient manpower and institutional capacity
and by an inadequate data-base from which to analyze the effectiveness of
possible nutrition activities.
On-going Programs
2.19      Indonesia's on-going nutrition programs, though limited in scope,
supplement agricultural policies and reflect an appreciation of the gravity
and multi-sectoral nature of the problem.
The Applied Nutrition Program (ANP)
(a) The Applied Nutrition Program began in the
Province of Central Java in the early 1960s
and was supported until 1974 by UNICEF, FAO
and WHO. Since 1970, pilot projects have been
undertaken in over 100 villages. ANP projects
promote the production and consumption of pro-
tective 2/ and protein-rich foods (i.e. poultry,
milk and fish) through nutrition education. The
Ministry of Health currently supports and admi-
nisters the program with the participation of
the local administration and provincial and
regional nutrition committees.
1/   Mass guidance program for self-sufficiency in rice and palawija (pulses,
soyabeans and other intercropped varieties). The BIMAS program was
initiated in 1965/66 and by 1974/75 covered about 2.2 million ha of
rice land. Its key feature is an approach whereby eligible farmers
obtain credit for current inputs and for living allowance together with
extension service. The INMAS program commenced in 1967/68 to provide
subsidized inputs, without credit or extension.
2/   Protective foods are foods rich in vitamins and minerals, such as dark
green leafy vegetables, orange or yellow fruits and vegetables.



-9-
Vitamin A Distribution
(b) Assisted by UNICEF, the Ministry of Health,
over the last two years, has distributed
vitamin A capsules (each containing 200,000
internal units) to 200,000 children between
the ages of 1 and 4 years, or 1 percent of the
age-specific population, as a prophylaxis
against xerophthalmia.
Salt Iodization
(c) Agreement has recently been reached between
the Government and UNICEF on a program to
fortify 120,000 tons of salt per year with
potassium iodate in large state salt works
as protection against goiter. The possibi-
lity for iodating people's salts, i.e.,
salt produced by traditional methods in
small saltpans by cooperatives and other
producers is also under active investigatior.
Lipiodol
(d)  In areas where endemic cretinism is a serious
problem, injections of lipiodol, an iodine
compound dissolved in oil, are being car-
ried out.  This is expected to protect injected
persons for five years. The target of this
program, which began in 1975, is to cover
300,000 people per year.
Distribution of Milk Powder
(e) Milk powder has been provided to about 2,000
Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Centers wit:h
the assistance of the World Food Program (WFP)
since the early sixties.
School Feeding Programs
(f) In West Java, CARE has organized a school
feeding program that now covers approxi-
mately 300,000 children. Catholic Relief
Services and the Church World Service sup-
port feeding programs for a further 50,000
school children in Central Java.



- 10 -
2.20      These programs have been on a relatively small scale, diffuse in
character and content, and have lacked baseline nutritional data on which to
analyze their effectiveness. More importantly, adequate attention has not
been given to problems of inter-ministerial/inter-sectoral coordination at the
national and local levels. The ANP program, while successful in increasing
the awareness of nutritional problems in project areas, had few identifiable
benefits commensurate with the outlay. A 1973 evaluation of the program
indicated that the program placed too great an emphasis on increasing protein
intake, particularly of animal origin, which is not an economically feasible
solution for the majority of the population. The program also aimed at
blanket coverage of the population within small pilot areas rather than being
directed at those most in need. School feeding programs have relied on
imported foods and donations, but are now being scaled down, due to the re-
duction in available grant supply. No action program has been developed to
combat the widespread anemia. The effect of the distribution of milk powder
has been hampered by low and irregular attendance at MCH centers and admini-
strative problems. Less than two-thirds of the milk powder supplied has been
delivered to those attending the clinics, who are mainly the better off and the
better educated. The cost of vitamin A distribution in capsule form has been
high and can be regarded only as a temporary expedient. Food wastage in store
and processing is another serious problem which has not yet been tackled ade-
quately. In its plans to reduce food losses, the Government is hampered by
inadequate institutional capacity. However, despite their various short-
comings, these initiatives have contributed to an increase in general aware-
ness regarding nutrition problems in government circles and this review of
their respective implementation experiences has contributed valuable infor-
mation to the formulation of this project.
E. Existing Institutional and Organizational
Structures for Nutrition Activities
2.21      The Indonesian Nutrition Research Institute was established at
Bogor in 1960 under the administration of the Ministry of Health. In 1975,
its functions were broadened and it was converted into the Center for Research
and Development in Nutrition. The research undertaken at the Institute has
been essentially bio-medical in orientation. The present work program is of
good quality but is limited by shortages of staff, funds and equipment.
2.22      The Academy of Nutrition at Jakarta offers three years of train-
ing and awards Bachelor of Science degrees in nutrition to about twenty-
five graduates a year. In 1973, there were 417 trained nutritionists in
Indonesia 1/ -- less than half the number required to implement the pres-
ently proposed Government programs. The Government plans to post nutri-
tionists to 26 provinces and to each of the 260 Kabupatens, 2/ in addition
1/   352 are Bachelor of Science in Nutrition, 36 are Masters of Science,
one has a Doctorate in Nutrition and 28 are physicans.
2/   Kabupatens are administrative sub-divisions of provinces.



- 11 -
to providing dieticians for the large hospitals. At a higher level, nutri-
tion staff are required for medical schools and universities. The shortage
of adequately trained nutritionists is a major constraint on the level and
scope of nutrition activities.
2.23      The Ministry of Health has been primarily responsible for all
nutrition activities in Indonesia. Following a 1974 national nutrition
conference, a Presidential Instruction (INPRES) was issued on September 3,
1974, establishing a Ministerial Committee responsible for coordination and
implementation of an overall national nutrition program. The Committee is
chaired by the Minister of State for People's Welfare, and consists of the
Ministers of Finance, Planning, Industry, Interior, Agriculture, Education,
Religion, Information and Health. The Minister of Interior has instructed the
Governors of Provinces and Bupati (chief executives) of Kabupatens of their
responsibility for coordinating the existing nutrition programs, as well as
the proposed nutrition intervention program, within their respective areas of
jurisdiction. Subsequently, the nutrition committees established at provin-
cial and Kabupaten levels under the ANP have been strengthened in order that
they can provide advice on the coordination and implementation of all nutri-
tion activities. In provinces where ANP is not operating, similar committees
are being established.
2.24      The Ministerial Committee is advised by a Technical Commission,
chaired by the Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS, in charge of social welfare,
people's housing and health. Membership consists of working level represen-
tatives from the various ministries. The Technical Commission has appointed
sub-committees to make recommendations on policies regarding goiter, vitamin A
prophylaxis, a revised ANP program, nutrition education and breast-feeding.
In BAPPENAS, a nutrition planner has been placed in the Bureau of Social
Welfare, People's Housing and Health.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Strategy
3.01      The purpose of the proposed project is threefold.  First, it will
strengthen and expand the existing nucleus of personnel and institutions in
Indonesia, to bring about more effective capacity for: formulation and execu-
tion of nutrition programs; operational research; manpower training in nutri-
tion, and project monitoring and evaluation. Second, through field level
action programs and their evaluation, nationally replicable and cost-effec-
tive measures will be developed to improve the nutritional status of mal-
nourished target groups. Third, the combination of the above actions will
aid the Government in the formulation and execution of a more comprehensive
food and nutrition program on a national scale. On a national scale, the
objectives would be to:



- 12 -
(a) strengthen the institutional and technical capacity for
applied research and development of improved food tech-
nology at the village level in order to increase the
available quantity and quality of food;
(b) provide information to help rationalize food and agricul-
tural policies and programs, leading when appropriate
to increased investments in production of nutritious
foods;
(c) seek to bring about changes in food usage in order to
optimize the use of food resources so that nutritional
status can be improved and sustained without outside
assistance;
(d) interact with ongoing agricultural research programs to
develop nutritionally efficient crop varieties;
(e) provide a monitoring, evaluation and planning system to
assess and, if necessary, modify project action components
in the light of implementation experience; and
(f) assist in the formulation of a national food and nutri-
tion program and develop the managerial base for its
execution.
3.02      At the field level, the objective would be to evaluate the nutri-
tional impact, social acceptability, administrative feasibility, cost-effec-
tiveness and national replicability of various combinations of nutritional
activities, in sufficiently large but diverse areas including rural township.
These activities would be directed at pregnant women, lactating mothers,
children under the age of three years and anemic plantation labor, located
mainly in low-income communities. The package of nutrition measures under the
various pilot projects would emphasize: use of local food resources; production
of nutritious food in home gardens primarily for own consumption; integrating
existing knowledge with adaptations resulting from nutrition research; educa-
tion and manpower training; and better methods of village food processing,
preparation, storage and distribution.
B. Prolect Description
3.03      The proposed nutrition development project would assist the Govern-
ment in:



- 13 -
(a) Institution Building
(i) strengthen the Center for Research and Development
in Nutrition (CRDN), under the Ministry of Health,
through funds for additional staff, training, technical
assistance, necessary equipment and modest expansion
of physical facilities;
(ii) support the establishment of the Food Te.chnology
Development Center (FTDC), under the Ministry of
Education, at the Agricultural University, with
physical facilities, equipment, training, technical
assistance and additional staff;
(iii)  improve planning, coordination and evaluation
of nutrition activities through provision of tech-
nical assistance to the Ministries of Health, Education
and Agriculture;
(b) Direct Nutrition Action Programs
(i) initiate a Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
(NIPP) - administered by the Ministry of Health -
through funds for additional staff, training,
technical assistancev, buildings, equipment and
materials to provide integrated nutritional, educa-
tional, agricultural and health activities and se-
lective food supplementation to vulnerable target
groups in 180 villages of seven Kabupatens with a
population of about 740,000;
(ii) increase the production of nutritious vegetables
and fruits in 18,000 home/village gardens through
provision of improved seeds, development of model
garden packages and intensification of agricultural
extension efforts;
(iii) improve food storage, especially at the village level,
through assistance to the Food Technolcigy,Development
Center which would, in collaboration with the Ministry
of Agriculture, develop an appropriate small-scale
storage program for a total capacity of 300 tons for
which financing would be provided;
(iv)  initiate an iron supplementation program, administered
under the National Institute for Industrial Hygiene
and Occupational Health, through funds for iron
pills, iron fortified salt, medication and materials
to tackle nutritional anemia among 3,000 families
in a selected number of plantations with a view to
developing a national program to cover all government
and privately owned plantations;



- 14 -
(c) Education and Training
(i) initiate and test the efficiency of alternative
nutrition communication methods affecting 110,000
beneficiaries to bring about desirable changes in
nutrition behavior through funds for equipment,
technical assistance and incremental operating costs;
(ii) upgrade and expand the training of nutritionists in
the Academy of Nutrition at Jakarta, under the
Ministry of Health, by provision of equipment, staff,
training, technical assistance and necessary physical
facilities;
(iii) improve the training of agricultural extentionists by
introduction of nutrition in the curriculum of the
basic training centers and of the secondary agricultural
schools of the Agency for Education, Training and
Extension through funds for curriculum development,
equipment and instructors; and
(d) Assistance for Formulation of a National Food and Nutrition
Program
assist the Government in the preparation of
a national food and nutrition program by taking
into account inter alia: the results of the
evaluation of the various nutrition actions
taken up under the proposed project and their
cost effectiveness and replicability; manpower
availability; and the managerial skills and
institutions developed as a result of the
project.
C. Linkages of the Proposed Nutrition Project with Ongoing
Projects Assisted by the Bank
3.04      In addition to the general linkages between Indonesia's national
development program and nutrition (discussed in paras. 2.01 to 2.05), the
proposed project would establish specific ties with ongoing activities assisted
by the Bank. Most of these are agricultural projects 1/ which are aimed at
quantitative increases in production. The proposed nutrition development
project would complement these efforts by increasing the efficiency of process-
ing and storage and improving the quality of foods consumed by the poorer
sections of the population.
1/   Bank Group operations in Indonesia include 22 projects in the agri-
cultural sector. The total of loans and credits approved amounts to
US$528 million. These include: agricultural research and extension
(2), agricultural commodity estates (5), irrigation rehabilitation (8),
fertilizer (3), fisheries (2), beef cattle (1) and seeds (1).



- 15 -
3.05      The Government, through its National Food Crops Extension Project
(Bank Loan 1267-IND; implementation period 1977-1982), expects to increase
the number of field extension agents, provide them with adequate training,
improve the rural extension infrastructure and introduce sound extension
methodologies with emphasis on continuous training and regular farm visits.
While this extension project provides training solely for production support,
it also provides opportunities for future linkages with the nutrition devel-
opment project for educating extension workers at the Rural Extension Centers
in nutrition, horticulture and simple food-handling techniques. They could
then impart these methods to small farmers in an effort to encourage the
optimal production, storage and processing of foods, keeping in mind regional
and national nutrition requirements.
3.06      The Government's Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Bank
Loan 1179-IND; implementation period 1976 - 81), supports production-oriented
research for rice, "palawija" crops (maize, soybeans, sorghum and cassava),
highland vegetables and rubber, and assists in establishing national and
regional information centers to prepare materials needed for extension of
research findings to small farmers. The centers for research supported by the
nutrition development project would coordinate closely with agricultural
research centers to help set research priorities, and to increase the produc-
tion of more nutritious varieties of cereals, legumes and vegetables and to
improve methods of food storage and processing (see paras. 3.11 and 3.12).
The nutrition development project would provide for inc:lusion of nutrition and
horticulture into the curricula of the agricultural high schools and the
agricultural training and extension centers administered by the Agency for
Education, Training and Extension (AETE).
3.07      Indonesia has an active population program assisted by IDA Credit
300. Field staff of the proposed nutrition developmenl: project would evaluate
the relationship, disclosed in some studies, between improved nutritional
status and reduced infant mortality on the one hand, and reduced desired
family size and better acceptance of family planning onl the other.
3.08      Nutrition development would also be linked with other government
initiatives e.g., the Transmigration Project (Bank Loan 1318), the Second
Urban Development Project (Bank Loan 1336), and the proposed sugar project,
which would offer possibilities for fortification of sugar with micro-nutrients.
D. Detailed Features
The Center for Research and Development in Nutrition (US$5.9 million)
3.09      The operations of the Center for Research and Development in
Nutrition (CRDN), which is led by capable professionals, are presently
constrained by inadequate physical facilities and shortage of staff. The
project component would strengthen the CRDN to broaden the scope of its
activities so that it can undertake the nutritional and related opera-
tional research needed with a view to assisting the Government to formulate



- 16 -
and execute a national food and nutrition program (see Annex 2). The
component includes construction of additional laboratories, enlarging
present facilities (including the auditorium, library and staff housing),
provision of necessary equipment and assistance in research and development
program formulation. In addition, it would provide funds for recruitment and
training of additional staff (to expand the professional staff from the
present 12 to a total of 44), for consultants and for felLowships.
3.10      The Center will work closely with the Food Technology and Develop-
ment Center (FTDC), the Agency for (Agriculture) Research Development (ARD)
and the Agency for (Agricultural) Education, Training and Extension (AETE).
The latter two are supported under other Bank-assisted projects. In parti-
cular, work emphasis would be on planning, monitoring and evaluation of direct
nutrition intervention programs such as the NIPP field activities proposed
under this project (see para. 3.15). The work program of the Center, detailed
in Annex 2, would be handled by four divisions in the areas of food sciences,
biochemical nutrition, community nutrition and socio-economics. In addition
to its main research function, the Center would serve as an important training
institute, providing facilities for practical laboratory and field work
and for training faculty for the Nutrition Academy at Jakarta. A unit to
coordinate these training activities would be established in CRDN.
Food Technology Development Center (US$5.5 Million)
3.11      The component provides for the construction of buildings, (including
laboratories, library and pilot plant facilities), laboratory equipment, staff
development, consultants and fellowships for the Food Technology Center
(FTDC). This Center is being established within the Agricultural University
of Bogor, to improve the level of applied technology, particularly with
respect to village level processing and storage. It would be used for research
and training in food technology and would develop a pilot extension service to
identify problems in rural food processing and storage and to provide informa-
tion to rural communities, especially but not exclusively in NIPP areas. It
would also carry out work related to the food processing industry. The FTDC
would work in close coordination with the CRDN, the Agency for (Agricultural)
Research and Development (ARD), the Directorate-General of Food Crops and
the Agency for (Agricultural) Education, Training and Exteansion (AETE) (see
para 5.06).
3.12      The emphasis of FTDC's work program, which the Appraisal Mission
reviewed and found satisfactory, will be on:
(a) Assessing traditional processing and storage technology to form
the basis for developing and testing more efficient methods for
reducing wastage in storage and processing and thereby increasing
the availability of food products. Evaluation for technical and
cost effectiveness would precede the development of a national
storage program (see para. 3.25-3.26).
(b) Developing efficient rice drying methods to prevent deteriora-
tion during storage and packing methods to minimize transport
and storage losses.



- 17 -
(c) Improving food processing with a view to increase the
nutritive value and yield of processed products. (For
example, it would explore rice parboiling, presently
not practiced in Indonesia. Parboiling would reduce
the vitamin losses which occur when rice is polished,
improve its value as a source of protein both in quantity
and quality and enhance its storage ability.)
(d) Assessing opportunities for food fortification; preservation
of perishable crops; increasing the nutritional value of
processed foods; utilization of waste products such as rice
bran; the processing of foods for urban markets and for
export; and methods of quality control.
3.13      To ensure that FTDC's work is operationally oriented, experimental
designs would be tested first in simple food storage and. processing units
adjacent to FTDC which simulate village conditions. Thereafter, satisfactory
prototypes would be tested in rural areas. FTDC's activities will be closely
coordinated with the agricultural research programs supported through the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project. In addition, FTDC would establish
a ten-man extension unit which would:
(a) act as a link between the FTDC and selected viLllages;
(b)  transmit information about existing storage and processing
practices to FTDC;
(c) introduce new methods to the selected villages;
(d)  help train government extension service personnel in
these methods; and
(e) cooperate with the University Extension Center at the
Agricultural University, Bogor.
3.14      The Center would train annually up to 25 food technology students
of the Agricultural University. In addition, it also would provide short
courses for the extension staff of the Department of Agriculture, food
industry technicians and nutritionists. The project component also would
assist in staff development for the Center through training opportunities
locally and abroad to 18 graduate candidates and 28 und.ergraduate candidates.
Additional information concerning this component appears in Annex 3.
Direct Nutrition Action Programs
3.15      The Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIEP) (US$2.6 million).
The NIPP component would improve the nutritional status of children under the
age of three, pregnant women and lactating mothers in about 180 villages dis-
tributed in 7 Kabupatens (see Annex 4 for details). The component would
finance: the immunization of 100,000 children against Lnfectious diseases;
supplementary feeding of 30,000 potentially severe and moderately malnourished
children under the age of 3 and of 17,000 pregnant and lactating women; the



- 18 -
nutrition education of about 100,000 families; supply of iodized salt, vitamin
A and iron supplements to the target population at risk; salaries of staff to
train village volunteers (village cadres) and supervise them; evaluation of
the effectiveness of the combined package of these measures and technical
assistance to plan and implement these activities. The villages included in
this component would also benefit from home/village garden programs and
improvements of storage and processing (see Annex 4, paras. 27 to 40). The
pilot action component would take place initially in two Kabupatens in
Bonjonegoro, typical of conditions prevailing on East Java, and in West Lombok
in Nusa Tenggara Barat, which represents the less densely populated areas.
Two additional Kabupatens would be added in the second year. After a mid-
project review by the Bank and the Government, an additional 3 Kabupatens
would be included, making in all a total of 7 Kabupatens 1/ by the fourth
year.
3.16      The proposed NIPP activities would draw on Indonesia's experience
with the Applied Nutrition Program (ANP) and the results of the 1974 eval-
uation of ANP (see Annex 4). Nutrition committees originally established for
ANP at provincial headquarters and Kabupaten levels would now review and
advise NIPP. New committees would be created at the sub-district level
(Kecametan) as part of the project.
3.17      In each NIPP village, about 1 volunteer per 50 households would be
chosen from among primarily female extension workers, teachers and social
workers to: (a) identify moderate and severe PCM cases among children and
pregnant and lactating women; (b) provide simple means of nutrition education;
(c) ensure efficient delivery of food supplements; and (d) check monthly the
weight of children. BUTSI 2/ volunteers under the supervision of the Bupati
would supervise these cadres. Both the Butsi volunteers and the cadres would
be trained by Assistant Nutrition Program Officers (see Annex 4, para. 53 to
57). Those with unsatisfactory gains indicating existing and potential PCM
cases then receive free food supplements based as far as feasible on food
produced in the NIPP area. The malnourished pregnant and lactating mothers
eligible for food supplementation would be selected on the basis of agreed
criteria, chief among which would be low family income levels. While in the
initial stages there is no cost recovery, the Government anticipates that
ultimately, after sufficient project experience, the better-off villages will
share in the cost of NIPP. Details will be worked out during the proposed
NIPP review which is part of the project. Nutrition education emphasizing
the importance of adequate child feeding would accompany the food supplemen-
tation, since in the long-run the teaching of better feeding is far more
important than the curative aspect of supplementary feeding programs.
Nutrition education will be based on currently accepted packages. These
packages will be refined based on the tests carried out under the component
dealing with nutrition communication and behavioral change (para. 3.29).
MCH personnel of the provincial health system would visit the villages periodi-
cally to give immunizations and these costs would be supported by the project.
1/   Subsequently Kabupatens will be selected for the project, one in each of
the provinces of Central Java, South Sumatra, West Java, Yogyakarta and
Bali.
2/   BUTSI is a voluntary agency using Indonesian graduates to work in rural
settings on approved projects.



- 19 -
3.18      In the experimental stage, the annual costs of the NIPP program
averages US$3,400 per village or about US$1 per capita. In addition to food
supplementation, immunization, regular salaries and overhead, these costs
include special evaluation and project management. Because of the pilot
nature and the relative small population coverage, the per capita costs
are higher than when the project becomes a national program. It is also
expected that the number of PCM children given food supplementation would
be relatively smaller after the initial phase of the program. It is, there-
fore, anticipated that when NIPP becomes a national program, the costs of
selective food supplementation and immunization in a typical village (popu-
lation 3,000) would be around US$700 annually, or US$0.23 per capita. The
Government expects that local communities would ultimately share in the costs
of food supplementation (see Annex 4, para. 24).
3.19      Baseline data would be collected in the NIPP areas under the tech-
nical supervision of CRDN. CRDN would be responsible for surveying nutri-
tional status and evaluating the results of nutritional and other activi-
ties on both a midterm and final basis. These evaluations, which would
take into account both the nutritional and cost effectiveness of the var-
ious nutrition interventions, would help to determine feasible replicability
and thus provide the basis for their expansion into a comprehensive national
food and nutrition program.
3.20      Detailed plan of operations are presently being prepared for the
first two NIPP Kabupatens, indicating the villages to be selected and the
planning of various activities particularly including: arrangements for
food procurement; processing and distribution; program for selection and
training of village cadres; coordination of health activities; specific
location of villages for supportive water supply programs; and agricultural
extension work related to establishment of village-home. gardens, storage
and processing. (The timing of these activities is presented in Annex 4,
Appendix 5 and 6). The nutrition program officer of each province would
prepare these plans at each Kabupaten headquarter in consultation with the
Kabupaten nutrition committees approved by the provincial BAPPEDA (Planning
Authority) and the national coordinator of NIPP. The first year of NIPP
operation in each Kabupaten would be devoted to baselinie surveys, preparing
plans for operations, staff training, field trial of food supplements and
procurement of equipment.
3.21      At the national level, NIPP would be managed by a coordinator in
the Ministry of Health; assisted by a provincial nutrition program officer
and two assistant nutrition program officers (ANPO) at Kabupaten level. The
coordination of the different activities involved at Kabupaten level necessi-
tates the ANPO working under the administrative control of the Bupati, the
executive head of the Kabupaten.
3.22      Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a)  The plan of operations for the initial two NIPP Kabupatens
would be submitted to the Bank for review prior to implemen-
tation and not later than August 1, 1977.



- 20 -
(b) The selection of new Kabupatens would be made in consultation
with the Bank, according to criteria agreed with the Bank (see
Annex 4 para. 7). The third and fourth Kabupaten would be selected
not later than October 1, 1977. The remaining three Kabupatens
would be selected not later than August 1, 1978.
(c) A review of the NIPP would be conducted at the end of the
second year of project operation with a view to determining
program effectiveness and any necessary changes of program
direction and content.
3.23      Action Program for Home/Village Gardens (US$0.5 million):  In-
creasing the production and availability of nutritious vegetables and fruits
through improvement of home-gardens has been a part of the Applied Nutri-
tion Program. Such a program would be an important aspect: of the NIPP plan
of operations, and would be implemented through the existing agricultural
extension service. The lack of improved vegetable seeds and agricultural
extension staff trained in horticulture constitutes a severe constraint
to production. This component would provide salaries for 10 agricultural
extension staff, seeds, fertilizer and other production oriented services.
The annual costs for this program per farm family are expected to be in the
order of US$4.5. In order to establish the necessary demonstration effect
the program would be provided for a 3 year period on a grant basis. Prior to
project completion, the Government and the Bank would review the results and
in light of the findings determine whether this subcomponent should be pre-
pared for more general replication (i.e. a credit program to be administered
under BIMAS.) 1/ Assurances to this effect were obtained. A total of 18,000
individual farmers in the NIPP villages would receive an initial supply of
seeds and other inputs needed for home gardens. Community efforts would be
mobilized through the Lurah (Village Chief) and village nutrition cadres in
setting up village gardens - for each village - on communally owned land. One
extension worker would be available to about 1,800 farm families within his
area, but he would focus his efforts on group of 10-15 progressive farmers,
headed by a contact farmer. Each progressive farmer in turn would transmit
the advice received from the extension worker to a group of 7-10 neighboring
farmers. Each extension worker would be assigned to 16 farmer groups, visit-
ing each group once a fortnight on a fixed day and time. He would motivate
farmers to rapidly adopt improved methods so that their gardens would serve as
models to their neighbors. A part of the output of these gardens would be
marketed locally or purchased by NIPP management to be used for food supple-
mentation of the nutritionally vulnerable groups. At the time of full project
implementation the additional production of vegetables from these home/village
gardens would reach a value of about US$500,000 annually.
3.24      In addition to tested seed varieties available in Indonesia, the
project would provide for imports.-of vegetable seeds from institutes such as
the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center in Taiwan. These seeds
1/   Recently, the Government expended the BIMAS program to commercially
marketed vegetables on an experimental basis.



- 21 -
would be tested during the first year of the project at the Agricultural
University before being used in the NIPP areas. The University, in coopera-
tion with the Directorate General of Food Crops and the AILD, would also
undertake field testing of recently developed model home/ village garden
packages, taking into account what is agronomically and economically feasible
as well as acceptable to small farmers. The above institutions would also
develop:
(i) a list of vegetables, tree crops, tubers and
other plants that can be grown in home/vil-
lage gardens of the different NIPP areas;
(ii) methods of laying out demonstration seed
gardens which can be replicated in vil-
lages; and
(iii) training curricula and schedules for agricultural
extension workers.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that the Directorate General
of Food Crops, Ministry of Agriculture, would allocate the 10 necessary
additional extension staff to the selected NIPP areas.
Action Program for On-Farm and Village Level Storage (US;0.2 million):
3.25      The FTDC would, on the basis of a twelve month study, prepare
recommendations to improve traditional on-farm and village level storage in
the seven NIPP Kabupatens, using local materials as far als possible.
3.26      The project provides financing for the establishment of small-scale
storage units in those NIPP villages which have no storage facilities at
present. The total capacity of these units would be 300 tons. These units,
varying in size from 1 to 10 tons, would be managed by the BUUD (local village
cooperative). The storage would be provided to the BUUD on a loan basis in
accordance with the existing credit terms under the Food Storage Program.
Since this would be the first phase in the application of this program moni-
toring and evaluation would be needed and undertaken by the FTDC (see para.
3.12 and 3.15).
Anemia Prevention and Control Pilot Project - Plantations (US$0.2 million):
3.27      Nutritional anemia among plantation workers primarily due to
iron deficiency has been demonstrated to be a main factor causing low labor
productivity. This component would test the logistical feasibility of estab-
lishing a delivery system for iron supplementation with a view to ultimate
replication on a national scale (see Annex 5). The project provides financing
for:
(i) the supply of iron pills to cure nutritionally
anemic plantation workers;
(ii) medication and provision of shoes for tackling
the problem of hookworm infection;



- 22 -
(iii)  imports of iron fortified salt in the initial
stage to be followed by fortification of salt
in Indonesia as needed for the project;
(iv)  delivery of iron fortified salt to workers to
ensure that an adequate iron level is maintained;
and
(v)  monitoring and evaluation.
This component would initiate an integrated program of attack on nutritional
anemia on three government owned plantations: two in East Java, each with
about 500 workers and one in North Sumatra, with about 1,000 workers, taking
full advantage of the plantation's system of medical and health care facil-
ities. The inclusion of 10 small, privately owned plantations in South
Sulawesi and West Sumatra, each employing about: 100 workers, is planned at a
later stage, provided the Directorate General of Manpower Protection and Care
of the Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives can establish a
delivery and health system in these localities. It is expected that the
ultimate number of beneficiaries would be around 10,000.
3.28      The CRDN would be in charge of baseline surveys and final eva-
luation. The scientific and technical design of the component would be the
responsibility of the CRDN and the National Institute for Industrial Hygiene
and Occupational Health (NILHOH) with close cooperation of the Directorate
General of Plantations, Ministry of Agriculture and the NIPP Coordinator.  The
actual field administration would be carried out by the Regional Institute of
Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health (RILHOH). Both national and
regional institutes are under the Directorate General of Manpower Protection
and Care. The feasibility of the delivery system proposed, namely the planta-
tion administration and/or health clinics would be evalujated. Initially, the
iron supplementation would be given on grant basis to the plantations, with
average annual cost of less than US$1 per person. If, as is expected, the
increased labor productivity would be significantly greater than the cost of
this program, then a general application of the measures would be initiated by
government regulations with the individual estates bearing the cost. In case
the general application will arise, NILHOH would have to be strengthened in
order to initiate, implement and monitor a national program. Provision has
been made for such action.
Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change (US$1.0 m4llon
3.29      The 1973 evaluation study of the Applied Nutrition Program found
that even in the higher income families who were able to afford enough food,
about 40 percent were deficient in both protein and calorie intake. This
finding gives an indication of the lack of knowledge about the use of avail-
able food. Food habits relating to choice of foods, methods of preparing and
cooking foods, distribution of foods within the family, weaning practices and
the feeding of a sick child are likely to be responsible for the gap between
food availability and consumption. Behavioral constraints are among the
critical factors bringing about improvement in nutritional status=



- 23 -
3.30      The general objective of this component (detailed in Annex 6) would
be to identify the most critical behavioral constraints and develop measures
to bring about desirable changes in nutritional behavior in the selected areas
for later replication on a national scale. Among the specific objectives
would be:
(i) to develop the know-how and skills required
to overcome behavioral problems and im-
plement remedial measures;
(ii) to reflect the above in the content of nutri-
tional messages and to select the appropriate
media mix to be used and the methods of
operation;
(iii) to train village cadres as the contact per-
sonnel, sub-district staff to supervise them
and technicians to handle the communications
equipment;
(iv) to identify the contribution of mass media
and prepare test material potentially useful
for wider application;
(v) to develop feasible and nationally replicable
techniques for nutrition communication.
Workshops, meetings and seminars at various administrative levels would be
required. Baseline information with respect to food habits and nutritional
status of the population would be used for planning the education program
and later for the evaluation of its effectiveness. This work would be car-
ried out by the CRDN. The immediate program would test the behavioral re-
sponse of people to nutrition communication in one Kabupaten each in Central
Java, Yogyakarta and South Sumatra, one of which would be in a NIPP area.
These Kabupatens have been selected as Units for Community Development (UDKP)
under the Second Development Plan. The three areas have 36 villages with
about 110,000 direct beneficiaries.
3.31      The messages would be communicated through village cadres, the
utilization of audio-visual equipment and seminars. Nutrition education
messages would be pre-tested to ensure that messages are interpreted as
intended. Village cadres, mostly women, would engage in. interpersonal commu-
nication with members of the communities. They would be selected by the
village people from among members of voluntary organizations (PKK), i.e.
community development workers, paramedical personnel or informal leaders. One
cadre would be responsible for 50 households, so that on average each village
would have 12 cadres. Three villages would be under one Kabupaten supervisor.
He would also be responsible for the initial one month training of cadres and
for organizing periodic cadre meetings as a means to fee!dback information.



24 
A-lso  the cGmponent would provide audio-visual equipment to simulate T.V. and
radio broadcasts. Their relative costs and effectiveness would be evaluated.
Through feedback from the use of this equipment, '"soft ware" of nutrition
miessages would be developed for subsequent use ia the national nutrition plan
and for utilizing the mass communications hardware provided through other
go ernmeant projects in education and extension assisted by the Bank.  Close
liaison with the Office of Education Development, Ministry of Education, would
ensure that the nutritional "soft ware" would be incorporated in the overall
program for the communication satellite already launched. The component would
provide an educational technologist/ communications consultant for one year to
advise on the most efficient and effective use of Indonesia's media (the type
and quantity of various media to be used, the staff and training required, the
production facilities needed and the necessary coordination mechanisms), as
well as fellowships both within and outside Indonesia to train specialists in
nutrition communication techniques particularly for mass media use.
3.32      The component would be managed by the Chairman of the Center for
Manpower Training, Ministry of Health. He would be assisted by a team of four
full-time specialists in nutrition, health, communications and administration.
Nutrition Manpower Training (US$1.5 million)
3.33      Training for Nutritionists:  This component would finance two
teaching laboratories, a library, an audio-visual room, related facilities
and equipment and staff for the Academy of Nutrition (see para. 2.22). This
would increase its output of nutritionists from 25 to 60 graduates a year. In
addition, financing would be provided for fellowships for training of existing
and newly recruited staff. The Academy gives three years of training (beyond
12 years of basic education) in community nutrition and dietetics. Expanding
the Academy would help to bridge the anticipated gap of 400 nutritionists.
The estimated demand, by 1985 will be 750 nutritionists but the availability
with existing facilities would be only around 350. The curriculum of the
Academy, which is currently undergoing revision on satisfactory lines,
would be continually improved, taking into account the advice of the CRDN and
FTDC and the experience of the NIPP and nutrition education components. (In
addition, the components relating to CRDN, FTDC, NIPP and Nutrition Education
include all training elements for different levels of technical personnel, as
part of staff development. Particularly, the training activities contemplated
as part of NIPP would cover nearly 2,000 village cadres.)
3.34      Training for Agriculture Extension Staff:  To improve the effec-
tiveness of the agriculture extension staff in the field of nutrition, pro-
visions would be made for inclusion of nutrition and home gardens into the
curricula of the agricultural high schools and the agricultural training and
extension centers. Substantive agreement has been reached with the Agency
for Education, Training and Extension (AETE) of the Ministry of Agriculture
to develop the detailed curriculum. Agreement has been reached that training
of extension workers specializing in home gardens in the NIPP areas will be
undertaken through the Rural Extension Center (REC) under the Directorate



- 25 -
General for Food Crops, Ministry of Agriculture. This subcomponent would
finance only the incremental cost of the AETE and the REC f:or curriculum de-
velopment, equipment and instructors. Annex 7 contains the details of this
component.
Assistance for Formulation of a National Food and Nutrition Program
(US$0.2 million)
3.35      The experience gained in the implementation and evaluation of all
elements of the proposed project would aid the Government in both the formu-
lation and the execution of a comprehensive national food and nutrition
program. The planning staff of the Ministries of Health and Agriculture
will utilize the preliminary results for drawing up an indicative national
nutrition program by mid-1978 for consideration by BAPPENAS. As project
operations continue to be evaluated, through the project period, the program
would be refined.
3.36      The Project Director, assisted by staff in the tronitoring and eval-
uation unit and consultants provided under technical assistance, would be in
charge of program preparation. In this task, he would draw on the contribu-
tions of the CRDN (with respect to evaluation of the nutritional effectiveness
of various components), the FTDC (with respect to evaluation and formulation
of storage and processing activities), and the Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU)
in the Ministry of Agriculture (with respect to the nutritional aspects of
agricultural policies and projects). The project would provide technical
assistance to the FNU which would focus on the inclusion of nutritional
considerations in agricultural policy planning. The evaluation of different
components of the project would help develop national rep:Licable and cost
effective nutrition delivery systems which would focus on design of appropri-
ate agricultural and industrial policies and programs to optimise nutritional
benefits to the vulnerable sections of the lower 40 percent of Indonesia's
population. The staff of the Project Director would utilize these
studies and the contributions of CRDN, FTDC and FNU to develop a national
program to be presented through the Technical Commission to the Ministerial
Committee by the end of the project period. The draft of the national food
and nutrition program would be reviewed by BAPPENAS in consultation with
the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the project results
would be utilized for formulation and execution of the national nutrition
program.
Capital Works
3.37      The project includes construction of laboratory buildings (477 m )
together with associatej utilities, libraries and auditorium, 32 staff houses
and renovations (2200 m ) of existing buildings (for details see Annex 10).
Base costs which have been prepared by a local firm of consultant architects
and scrutinised by the appraisal mission, have been updated to June 1976. They



- 26 -
follow appropriate guidelines laid down by the Government and are considered
satisfactory. All preliminary plans have been completed, detailed drawings are
being prepared under the guidance of a task force of experts and all sites
have been selected. The implementation of the civil works would be through
the Chief Engineer of the Ministry of Health.
Technical Assistance (US$3.0 million)
3.38      The project would provide a total of about 40 man-years of Consult-
ants, of which about 17 man-years are expected to be foreign, estimated
to cost US$1.5 million, financed under different components. (Annex 13
contains a schedule of technical assistance and the detailed terms of refer-
ence for consultants are included in the relevant Annexes.) Two man-years of
experts for CRDN and 8 man-years of experts for FTDC would be provided in the
fields of community nutrition, food policy, nutrition research and food
technology. Consultancies for nutrition education for about 4 man-years would
include assistance for preparation of training manuals and advice on nutrition
communication. For NIPP activities, a total of 7 man-years of consultants
would be provided. At project management level, a management specialist (2
man-years) would advise the Project Director on the integrated operation of
different components of the project, and an additional 15 man-years of short-
term, local consultants would be available to assist in monitoring and evalua-
tion and in the preparation of a national food and nutrition program. Two
man-years of consultancy would be provided to strengthen the Food and Nutri-
tion Unit set up under the Planning Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture (see
Annex 8b). Agreement was reached with the Government on the details of
the technical assistance schedule included in Annex 13.
3.39      Fellowships included in the project would provide for training of 44
Indonesian experts either locally or abroad in nutrition and food technology.
Short-term study tours are also provided under the nutrition education component
for 7 staff members.
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
4.01      Project Costs:  Total costs of the proposed four-year project,
including contingencies, are estimated at US$26.0 million equivalent. Cost
estimates by expenditure categories are given in Table 1 and by component in
Table 2.  Details are in Annex 11.
4.02      Base costs refer to estimated prices in June 1976.  All operating
costs are incremental. Physical contingencies have been applied at a rate of
10 percent to all civil works and at 5 percent to all other items. The
provision for expected price contingencies has been computed based on the
following projection of annual inflation rates: for civil works, 14 percent
in 1976, 12 percent in 1977-79, and 10 percent in 1980; for equipment and
services, 10 percent in 1976, 8 percent in 1977-79, and 7 percent in 1980.



- 27 -
4.03      Project Financing:  Project costs would be financed by a Bank loan
of US$13 million covering the foreign exchange costs of US$,10.2 million and
US$2.8 million of local costs. The remaining US$13 million would be financed
by the Government of Indonesia.
4.04      Procurement: 1/  Civil works contracts in excess of US$1.0 million --
mainly for construction of research and training facilities at the CRDN, the
FTDC and the Nutrition Academy (US$5.9 million) -- would bea awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance w:ith the Bank's
guidelines. Contracts below this amount would be awarded oll the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, with no restriction on foreign
bidding, and in accordance with normal government procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank. For purpose of bid comparison for civil works contracts,
local contractors would receive a preference of 7-1/2 percent. Indonesia has
a viable local contracting industry and it is expected that local contractors
would win all bids for civil works. Research and information equipment
(US$2.5 million) is specialized in character and service after sales is of
critical importance. This would be procured locally on the basis of competi-
tive procurement procedures involving the solicitation of at least three price
quotations. Contracts for equipment, including furniture, which cannot
reasonably be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent, could be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding based on local advertisement, in
accordance with normal government procedures, which are saLtisfactory to the
Bank. Contracts in excess of US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines;
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent,
or the existing customs duty, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing imports.   With respect to vehicles (US$520,000), procurement would
be on the basis of international competitive bidding, subject to Bank guide-
lines. The Government has given assurances that vehicles imported under
the project would be exempt from existing import restrictions. For the
start-up of the project ten vehicles would be procured locally for which
finance up to 40 percent of local costs would be provided. Selection of
consultants paid for by the project would be made in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
1/   Costs in this section are shown without physical and price contingencies.



- 28 -
4.05      Disbursements:  The loan would meet 50 percent of the project costs.
Disbursement would be made on the following basis:
(a) 100 percent of costs for both foreign and local consultants,
fellowships and project staff in the Office of the Project
Director;
(b) 100 percent of the c.i.f. value of directly imported equipment,
library supplies and furniture, 95 percent of the ex-factory
price of equipment manufactured locally, and 65 percent of
imported equipment procured locally;
(c)  100 percent of the c.i.f. value of imported vehicles, and
40 percent of the total cost of vehicles procured locally; and
(d) 80 percent of civil works expenditures.
Undisbursed funds would be available for reallocation to other components or
activities related to the project, contingent on Bank approval. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 12. Expenditures for consultant
architects incurred after October 1975 would be financed retroactively from
the proposed loan up to a total of US$50,000 equivalent.
4<06      Accounts and Audit:  Each of the project entities would maintain
separate accounts of expenditures under the project, which would be audited
arnually by the government auditors according to standard practice. The Pro-
ject Director would maintain accounts of his own expenditures under the
project together with statements of project expenditures by participating
entities. Copies of audited accounts of project expenditures would be for-
warded to the Bank by the Project Director within four months of the end of
each fiscal year. During negotiations the Government has given assurances
that these procedures would be followed.



- 29 -
Table 1: EXPENDITUPi' 8Y CATEGORIES
Indonesian Rupiah          US Dollars
(Million)              (Thousand)              Base
Local  Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total   FE%  Costs%
1. Civil lWorks             1,550       905  2,455   3,735   2,180   5,915   36.9  31.5
Vehicles & Equipment
1. Vehicles                 39      177    216        95      425      520   81.7   2.8
2. Equipment               129      920  1,049       310   2,218   2,528   87.7  13.4
Sub-Total 2.            168   1,097  1,265        405   2,643   3,048   86.7  16.2
3. Technical Assistance
1. Advisors                115      489    604       278   1,178   1,456   80.9   7.7
2. Fellowships             337      305    642       813      735   1,548   47.5   8.3
Sub-Total 3.            452      794  1,246   1,091   1,913   3,004   63.7  16.0
4. Incremental Operating
Costs
1. Salaries                900       -      900   2,169        -    2,169    -    11.5
2. Health Activities         15      56      71       37      135      172   78.5   0.9
3. Education Materials   174         21    195       420       50      470   10.6   2.5
4. Books and Journals       31       94    125        75      225      300   75.0   1.6
5. Travel                   126        7    133      304       17      321    5.3   1.7
6. Mass Media               37         5     42       90       10      100   10.0   0.5
7. Food Supplement          127      -      127      307       -       307    -       1.6
8. Other                   652       58    710   1,571        139_  1,710    8.1   9.1
Sub-Total 4.          2,062      241  2,303   4,973        576   5,549   10.4  29.4
5. Agricultural Activities  282           8    290      680        20     700    2.9   3.7
E. valuation                   217       29    246       522       70     592   11.8   3.2
Base Cost                4,731   3,074  7,805  11,406   7,402  18,808   39.4 100.0
Phvsical Contingency        306     202    508       738      487   1,225   39.7   6.5
Price Contingency        1,521      959  2,480   3,666   2,311   5,977   38.7  31.8
Total Project Cost  6,560   4,233 10,793  15,810  10,200  26,010   39.2 138.3



- 30 -
Table 2: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY COMPONENTS
Indonesian Rupiah        US Dollars
(Million)            (Thousand)
Component                             Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   FE%
Center for Research and
Development in Nutrition            1,402   1,030   2,432  3,380   2,481   5,861   42
Food Technology Development Center  1,013   1,280   2,293  2,441   3,084   5,525   56
Direct Nutrition Action Programs:
(a)  NIPP                             826      248   1,074  1,990       597   2,587   23
(b) Action Program for
Home/Village Gardens           207       -      207    500        -      500    -
(c) Action Program for On-Farm
and Village Level Storage       75        8      83    180        20     200   10
(d) Anemia Prevention and
Control Pilot Project           60       12      72    144        30     174   17
Nutrition Communication and
Behavioral Change                      337      90      427    811      217   1,028   21
Nutritional Manpower Training:
Nutrition Academy                      425     175      600  1,025      420   1,445   29
Assistance to Agricultural
Extension Training                  103        4      107    248       11      259    4
Organization and Management              235     196      431    567      472   1,039   45
Assistance for Formulation
of a National Food
and Nutrition Program                   50      29       79    120       70      190   37
Total Base Costs                 4,733   3,072   7,805 11,406   7,402  18,808   39
Physical Contingency                     306     202      508    738      487   1,225   40
Price Contingency                      1,521     959   2,480  3,666   2,311   5,977   39
Total Project Cost               6,560   4,233  10,793 15,810  10,200  26,010   39



- 31 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization (See Annex 8a)
5.01      Each of the components of the project would be implemented within
the existing organizational structure of the Government. The table below
shows the various ministries concerned with the different components. While
they involve different facets of the Government, they comprise of activities
which can proceed in parallel for the most part and are not dependent on one
another. The project is, therefore, relatively simple to implement once the
specific roles of different agencies are clearly defined, as has been done by
the Government. The primary responsibilities are as follows:
PROJECT COMTONENT                ADMINISTRATIVE MIINISTRY
Center for Research              Health
and Development in
Nutrition
Food Technology and              Education
Development Center
Nutrition Intervention           Health/Home Affairs
Pilot Project
Home/Village Gardens             Agriculture
Storage                          Agriculture/Education (FTDC)
Anemia Prevention                Transmigration, and
MIanpower Cooperat:ives/
Agriculture/Healt:h
Nutrition Education              Health
Nutrition Academy                Health
Assistance to AETE               Agriculture
Organization & Management        Health/Home Affairs/
Agriculture/Education
Formulation of a National
Food and Nutrition Program       Health/Agriculture/BAPPENAS
5.02      The project will be implemented over a 4 year period, April 1, 1977
to March 31, 1981. The closing date will be March 31, 1982. Annex 14 con-
tains a schedule of key implementation actions.



- 32 -
5.03      The overall management of the project would rest with the Director
General of Community Health in the Ministry of Hlealth, the designated Proj-
ect Director. The Project Director would be assisted by a full-time proj-
ect manager, designated as Executive Secretary, a Deputy Executive Secretary
and special staff for finance and procurement. Their job discription and
terms of reference are given in Annex 8a. A separate Monitoring and Eval-
uation Unit consisting of two planning officers would also report to the
Executive Secretary. Utilizing technical assistance funds under this proj-
ect, the Project Director and his staff would set up a part-time panel of
experts. In addition, the project provides a full-time management expert
to assist the Project Director in the first two years of the project. To
ensure the full cooperation of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education
and Agriculture, a part-time Co-director will be nominated from each of
these ministries to work in close cooperation with the Project Director
in identifying and solving problems of interministerial coordination.
5.04      The Project Director would be responsible for (i) monitoring the
progress of the project, (ii) ensuring interministerial and agency coordina-
tion, and (iii) coordinating the activities of the different components. He
would ensure also the provision of adequate appropriations under the different
ministerial budgetary requests and coordinate the flow of funds to various
project entities. The Project Director would have the responsibility for
making withdrawal requests to the Bank.
5.05      The Project Director, the three Co-Directors, the Executive Sec-
retary and the Coordinator of NIPP would be appointed in consultation with
the Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained. The current Director
General of Community Health, a person with excellent managerial capabilities
and the administrator of the successful rural health program, will be the
first Project Director. Subsequent to negotiations and in preparation for
project implementation, the Government has also appointed the Co-Directors
of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education and Agriculture, the Executive
Secretary and the NIPP Coordinator.
5.06      The CRDN in the Ministry of Health, and the FTDC in the Ministry of
Education, would be administered by their respective directors, assisted by
financial and procurement staff. Both institutes would liaise closely and
would coordinate their work with the Agency for (Agricultural) Research and
Development (ARD), the Directorate General of Food Crops and the Agency for
(Agricultural) Education, Training and Extension (AETE). To this end, a
Research Coordinating Committee of Directors would be established. It would
report annually through the Project Director to the Ministerial Committee
(para. 2.23). The Directors of CRDN and FTDC would assume chairmanship in
rctation. Membership of the Committee would include a representative of
BAPPENAS, of the Ministries of Agriculture, Health and Industry; a sociologist
from IPB; and a representative from the Directorate General of Food Crops and
the AETE so that problems of implementation and extension which could not be
solved through normal day to day communications would be brought to the



- 33 -
notice of the research institutes. Provision has been made under technical
assistance for internationally recruited experts to assist the Committee. The
Government has given assurances during negotiations that. the Board would be
set up no later than August 1, 1977 on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank and that annual progress reports of research activities be sent to
the Bank.
5.07      The NIPP component would be administered at the national level by
a Coordinator stationed in the Ministry of Health, whose staff would include
three assistant nutrition program officers. The Coordinator would report
directly to the Director General of Community Health, Ministry of Health.
In each province where NIPP would operate, the Governor of the Province
would ensure the coordination and implementation of the nutrition program. At
the Kabupaten level, the Bupatis (who are under the overall supervision of the
Ministry of Home Affairs) would be responsible for management and control of
NIPP activities. Within the provincial government services the implementation
of the program would be the responsibility of the Inspector of Health. To
ensure feedback and adequate beneficiary interaction consultations with the
village communities will take place through the mechanism of the nutrition
advisory committees.
5.08      The Anemia Prevention and Control Project for plantations would
be administered in the field by NILHOH through delegation to RILHOHs under
the Ministry of Transmigration, Manpower and Cooperatives. Each would work
in close collaboration with the NIPP Coordinator and the Directorate General
of Plantations, Ministry of Agriculture who would assign appropriate staff to
handle the program. The training and nutrition education component would be
the responsibility of the Chairman for the Center of Manpower Training in the
Ministry of Health.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation (See Annex 8a)
Progress of Components-Monitoring
5.09      To ensure that implementation of the project meets the prescribed
goals, data on key indicators of progress would be reported monthly to the
Project Director by each Project Officer. These reports would be reviewed by
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and recommendations would be made to the
Executive Secretary who would initiate remedial action. The formats of
the reports would be designed in such a manner as to help analyse the extent
of progress in critical areas of work and act as early warning signals of
delay. Each Project Officer would indicate in his report to the Project
Director the types of action taken at his level to anticipate, correct and
avoid slippages. Once a quarter, the Project Director would conduct a meeting
of Project Officers and other agencies concerned with implementation, with a view
to removing bottlenecks and ensuring coordination. The Project Director would
be responsible for the preparation of semi-annual reports to the BAPPENAS,
the Ministries of Health, Agriculture and People's Welfare, and to the Bank.



- 34 -
These reports would cover particularly the progress of civil works, procure-
ment, recruitment and training of key personnel, research on village-level
storage and processing and implementation of field-level activities on the
NIPP and the plantation components.
Technical Evaluation
5.10      Important aspects of the project are the effectiveness of evaluation
of different combinations of activities in NIPP areas in improving the nutri-
tional status and of the delivery system for iron supplementation on planta-
tions in order to raise labor productivity. This evaluation would be carried
out by experts of CRDN, particularly by the Divisions of Community Nutrition
and Socioeconomics. CRDN would design the initial baseline, intermediate and
final sample surveys of nutritional status and supervise the data collection.
Similarly, CRDN and sociological experts of the Agricultural University would
assist in designing and carrying out surveys of nutritional behavioral res-
ponses to the nutrition education tests proposed in the project.
5.11      The Research Coordinating Committee would evaluate the research
programs of the CRDN and FTDC and advise on redirection of resources, where
necessary, to high priority problem areas.
Program Evaluation
5.12      Program evaluation would be undertaken directly by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit under the Project Director, with assistance from consultants,
both local and foreign. 1/ The resources of CRDN and FTDC would also be
available for this purpose. Studies to be undertaken would include:
(a) Review and analysis of project results, based on actual
costs, with a view to formulate nationally replicable
food and nutrition activities.
(b)  Review of the operational significance and costs of re-
search programs initiated and carried out by CRDN and
FTDC, with special emphasis on replicability of findings.
(c)  Relationships between nutrition and productivity.
(d) Development of improved methods of food processing and
its effect on employment.
1/   An advisory panel of experts is provided for under the project, to
advise the Project Director.



- 35 -
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      By the end of the project period, the CRDN and FTDC would be fully
established and oriented towards their primary role of problem solving. The
CRDN would have a professional staff of 44, and the FTDC would have 23 profes-
sionals. Both institutions would have teaching functions in addition to their
applied research duties. The Nutrition Academy would be training students at the
rate of 60 graduates per year to the Bachelor of Science level for service
in institutions including CRDN as well as in community nutrition activities.
6.02      It is also expected that theoretical and practical training in
program management would have been given by the CRDN and the Academy of
Nutrition to about 65 nutrition program officers and assistant nutrition
program officers. Also, 183 village assistant program officers and about
4,800 members of cadres for nutrition extension services would have been
trained.
6.03      By the end of the three-year operational NIP]P period in each se-
lected village, the incidence of PCM would be sought to be reduced by 60
percent of the initial rate and infant mortality reduced by 20 percent.
In the plantations the incidence of nutritional anemia is expected to be
reduced by 60 percent. 1/ Coverage would also be offered to combat vitamin A
and iodine deficiencies.
6.04      The Food and Nutrition Unit to be set up in the Ministry of Agri-
culture is expected to be fully operational and staffed by the end of the
project period. It is anticipated that this unit will have become instru-
mental in introducing and assessing nutritional considerations in agricul-
tural research, planning and extension.
6.05      A program for improved village-level food storage and village-
level food processing would also have been designed, implemented and eval-
uated with a view to replication on a national scale within a year after
the end of the project period. In addition, arrangements would have been
set up for coordination of research programs in agricultural food technology
and nutrition research institutions with other agricultural research insti-
tutes. Among the research output would be improved crop varieties with
nutritionally desirable qualities, more efficient techniques for food pro-
cessing and storage, and methods for food fortification with necessary micro-
nutrients. Also, techniques of nutrition education using traditional and new
media would have been tested in the field and the national nutrition education
campaign would have better tools to work with.
lit The attainment of these targets will be monitored with reference to
the results of the baseline surveys.



-36 -
About 65 nutritionists trained in the Academy would be available to extend
community nutrition activities. Agricultural extension staff would have been
trained in the areas of nutrition and home gardening which would broaden the
scope of the extension system.  This woul6 particularly benefit the rural
poor.
6.06      In the NIPP areas, production and effective availability of nutri-
tious foods would have been increased through home gardens, better storage
and processing. A simplified nutrition surveillance system together with
improved health care would have been established in these villages. In the
selected plantations an effective delivery system for iron supplementation
would be established.
6.07      In the short run, the proposed project would strengthen Indonesia's
institutional capacity to determine and analyze the nature and dimensions of
the national nutrition problem and to develop means of optimizing the use
of national food resources as prerequisites to preparing and implementing a
national nutrition program. Bank support would help in institutionalizing
an effective approach to coordination, execution and evaluation of this
effort and the subsequent nationwide nutrition program.
6.08      In the long-run, the implementation oE the project-developed nutri-
tion strategy would bring benefits by optimizing the use of food resources and
by increasing labor productivity. This in turn would improve the income
of those whose malnutrition is a direct result of their poverty. Food avail-
ability would be raised through coordination with programs intended to expand
production of staple foods for local consumption, and through improved means
of village-level food storage and processing. To ensure that this food
availability benefits the poorest, requires not only that appropriate agri-
cultural distribution arrangements be adopted but also that the poor are
educated as to their nutritional needs and how most economically to meet
them. This is a major objective of the project. A major thrust of the
Government's Development Plan is the creation of additional employment
opportunities. Part of the problem of employment in Indonesian circum-
stances arises from the limitations on the productive capacity of the work
force associated with the generally poor nutritional status. This problem
would be addressed under the proposed project.
6.09      The proposed project is intended to reach the poorest segment of
the population, and within that group to concentrate on those most vulner-
able to malnutrition. Benefits accrued to infants, pre-school children,
pregnant and lactating women, while having the longest lead-time and being the
most difficult to measure, nonetheless have the greatest impact in improving
the quality of human capital formation (see para. 2.03). The returns to these
preventive measures would derive from:
(a) the improved quality and productivity of Indonesia's work
force;



- 37 -
(b) the better utilization of Indonesia's education system by
a healthier group of students; and
(c) a lesser burden on the health system.
The higher rate of survival of children also leads to a more suitable atmos-
phere for effective family planning campaigns and may, in the long run,
reduce desired family size.
6.10      In addition to the national project benefit:s, other immediate
side-benefits can be expected in NIPP areas. The NIPP operations build on
existing nutrition information and activities, but d:Lffer from ongoing pro-
grams in respect to the magnitude of population covered, the range of inputs
and baseline and final surveys. Benefits of these operations would include:
(i)  rehabilitation of over 30,000 children aff(ected by PCM
in 180 villages;
(ii)  nutrition education for about 110,000 families
and 45,000 pregnant women and lactating mothers (of
these 17,000 would receive food supplements);
(iii) immunization of 100,000 children from infectious
diseases;
(iv)  establishment of village storage and processing units;
(v)  establishment of 18,000 home and village gardens in 180
villages; and
(vi)  control of anemia through dietary supplementation to 3,000
plantation workers.
6.11      The project reflects the importance of women in development,
both as beneficiaries of services provided and as st:aff of those project
components providing the services. The majority of the village cadre
personnel in the NIPP component would be women.
6.12      Specific benefits would also accrue from coordination of the pro-
posed project with ongoing projects.
6.13      The proposed project carries an inherent risk because it involves
investments in an area of relatively new activity. A risk specific to this
project arises from the fact that its implementation involves many ministries
and their coordinated actions. The Government, howesver, is now convinced
of the need to strengthen interministerial coordinat:ion and for this purpose
has decided to set up a flexible organizational structure to meet the demands
of such a project. The components are being handlel within the existing
administrative structure which also provides interministerial coordinating



- 38 -
committees. The risks of the project are acceptable in view of the substan-
tial short and long-term benefits expected of this project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) with respect to the NIPP program, (i) the plans of
operations for the initial two Kabupatens would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for approval prior to implementation
and not later than August 1, 1977; (ii) the selection
of new Kabupatens would be in accordance with criteria
established in consultation with the Bank. The third
and fourth Kabupatens would be selected not later than
October 1, 1977. The remaining three Kabupatens would
be selected not later than August 1, 1978; and (iii) a
review of the NIPP would be conducted at the end of the
second year of project operation with a view to deter-
mining program effectiveness and any necessary changes
in program direction and content (see para 3.22);
(b) the Government and the Bank would review the results
of the home/village garden program after the end of the
third year of NIPP operations and determine whether
this program should be prepared for more general repli-
cation (see para. 3.23);
(c) with respect to the action program for home/village
gardens, the Directorate General of Food Crops, Ministry
of Agriculture, would allocate the ten necessary additional
extension staff to the selected NIPP areas (see para. 3.24);
(d)  vehicles imported under the project would be exempt
from existing import restrictions (see para. 4.04);
(e) appropriate accounting and auditing procedures would
be followed and copies of audited accounts of project ex-
penditures would be forwarded to the Bank by the Project
Director within four months of the end of each fiscal
year (see para. 4.06);
(f) the Project Director, the three Co-Directors, the Project
Manager and the Coordinator of NIPP would be appointed in
consultation with the Bank (see para. 5.05); and
(g) the Research Coordinating Committee would be set up no
later than August 1, 1977 on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (see para. 5.06);



- 39 -
(h) project results would be utilized for formulation and exe-
cution of the national nutrition program (see para. 3.36);
and
(i) the details of the technical assistance schedule (see
para 3.38).
7.03      Subsequent to negotiations and in preparation for project imple-
mentation, the Government has appointed the Project Director, the Executive
Secretary, the Co-Directors of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education
and Agriculture and the NIPP Coordinator (see para. 5.03).
7.04      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$13
million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of 4 1/2 years.
The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutritional Status and Food Habit:s
1.        Indonesia, with the fifth highest population in the world, has a
land area of 575,000 square miles, consisting of thousands of inhabited
islands covering one eight of the world's circumference. While major cultural
and ecological differences exist between the various regions, there are com-
mon nutritional problems: protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM), vitamin A
deficiency, iodine deficiency and nutritional anemia.
Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
2.        Based on the available data on nutritional status, food consumption
and food production, widespread protein-calorie malnutrition is manifest.
Close to one-third of all children under the age of five are estimated to
suffer from moderate to severe PCM. The severe form, affecting 2-5 percent
of young children, ranges across the spectrum of protein-calorie malnutrition
from kwashiorkor 1/ at one extreme to marasmus 2/ at the other. Kwashiorkor
is due to a quantitative or qualitative deficiency of protein, but calorie
intake may be adequate (e.g. where cassava is the staple). Marasmus is due
to a continued restriction of both calories and protein, as well as other
nutrients. In Indonesia, the majority of the PCM cases are of the marasmic
type. In all manifestations of PCM, failure of growth is the first and most
important sign. The severe cases require hospitalization and, despite skilled
treatment, the mortality rate is significant.
3.        For every severe case of PCM, there are marny more cases which are
mild or moderate, in which individuals are underweight or undersized due to
dietary deficiency. Apart from delayed physical development, such children
are at great risk as they are liable to develop severe forms of PCM if they
1/   In 1933, Dr. Cecily Williams first described this form of PCM.  She
called it by its local Ghanaian name - Kwashiorkcor, which means "the
sickness the deposed child gets when the new baby is born", indicating
the result of sudden weaning. The name has been accepted in medicine.
In kwashiorkor there is a failure to thrive, loss of appetite, diarrhea,
edema and a generalized unhappiness or apathy; a characteristic der-
matititis called "flakey-paint" is usually present and the hair is often
sparse, thin and reddish.
2/   Marasmus means to waste away and is the childhood equivalent of starva-
tion in adults. Marasmus is characterized by muuscle wasting, loss of
subcutaneous fat, and very low body weight.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
suffer gastro-intestinal or respiratory disease or infections such as measles,
tuberculosis or malaria. PCM increases morbidity and mortality rates of young
children, retards the physical growth of survivors and impairs mental develop-
ment. In Indonesia, the infant mortality rate ranges between 110-150 per
thousand, compared to a rate of 38 in neighboring Malaysia and 68 in the
Philippines. Indonesia's high infant mortality rate is, to a great extent,
the result of the heavy incidence of PCM.
Vitamin A Deficiency
4.        The incidence of vitamin A deficiency in Indonesia, is among the
highest in the world, particularly among children. Xerophthalmia, 1/ which
competes with trachoma as a cause of blindness, is due to prolonged vitamin A
deficiency. A xerophthalmia percentage of 3.1 was recorded for 375,000 eye
patients reporting to health clinics throughout Indonesia during 1972. A
study conducted in the 1960s 2/ shows that blindness caused by vitamin A
deficiency in East Java is 250 per 100,000. The incidence of xerophthalmia
among children has been found to be 4-5 percent in rural Java with rates of up
to 22 percent in urban squatter areas.
5.        The serious incidence of vitamin A deficiency led to the implemen-
tation during 1973/74 of a pilot project to distribute high dosage vitamin A
capsules in selected areas of Java to children between 12 and 48 months of
age. However, a nationwide program for vitamin A capsule distribution was
decided against because of high recurrent costs. As intake of vitamin A
capsules is only a short term solution, efforts are needed to increase the
consumption of foods naturally rich in vitamin A.
Iodine Deficiency
6.        The prevalence of goiter, caused by iodine deficiency, has long
been recognized. In the early stages, goiter may cause no symptoms, but
untreated goiter causes difficulty in breathing, coughing and voice changes.
Surveys undertaken in 1972 3/ in the provinces of North and West Sumatra, East
1/   Xerosis means abnormal dryness of the eye or skin.  Xerophthalmia covers
the whole range of ocular changes, from mild local or generalized xerosis
of the conjunctiva to the most severe type involving the cornea.
2/   T.D. Johanna, "Causes of Blindness in and Around Surabaya, East Java."
Thesis, University of Indonesia, Jakarta, 1968.
3/   "The Prevalence of Endemic Goiter Among School Children in Some Parts
of Sumatra, Java and Bali, Indonesia." Djumadios et al Pen. Gizi, pp.
24-30, 1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Java and Bali, indicated a high incidence of goiter (60 to 80 percent) among
the children surveyed. Based on the results of 35 studies of endemic goiter,
it has been estimated 1/ that at least 10 million people are affected by
goiter, 100,000 by cretinism and 500,000 by the early stages of cretinism.
Cretinism, as a result of severe iodine deficiency, manifests itself through a
wide range of symptoms: mental retardation, impaired physical development
(short stature), deafness, deaf-mutism and neurological abnormalities.
Nutritional Anemia
7.        The widespread existence of nutritional anemia, mostly due to iron
deficiency, has been recognized in Indonesia only recently. Prior to 1970,
investigations on nutritional anemia had been confined to pregnant women in
hospitals. Joint studies by the Bank and the Indonesian Nutrition Research
Institute undertaken in 1973 2/ revealed that Indonesia has the highest
country incidence (28-52 percent) of nutritional anemia ever recorded in a
male population except during famine conditions. The study concluded that
a major factor that affects labor productivity is anemia caused by iron
deficiency.
8.        A 1974 study 3/, attempting to correct nutritional anemia, revealed
that the productivity of anemic workers was 20 percent less than the
the productivity of non-anemic workers. Treatment cf the anemic workers by
oral iron therapy for a period of 60 days raised their productivity to the
same level as the non-anemic workers.
Food Patterns and Habits 4/
9.        Unmixed white rice is the preferred basic food in Indonesia.  Where
rice is not available in sufficient quantities or is too costly, the basic food
becomes a mixture of rice and corn, cassava or sweel: potatoes. The main source
of animal protein is salted and dried fish. In mosi: parts of Indonesia, meat
1/  A. Querido, "A Proposal for the Eradication of Goiter and Cretinism in
Indonesia", University of Leiden, 1973.
2/   D. Karyadi, and S. S. Basta, Nutrition and HeaLth of Indonesian Con-
struction Workers", IBRD Staff Paper No. 152 (L973).
3/   S.S. Basta and A. Churchill, "Iron Deficiency and the Productivity of
Adult Males in Indonesia", IBRD Staff Paper No. 175 (1974).
4/   Social and Cultural Aspects of Food Patterns and Food Habits in Five
Rural Areas in Indonesia; Mely G. Tan et al, National Institute of
Economic and Social Research, Jakarta. Mimeograph, 1970.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
and eggs are not consumed daily; consumption of animal protein is lowest
in Central and East Java.   Pulses are the most readily available source of
protein.   However, they and other sources of vegetable protein are in-
frequently consumed. Leaves of cassava, sweet potato and papaya occasionally
form part of the menu. Fruits are consumed in season, provided there remains
a surplus after selling.
10.       Food consumption patterns, besides being affected by income, are
influenced by sex, age, festivals, customs, taboos, attitudes and external
influences. Ritual meals relate to the life cycle of the individual, to
Moslem and Hindu-Dharma religious festivals and to events related to the
agricultural cycle. Such occasions call for elaborate meals, during which
the men are accorded priority in consumption. Women's food habits are re-
stricted by custom, taboos and beliefs. Few taboos related to males.
11.       Breastfeeding is still widely practised.  Weaning occurs between
the first and second year but may be later. In addition to their own milk,
mothers normally provide a supplement consisting of soft mashed rice or
banana. After the second year no special food is prepared for the child,
wgho then shares the family meal.
12.       High status foods are white rice, meat, chicken, eggs, spinach,
cabbage, longbeans, big fish and bean sprouts, but they are regarded as
being suitable only for special guests or special occasions. Low status
foods such as, bulgur, cassava, salted/dried fish, corn, mixed rice, and
sweet potato leaves are eaten on a daily basis.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition
General Objectives
1.        In 1975, the Nutrition Research Institute became the Center for
Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN). It had been established under
the Ministry of Health as a national organization responsible for meeting
national nutrition policy and planning needs, providing baseline data for
the evaluation of intervention programs and meeting technical training and
educational requirements. The CRDN is supervised by the National Institute
of Health, Research and Development. Presently, the CRDN is ill-equipped and
understaffed and cannot undertake the needed operational research. Specific-
ally, the project component would:
(a)  expand the physical structure of the Center by constructing
and/or enlarging laboratories, the auditorium, library and
staff housing (see Annex 10);
(b) strengthen the administrative and scientific capabilities of
the Center by expanding the professional staff from the pres-
ent 12 to a total of 44; through recruitment of consultants
and new staff, and training of existing staff (see
Appendices 2 and 3);
(c) improve and widen the types of research already undertaken
through the acquisition of the necessary equipment;
(d) arrange for monitoring and evaluation of nutrition inter-
vention programs;
(e) initiate studies and conduct research on the economic and
social aspects of food and nutrition needed to support policy
formulation and planning by BAPPENAS and other related
ministries and agencies; and
(f) provide technical support and facilities for practical
experience - both in laboratories and in the field - to
students allied to different academic nutrition programs.
2.        The Nutrition Research Institute (NRI) was attached until 1975 to
the Directorate of Nutrition, under the Director General of Medical Care in
the Ministry of Health. Its objectives had been to identify nutritional
problems in communities, conduct research studies for improved nutritional
status and serve as a research and information center.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        In 1974 the total budget for the Institute was about Rp 48,870,000
(US$118,000) of which one third was for routine administration and two thirds
for research and development. The funds are allocated by the Ministry of
Health and in the last four years there has been a steady and significant
increase in the research and development budget. The 1975 budget was Rp
77,057,000 (US$185,679), an increase of 58 percent over the previous year.
4.        The Institute has made a very substantial contribution to research
and much of the effort has been directed at important nutritional problems
of the country but limited in scope and largely biomedically oriented. Part
of the research has been done in collaboration or consultation with other
leading Indonesian and international institutions.
The Need and Rationale
5.        There is a lack of basic nutritional data on the causes and extent
of malnutrition and of efficient means for controlling various forms of mal-
nutrition. The Government has recognized the need for increased research for
a variety of interventions to improve nutritional status and for collection of
baseline data relating to nutrition. The CRDN can play an important role in
this coordinated effort only if its present resources are strengthened and
expanded.
6.        The proposed project would expand the role of the Center through
an increase of its staff, buildings and equipment. With the expansion and
strengthening of the Center, it would become a national organization with a
diversified research program which would be relevant to the needs of planners
as well as those responsible for implementing the proposed nutrition develop-
ment project. The Center would be responsible and have competence for:
(a) diagnosing and monitoring the nutritional status of the
population of the country;
(b) determining the causative factors of Indonesia's nutritional
problems and their relative significance;
(c) identifying possible solutions, preparing action programs
and advising and cooperating with responsible agencies in
their implications;
(d) cooperating in the training of specialists and non-special-
ists dealing with nutrition related activities;
(e) providing advice on content of nutritional curricula
development and cooperating in nutrition education
activities; and
(f) providing the technical information required for nutri-
tional planning and program development at national level.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Proposed Structural Organizational Structure
7.        The reorganization of the Center coincides with the Government's
interest in developing a national nutrition plan and the simultaneous for-
mulation of action programs. To be useful for planning, research has to
deal initially with symptoms and causes of malnutrition which require a
broad combination of capabilities in different discipLines and an organiza-
tion to facilitate integrated operations. These elements have been taken
into consideration in the preparation of the proposals.
8.        The Center for Research and Development of Nutrition would be
reorganized into four divisions: The Division of Food Science, Division
of Biochemical Nutrition, Division of Community Nutrition and the Division
of Nutritional Socio-Economics.
The Work Programs of the Center
9.        The work program of the Center would be oriented toward applied
research, with participation in most cases of more than one division. The
following briefly indicates the primary responsibilities of each division.
(a)  Division of Food Sciences
(i) Prepare up-to-date Food Composition Tables for Indonesia and
determine the nutritive value of foods now available.
(ii) Study possible ways of improving the nutritional value of
presently available and commonly consumed foods, by fortifi-
cation, adequate combinations and special processing (includ-
ing fermentation).
(iii) Study possible ways of increasing the consumption and/or
utilization of available but not commonly consumed food
resources.
(iv) Explore the development of new foods on the basis of avail-
able or potentially available sources.
(v) Study factors limiting or interfering with nutrient utili-
zation in commonly consumed foods and ways of eliminating
such factors.
(vi) Study the nutritional value of new or modified foods.
(b)  Division of Biochemical Nutrition
(i) Study ways of satisfying nutritional requirements, particularly
of vulnerable groups, with locally available foods.
(ii) Develop and/or test methods for the diagnosis of the nutritional
status of individuals.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(iii) Study the effects of physiological or clinical conditions on
food and nutrient utilization.
(c) Division of Community Nutrition
(i)  Assess the nutritional status of population groups (surveys
and surveillance).
(ii)  Study the epidemiology of nutritional problems.
(iii) Develop and/or test nutrition interventions at the local
level.
(iv)  Study the effects and methods of prevention, treatment and
rehabilitation of common nutritional deficiencies (PCM,
nutritional anemias, vitamin A deficiency and endemic
goiter).
(v) Develop the content and methodology of nutrition education
messages and test their effectiveness.
(d) Division of Nutritional Socio-Economics
(i)  Study national (or regional) food availability in relation to
recommended allowances and establish desirable goals for food
availability and consumption.
(ii)  Study economic and social factors affecting food consumption.
(iii) Analyse the relative value of different national policies
and programs to improve nutrition, assess their possible
constraints and recommend alternative solutions.
(iv)  Evaluate the nutritional effects of different intervention
programs at the community level.
Supporting Services
10.       Supporting services would include a statistical unit, a library and
an audio-visual unit which would have document reproduction facilities. The
statistical unit would be headed by a statistician, with sufficient ex-
perience of computer programming in order to carry out the design and analysis
of baseline data and other surveys. An improved library with a competent
librarian and information retrieval system would be provided. A service
for production of audio-visual aids and document reproduction would have
necessary equipment and one technician.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Training Services
11.       In addition to its main research functions, the Center would serve as
an important training center, providing facilities for practical work both in
the laboratories and in the field to students in different academic programs.
All four divisions of the Center would be involved in this training. Through
this the Center's work would be strengthened by stimulating the academic in-
terests of all staff members. Collaboration with the Agricultural University,
Bogor (IPB) and the Agency for (Agricultural) Research and Development to
undertake joint research is contemplated. In addition, use of the facilities
of the Center for national and international seminars and conferences would be
encouraged. The Center would continue to provide facilities on an individual
basis to Indonesians and others who wish to engage in nutrition research
leading to advanced degrees. The Director would be in charge of training coor-
dination, assisted by the Administrative Division.
Administrative Services
12.       For an efficient operation, the Center would require well-organized
administrative services staffed by qualified personnel to deal with budgeting,
accounting, personnel, maintenance and general services, purchases, supplies,
and transportation. The Center would have a competent and experienced admin-
istrative officer and at least one officer in charge of purchases and supplies.
The organizational structure of the Center is shown in the following chart.






ANNEX 2
Page 6
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PRIOJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF CrIO
Director
Administration
Coordination of
Training
Division of                Biochemical o               Div. of Community             Div. of Nutritional
Food Sciences                 BNutrition    l                 Nutrition                Socio-Economics
World Bank-16601






ANNEX 2
Page 7
Staff Requirements and their Training Needs
13.       Professional staff which would work full-time at the Center, with
adequate renumeration, benefits and working conditions would be needed to
expand the size and scope of the Center's activities. (Terms of references,
see Appendix 3.) A four-year plan for recruitment and training of additional
staff, and advanced training for existing staff has been formulated. This
is summarized in Appendices I and 2.
14.       Further needs for training can be determined only when the past
training and experience of the new personnel, still to be recruited is
evaluated. The project component includes fellowships for special training in
research at suitable institutions abroad. The tables indicating the need for
training of new staff are estimates based on present information of likely
manpower availabilities.
15.       The additional training for existing technical staff also depends
to some extent on the training and experience of the rnew personnel recruited.
Efforts should be made to ensure that staff training is in institutions
which deal with development problems similar to those in Indonesia. Cen-
ters in developing countries should be used, as far as possible, for staff
training.
Consultants
16.       Consultant time of 24 man-months has been included.  Job descrip-
tions are in Appendix 4.
Costs
17.       The total base costs of the component would be US$5,861,000 of
which 42 percent would involve foreign exchange. Details of civil works
costs are given in Annex 10, an analysis of the total costs is in Annex 11
and details of training costs in Appendix 3.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
Staffing Requirements
Year            0        1         2         3          4
Professional
(M.S. or
higher)              12 1/      13       20        34         44
Technical            16         22       40        68          88
Total                28         35       60       102         132
1/   Of these, 2 M.D.'s and 1 Ph.D. are part-time.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Center for Research and Development in. Nutrition
Education and Training Requirements
Abroad      Indonesia
Total Number
Ph.D. Program
Food/Agriculture Economist                                      1            -
Program Analyst/Planner                                         1            -
Sociologist                                                     1            -
Nutritional Epidemiologist                                      1            _
Medical Doctor/Public Health                                    1            _
Physiologist                                                    -            1
Food Scientist                                                  -            1
Nutritional Sociologist                                         -            1
Social Anthropologist                                           -            1
5            4
M.S./MPH
Physiologist                                                    1            -
Public Health Nutritionist                                      1            2
Nutritional Biochemist                                          1            -
Hematologist                                                    1            -
Veterinarian                                                    1
Nutritionist                                                    1            -
Food Scientist                                                  2            _
Assistant Epidemiologist                                        1
Communication Technologist                                      1-
Food Toxicologist                                               1            -
11            2
B.S.
Food Chemist                                                    -            1
TOTAL PROFESSIONALS TRAINED                               16            7
Short-term Training and Visits (in man-months)                    Man-Months
Director                                                        3
Administrator                                                   3            -
Heads of Divisions                                             12            -
Food Analyst                                                    3
B.S. and Technicians                                            -            6
TOTAL MAN-MONTHS OF SHORT-TERM TRAINING                   21            6
AND VISITS
NOTE: The period of time required for Ph.D. and B.S.
programs is 36 months and for M.S./MPH 24 months.
The Ph.D. candidates would be selected from M.S.
graduates.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 2
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
Phasing and Cost of Training in Indonesia
(In Number of Man-Years and US$)
Type of
Training       Yr. 1        Yr. 2         Yr. 3       Yr. 4          TOTAL
Ph.D.             2           3             4            3             12
M.S.              1           1             1            1              4
3           4             5            4            16
Cost at $3,250
per man-year       9,750     13,000        16,250       13,000 1/    $ 52,000
B.S.               1         1             1            1            4
Cost at $1,250
per man-year       1,250     1,250         1,250        1,250        5,000
Short term
training for B.S.
(in man-months)   2          2             2           -             6
Cost at $1,250
per man-year       208      208            208          -            $    624
TOTAL COSTS        11,208   14,458         17,708       14,250       $ 57,624
1/   One of the Ph.D. trainees who would start in the third year would
have to go on one year beyond the project period. The cost has
been added to the fourth year.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 3
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
Phasing and Cost of Training Abroad
(Number of Man-Years and US$)
Type of
Training       Yr. 1        Yr. 2         Yr. 3       Yr. 4          TOTAL
Ph.D.             3           4             5           3              15
M.S.              6           6             5           5              22
9          10            10           8             37
Cost at $7,500
per man-year      67,500     75,000        75,000       60,000 1/    $277,500
Short term
training and
visits (in man-  12          9             -            --           21
months)
Cost at $7,500
per man-year       7,500      5,625        -                          $ 13,125
TOTAL COSTS                                                          $290z625
1/   One of the Ph.D. trainees who would have to start in the third year
would have to go on one year beyond the project period. The cost
has been added to the fourth year.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
Qualifications of the Senior Staff Members - CRDN
1.        Senior staff members should not only be professionally competent
in their field, but should also have leadership capabilities and a wide
understanding of problems outside their own discipline. Special care
should be placed in the selection and training of the senior staff
members, who would require to have the following qualifications:
Division of Food Sciences
2.        Food scientist, agricultural chemist or food technologist; with
training at the level of Ph.D. or equivalent. Must have basic knowledge
of nutrition, understanding of the local conditions and with previous post-
graduate research experience of at least 3-4 years.
Division of Biochemical Nutrition
3.        M.D. or biochemist with an additional specialization in basic
nutrition, a sound knowledge of physiology and metabolism and a previous
post-graduate research experience of at least 3-4 years.
Division of Community Nutrition
4.        M.D. or nutritionist with specialization in public health nutrition
and solid basis in epidemiology. Adequate field experience and research
capabilities.
Division of Nutrition Socio-Economics
5.        Economist or nutritionist, with training at the level of Ph.D. or
equivalent. Must have training and previous research experience in food and
nutrition of at least 3-4 years.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Center for Research and Development in Nut:rition
Qualifications of Consultants
Senior Nutrition Researcher With Experience in Nutrition Policy
Planning (12 months)
1.        Four to six visits totaling 12 months are foreseen for a senior
advisor to advise the Director and to assist with the implementation of
this component. This consultant must have experience in nutrition policy
and planning in developing countries and in research programs of the type
to be conducted by the Center. This consultant would provide continuing
advice over the whole five-year period of the project.
Economist With Experience in Food Policy (6 months)
2.        Two visits totaling six months are foreseen for an economist
familiar with food policy of developing countries. It would be advantageous
to have the same consultant on the two occasions. The Eirst visit would be
after the establishment of the new Division of Nutrition Socio-Economics and
would entail work with the Director of the Center, the new Division Head and
the staff to develop a detailed program of research and work for the Division.
The second visit, 12-18 months later, would be to follow up on the activities,
to provide advice on the research program and other activities, and to provide
any other help called for by the Director and Division [Head.
Community Nutrition Consultant (4 months)
3.        This consultant would need to have special training and experience
in nutrition survey methodology and in the evaluation of nutrition projects.
He would advise the Division of Community Nutrition concerning its work
program, paying particular attention to the methodology for collecting
baseline data and for evaluation of programs. The same consultant might
be used for survey and evaluation aspects for the NIPP section of the
proposal, and guidance and advice on staffing training, research activities,
etc. Two separate visits by this consultant might be needed.
Other Consultants (2 months)
4.        Two months consultant time is left open to be filled according to
ad hoc work needs of the Center. This period might be divided for short
consultancies by persons with very special expertise, such as the assis-
tance of a biochemist to establish a new analytic procedure or of a food
scientist to help the Division of Food Sciences with some special aspect
of their work.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food Technology Development Center
1.        Food self-sufficiency is one of Indonesia's national objectives, but
the efforts to increase food production have not yet matched the food demand
resulting from both income and population growth. The problem is intensified
by food wastage, estimates of which range up to 25 percent, and by the con-
straint on arable land, especially on Java. While increasing food production
is the role of agricultural programs, the responsibility of food technology is
to optimize food utilization and nutritional value of a given level of agricul-
tural production. The introduction of food technology geared at preserving
perishables, reducing food wastage during storage, processing, marketing and
improving the nutritional quality Qf foods would have a beneficial impact on
food utilization and on nutritional quality of food.
2.        Over 80 percent of the population of Indonesia live in the rural
areas dispersed in about 60,000 villages. In the current development plan,
emphasis is given to rural development programs. The application of food
technology in the rural areas should concentrate on methods which use local
resources and require very low cost equipment. Modern food technology would
have to be adapted in scale and in sophistication to the Indonesia context and
this is presently constrained by the shortage of professional staff and
adequate facilities.
Present Status of Training, Research and Development in Food Technology
3.        Research activity in food science and food technology which is
currently in progress is limited in Indonesia. The centers of research in
this field are primarily:
(a)  The Chemical Research Institute of the Department of Industry
at Bogor, whose functions include service to agriculturally
based processing industries. The only ongoing investigation
of direct relevance to the project is concerned with the fer-
mentation of soybeans.
(b)  The Gajah Mada University at Yogyakarta, where problems
relating to processing of food cash crops and to the utiliza-
tion of food waste products are being studied. On a limited
scale, attempts are being made to identify problems in rural
communities.
(c)  The Faculty of Agricultural Mechanization and Produce Tech-
nology at the Agricultural University, Bogor (IPB) is under-
taking the following investigations:
(i) evaluation of small scale rice milling equipment;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(ii)  production of jam from local fruits;
(iii) production of vinegar from coconut milk and fruit
juices;
(iv)  improvement in the quality of smoked fish, dry salted
and quick salted fish cakes;
(v)  egg preservation using traditional preservatives;
(vi)  chemical and mechanical methods for decoroticating beans;
(vii)  extraction of oil from soybeans, groundnuts, kapok and
sunflower seeds; and
(viii)  development of bottled soybean-based drinks, soybean
curd and soybean paste.
These are all small-scale pilot studies. Further research
as well as additional laboratory equipment, p:ilot plant, and
research staff would be required to arrive at practical solu-
tions for implementation in rural areas or by the food industry.
(d)  The Cernter for Research and Development of Nutrition, Bogor, is
carrying out studies on the production of a weaning food based
on soybeans, cereals and legumes and studies on the production
of tempeh, a local product derived from soybean fermentation.
(e)  The Institute of Technology, Bandung, is investigating the pro-
duction of weaning foods based on soybeans, using small-scale
extruder equipment.
4.        At none of the centers discussed above are the facilities, the
range of equipment and current staff sufficiently oriented to develop prac-
tical solutions for problems of food technology, nor is there coordination
of research work. Since 1970, IPB has produced 51 graduates specializing in
food technology; Gajah Mada has been traLanig approximately 30 students per
year.  At both cea1terS the facili.ties for practical training in food techno-
logy are still inadeqiuate and traininig is geared toward industrial processing
of cash crops, with little emphasis on improving the nutritional value of
food.
5.        The Government's Agricultural Research and Extension Project, sup-
ported by a Bank Loan, includes aspects of food technology relating to rice,
fruits and vegetables. The focus of this project relates to the production
and marketing of commercial crops, but the results of the project could have
great impact on the quality and quantity of food available for consumption.
The proposed FTDC component, oriented towards nutritional benefits through the
application of food technology, would be complementary to the Government's
Agricultural Research and Extension Project. There would be subjects of



A~NNEX 
Page  3
mutual intercst such as rice mi'"lLift  "ht-          ''Cfs D..lL leabors--.cn to
avoid duplication.  The pilot plant of the 1TDC s-hcLill bde, a tle to provide
facilities for testing techniques developed in agr LcU1t1ra1 research and
other l-otltl-  _s for 4nft      s
Component Description and Oblectives
6.        The general objective of the proposed food technology component
is to build up an institution in order to mobilize scientific and technical
knowledge from international as well as comestic institutions to improve
the use of food resources, particularly in rural areas. A Food Technology
Development Center at Bogor, associated with the Agricultural University,
would be established and staffed through the proposed components It is
anticipated that the Center would become the focal point of food technology
research. The proposed component provides research laboratories, a library
and facilities including food processing equipment, experimental rural food
storage and processing units, and pilot plants to demonstrate food processing.
The project would also finance the establishment of a 10 man extension unit
in the FTDC.
7.        The Center's primary emphasis would be on improvirg the level of
applied technology and ensuring its transfar to food irndus- iL  ans  agricul-
ture.  The Center's work would focus on reducing food losses in processing
and storage as well as on developing improved methods oL processing staple
foods in order to raise nutritive values and on exploring opportunities
for food fortification. Additional research and development work would be
geared towards reducing food losses through packaging, standardization and
quality control, storage trials, new product development, and handling and
transportation of foods from farms to markets.  The specific functions of
FTDC would be:
(a)  to act as the focal point for the provision  - f fifo-r-
mation and advice on food technology;
(b)  to provide training for food technologists and exte-n-
sionists both for simple rural and large scale
industrial requirements;
(c)  to identify problems and opportunities associated with
food preservation and processing and to initiate studies
for their solution;
(d)  to collaborate with CRDN, NIPP, the Nutrition Academy,
agricultural research and extension agencies and other
institutions dealing with food anid agriculture9 and
(e)  to advise the Governme-at on matters pertaining to food
and nutrition legislation (i.e. storage, processing,
distribution and quality control')



ANNEX 3
Page 4
8.        While the CRDN would be responsible for the nutritional evaluation
of existing foods and would develop new foods on a laboratory scale, the FTDC
would be responsible for developing the necessary processing methods both for
small-scale, rural and industrial entities.
9.        In Indonesia, with its wide variety of cultur/ss, food storage and
preparation methods differ considerably from region to region. These methods
should be appraised for their effectiveness to determine what methods could
be feasible for wider application.
10.       The production of food supplements for remedial feeding in NIPP
areas would be undertaken locally but their quality would be monitored by
the FTDC. Field staff in the NIPP areas would inform the FTDC of any prob-
lems relating to transport, storage, processing, preparation, preservation,
marketing and quality control of foods. FTDC's extension staff would in-
vestigate these problems, work out solutions in simulated rural conditions
at the Center, and then transfer this knowledge to the field.
Research Program
11.       The proposed research program (detailed in Appendix 1), which the
appraisal mission reviewed and found satisfactory, would be concerned primarily
with methods to improve the utilization of food in the rural areas. In addi-
tion, it would also focus on work relating to the food manufacturing industry.
The main research focus would be on:
(a) Assessing traditional processing and storage technology
to form the basis for developing and testing more effi-
cient methods to reduce wastage in storage and processing
and thereby increase availability of food products.
Evaluation for technical and cost effectiveness would
precede the development of a national storageM program
(see para. 3.25-3.26).
(b)  Developing efficient means of rice drying methods to
prevent deterioration during storage and of packing
methods to minimize transport and storage losses.
(c)  Improving food processing with a view to increase the
nutritive value and yield of processed products. (For
example, it would explore rice parboiling prtesently not
practiced in Indonesia. Parboiling would reduce the
vitamin losses which occur when rice is polished, improve
its value as a source of protein both in quantity and
quality and prolong its storage life.)
(d) Assessing opportunities for food fortificatiDn; preserva-
tion of perishable crops; increasing the nutritional value
of processed foods; utilization of waste products such as
rice bran; the processing of foods for urban markets and
for export; and methods of quality control.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       Following the initial laboratory studies of the various food
technology problems, experimental designs of equipment would be developed
and tested on a larger scale in the experimental rural food processing units
of the FTDC. Satisfactory prototypes would subsequently be tested in the
rural areas by members of the Center's extension service.
The Extension Services
13.       The FTDC would have a pilot extension unit of ten staff members
who would be associated with the Agricultural University of Bogor (IPB)
extension service. The members of the unit would collect information from
the diverse cultural regions of Indonesia on traditional methods for storage,
preservation, processing and preparation of foods and would identify associ-
ated problems. Both FTDC and CRDN would systematically analyse this informa-
tion in order to select methods suitable for general application and to solve
the problems of storage and processing identified by the extension staff.
Simultaneously, the centers would select technical improvements, drawing as
much as possible on existing know how from both developing and developed
countries. Recommended technical improvements, having been verified in the
prototype units at FTDC, would be tested in selected villages by the exten-
sion staff. Methods demonstrated to be suitable would be made known to
the agricultural extension service and other organizations involved in rural
development.
14.       The FTDC extension staff would assist the Nutrition Intervention
Pilot Project (NIPP) to set up production units in rural areas in order to
provide sufficient quantities of foods suitable for supplementary feeding.
In addition, the unit would assist small and medium scale food industries,
in both urban and rural areas, to increase the efficiency of their operation
and improve the quality of their products.
15.       FTDC would prepare reports on the successful application of food
technology in the rural areas. These reports would be distributed to those
concerned with rural development in Indonesia and would be included in the
curricula of courses in food technology, nutrition, agricultural extension
and rural development.
Training Responsibilities
16.       The staff of the FTDC will also serve as faculty members of IPB
with teaching responsibilities. Both the research and food processing labora-
tories of the FTDC would be used for practical training in conjunction with
B.S. and M.S. programs in food technology offered at IPB.  Ph.D. candidates
would also have access to these facilities.
17.       Also, the Center would offer short courses for:  personnel in
the rural food industry and food industry technicians; teachers from technical
institutions and vocational colleges; agricultural extension officers; and
nutritionists.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
18.       To ensure adequate training in food technology, laboratory equipment
for the science laboratories of IPB would be provided.
Organization and Management
19.       The Director of the FTDC would be responsible for the administra-
tion of the Center, for the direction of the research and development pro-
grams and for the extension activities. Overall budgetary control of the
Center would be the responsibility of the Rector of IP13, who would be assisted
by the IPB Director of Administration and Finance.
Staffing
20.       The Director of the Center, an Indonesian food technologist of
sufficient stature and administrative ability, would be appointed immediately
after project effectiveness. A section head for food processing would be
appointed beginning with the second project year to assist in the installation
of the processing equipment. The Technical and Procurement Officer, the
Processing Plant Manager and the Chief Librarian will also be appointed at
that time.
21.       At present there are six Ph.D. candidates studying food science
or technology abroad. They have been sponsored by IPB and USAID and are due
to return in 1978. IPB has agreed that three of them will join the Center.
22.       By 1978, M.S. graduates in food technology, under ongoing government
programs, would be available for the posts of Research Officers and Senior
Extension Officers. Research Assistants and Extension Officers would be
recruited from the current B.S. candidates at IPB and Gajah Mada. Technical
Officers and Technicians would be recruited from engineering graduates from
the Bandung Institute of Technology.
23.       In all, there would be 23 senior positions and 50 junior positions
by the end of the fourth year (see Appendix 2, Table 1).
Staff Development
24.       The project provides 28 fellowships to candidates for the
position of research assistant and extension officer and 7 fellowships to
those working towards an M.S. degree at IPB (see Appendix 3, Table 1 and 2).
25.       The project would also finance in-service training in the use of
food processing equipment for B.S. and M.S. candidates. Eighteen man-years of
long-term fellowships abroad are provided to give the faculty adequate train-
ing in modern food technology work.
26.       To gain specialized knowledge in the fields of food storage and
general food technology, three M.S. candidates would need training abroad.
Fellowships also include provision for specialized Ph.D. training abroad in



ANNEX 3
Page 7
food engineering, food biochemistry and nutrition, quality control and food
microbiology and hygiene. Phasing of training abroad is given in Appendix 3.
27.       Short-term training and visits abroad for Center staff are also
provided under the project. The Director would have a period of two months of
training in administration at a center abroad and would have a total period of
three months visiting food research and training centers. The processing
plant manager and research officers who receive M.S. training in Indonesia
would visit food research and information centers in South and Southeast
Asia.
Technical Assistance
28.       The project provides for about 96 man-months of short-term technical
assistance to help establish the facilities of the Center and to assist with
the program of work. Terms of reference for these specialists are given in
Appendix 4.
Physical Facilities
29.       The buildings of the FTDC would be located on the campus of the
Agricultural University at Bogor. They would consist of two blocks, one
for research laboratories, the library, lecture and seminar rooms and one
for food processing equipment and facilities for an experimental food proces-
sing pilot plant. The experimental rural food storage and processing units
would be located adjacent to these facilities.
30.       With a view to improving the training in the science subjects
essential to food technology, laboratory equipnient for the science labora-
tories at IPB would be provided from project funds.
Costs
31.       The total base costs of the component would be US$5,525,000 of
which 56 percent would involve foreign exchange. Details of civil works
are given in Annex 10 and an analysis of the total costs in Annex 11.
Costs of training and consultants/advisors are given in Appendix 3.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food Technology Development Center
Research Studies
Prevention of Losses During Storage
1.        Drying - In many areas of the country crop drying is a problem
because of the high relative humidity and frequent rainfall. Sun driers would
be designed and tested to meet the conditions encountered in the different
regions of Indonesia. Supplementary air drying methods would be studied.
2.        Storage - The general specifications for buildings to minimize
losses during storage are well known. Investigations are needed to find
ways of meeting these general specifications using, wherever possible, local
materials and methods of construction. Experimental designs would be evaluated
on the site of the FTDC and successful prototypes tested in rural areas.
Processing of Foods for Local Needs
3.        Preservation of Perishable Crops for Out of Season Use - Drying is
the simplest and most effective method of food preservation. Methods of
preserving and retaining the vitamins in Indonesia food crops would be
studied, not neglecting traditional methods such as salting, smoking and
fermentation.
4.        Increasing the Nutritional Value of Harvest:ed Crops - In collabora-
tion with the CRDN, the main aspects studied would be, in collaboration with
the CRDN, on methods of producing quantities of optimum protein mixtures made
up of the locally available cereals and legumes in a given region. Model
production units designed to ensure efficiency of manufacture, together with
high standards of hygiene, would be developed and tested in the FTDC site
before field trials. Parboiling of rice is an important process for study
since it reduces the losses of protein and vitamins which occur when rice is
polished. The milling ratio and quality of grain is also increased by the
process. Unfortunately the standard parboiling process gives a product not
readily acceptable to most Indonesians. The development of acceptable food
products from parboiled rice would produce considerable nutritional benefit to
both urban and rural populations.
Processing of Foods for Transfer From Rural to Urban Areas
5.        The processing of produce gains increasing importance in order
to retain their nutritional value and produce a more stable food product for



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
marketing in urban areas. The production of cereal/legume protein weaning
food mixtures is one such example. In addition to improving the nutritional
value of the diet in urban areas, the setting up of small manufacturing units
in the rural areas would increase the monetary value of the marketed products
- inter alia increase rural incomes - and reduce transport and storage costs
since the bulk of processed food is less than that of the raw materials.
Processing of Food Crops for Export from Indonesia
6.        There are a number of cash crops such as coffee, tea and spices
which do not have nutritional significance but are valuable export commodities.
Processing technology associated with these commodities is well advanced and
research is continually being undertaken at various international centers
throughout the world. Therefore, the Center should devote only a limited
amount of research on these commodities.
Quality Control
7.        In the preparation of all food products, it is essential that
tests should be made during the processing stage and particularly of the final
product to ensure that:
(a) nutritional standards are maintained;
(b) no harmful substances are present;
(c) standards of hygiene are maintained and the product is
free from contamination by harmful micro-organisms which
would cause rapid deterioration during storage; and
(d)  the product is of the required standard regarding flavor,
color and appearance. Standard methods of quality control will
need to be applied to all manufacturing processes and may
need to be adapted to Indonesian food and conditions. Advice
on quality control aspects will be given to the larger
manufacturing units who will, however, have their own
staff and facilities for maintaining control.
8.        The small processing units sited in the rural areas will have
neither the facilities nor the staff to maintain quality standards. There-
fore, the FTDC will need to monitor these rural food processing units. In
addition to the more comprehensive quality control tests, to be carried out
periodically on samples of products from rural processing units, new rapid
screening tests will need to be developed which can be carried out in the
field to ensure that the output is safe to eat. This system of testing is
particularly important in the case of the production of weaning foods since
children are more susceptible to harmful micro-organisms in foods.



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food Technology Development Center
Staff List at Full Development in Year 4
Clerical
Professional       Senior Technical        Junior Technical       and General         Others
Administration
Director                            1
Executive Secretary                 1                                                                 6
Finance Officer                     1
General Manager                     1                                                                 4               6
Technical Services
Technical Officers                  1                    2                      10
Processing Plant Manager            1                                                                                 4
Librarian                           1                                            2
Sections
Microbiology                                              1
Biochemistry                                             1
Quality Control                                          1>                     12
Food Processing                                          1
Research Officers                                        6
Extension Services                    1                    3                       6
Sub-Total                           8                   15                      30                   10              10
Agricultural University,
Bogor, Administration                                      2                       2                    2
TOTAL                               8                   17                      32                   12              10



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Table 2
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food Technology Development Center
Schedule of Establishment Costs (Constant 1976 US$'000)
Yr. 1      Yr. 2       Yr. 3      Yr. 4
FTDC
Strength of Establishment          11          20          59         79
of which
Senior Staff                       6           10          23         25
Support Staff                      5           10          36         54
Total Establishment Cost           25          46         133         176



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Food Technology Development Center
Phasing of Technical Assistance
Number of Man-Months
Year 1     Year 2       Year 3       Year 1
1. Consultant/Advisors
Program Advisor (2 years)                                6            12           6
Research Specialists (6 months ea.)           6          6            12          12
Research Specialists (3 months ea.)           6          6            12          12
TOTAL                                        12         18            36          30
Number of Fellowships
Year 1     Year 2       Year 3       Year 4
2. Fellowships
Shortterm fellowships                         2          2             1
M.Sc. Abroad - Starting                       2          1             -
(-=goi"A                        2           3            1
Ph.D. Abroad - Starting                       2          2             -
-Ongoing                        2           4            4            2
B.Sc. in Indonesia - Starting                28           -            -            -
- Ongoing                28          26           20           12
M. Sc. in Indonesia- Starting                 3          2             2           -
-Ongoing                  3           5            4            2
LI Based on tentative estimates made by the Appraisal Mission.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Table 2
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT
Food Technology Development Center
Cost of the Technical Assistance Program
Technical Assistance
Unit Cost
Number     (Constant 1976 US$)   Total Cost
(a) Consultants/Advisors
Program Advisor/Specialist for
2 years                               1                70,000           140,000
Equipment Specialists for 6
months each.                          6                30,000           180,000
Research Specialists for 3
months each.                         12                 9,500 1/        114,000
Sub-total (consultants)                                            434,000
(b) Fellowships
Fellowships short-term
(27 manmonths)                        5                 3,500            17,500
Fellowships long-term
B.S. in Indonesia                    28                 3,250            91,000
M.S. in Indonesia                      7                6,500            45,500
M.S. abroad                           3                15,000            45,000
Ph.D. abroad                          4                22,000            88,000
Sub-total                                                          287,000
TOTAL                                                        721,000
1/   Annual cost of US$16,000 for expatriates and US$4,000 for local consultants.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food Technology Development Center
Terms of Reference for Research Program Advisors/Specialists
1.        The Food Technology Development Center to be supported under
the project would require the services of a research program advisor and
research specialists to assist Indonesian scientists in establishing and
implementing an effective work program. These specialists/advisors would be
recruited directly or through international or bilateral assistance, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank with the following terms of
reference.
Program Advisor
2.        An experienced food technologist with administrative competence and
with awareness of food technology to improve nutriticin in a rural setting,
will be required to advise the FTDC. He would have EsStablished and/or managed
a food technology center with a nutritional emphasis in a developing country
and with a bias towards solution of rural agricultural problems.
3.        The Program Advisor would:
(a) cooperate with the Director of the Food Technology Development Center
and his colleagues in formulating, designing and supervising research
and action projects for improvement of food processing for storage;
(b) assist the Director in developing and implementing a pilot village
storage program;
(c) assist the Director in the selection of heads of divisions and
research specialists for the Center;
(d) assist the Center in the selection and placement overseas of
professional personnel for fellowship training for graduate
degree or study; and
(e)  assist the Director in the selection of equipment to be
procured under the project and in the compLetion of the
proposed civil works.
Research Specialists
4.        Specialists are expected to be needed in the fields of storage,
drying processing, packaging, quality control, processing equipment, rice



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 2
processing, food preservation marketing and library services. They are to
be engaged for periods ranging from 3 to 6 months.
Each specialist would:
(a) assist the staff of the Center to develop the program of work
in the area of his specialisation;
(b) arrange on-the-job training for local staff; and
(c) develop manuals, where necessary, for future guidance of the
FTDC staff.
5.        The specific qualifications desirable for specialists in the respec-
tive areas of interest to FTDC are listed below.
Category of Operation                 Experience Desirable
1.   Storage                               Knowledge and experience in research
and construction of food stores,
methods of pest control, latest tech-
niques of reduction of storage losses
in village conditions. At least 3
years experience essential.
2.   Packaging                             Research in methods of packaging
suitable to tropical village con-
ditions.   3 to 5 years experience
in field application of results of
research desirable.
3.   Quality Control                       Experience for 3 to 5 years in
monitoring the quality of output
of small-scale food conditions,
particularly of protein foods
for child feeding.
4.   Rice Processing                       Research in improved methods of
rice processing including milling,
the nutritional consequences of
different methods, their costs
and other economic impact. At
least 3 years experience desirable.
Person with actual field experience
in extension of improved rice pro-
cessing techniques preferable.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 3
Category of Operation                 Experience Desirable
5.   Food Preservation                     Research and extension in methods
of preservation of perishable
foods, particularly fruits,
vegetables and fish in tropical
climates. Experience of 5 years
desirable.
6.   Laboratory Equipment                  Experience of 5 years in a food
technology laboratory, preferably
in a developing country. He has
to assist in the selection of items
of laboratory equipment. Experi-
ence in preparation and completion
of procurement: documents for
internationally aided projects
would be a desirable qualification.
5 years of experience in receipt
and installatiLon of modern equip-
ment and in ensuring arrangements
for satisfactory maintenance of
equipment is essential.
7.   Pilot Plant Equipment                 An experienced engineer with know-
ledge of pilot plants used in a
Food Technology Institute or in a
Food Research Center. Should have
experience in procurement, instal-
lation, operation and maintenance
of equipment in food technology
labs or food processing laboratories.
8.   Library Services                      Experience for 5 years in library
management in a well-equipped food
science and technology laboratory.
Should be able to set up a system
of procurement of books and journals,
classification and library stock
control.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
1.        The Applied Nutrition Program (ANP) operated from the early 1960s
as the main intervention measure to combat malnutrition. In 1973, an evalua-
tion study of ANP indicated that the program concentrated too heavily on only
one aspect of nutrition -- the production and consumption of protein-rich
foods. It failed to provide for effective diffusion of nutrition information
and practices beyond the individual innovators and demonstration villages.
The program also failed to establish target population groups. While the
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP) would build on the awareness
created by ANP, it would be specifically directed at the nutritionally most
vulnerable population in rural areas.
2.        The proposed component was prepared by a Task Force of BAPPENAS
with the assistance of Bank staff and consultants and with close involve-
ment of all regional and local authorities concerned. In designing the
contemplated comprehensive nutrition activities of NIPP, the success and
shortcomings of the ANP experience have been taken fully into account. 1/
The proposed activities combine supplemental feeding with associated
health, education and agricultural measures.
3.        The NIPP component would develop effective measures which would
bring about improvement in the nutritional status of target populations.
Priority would be given to tackling the problem of PCM, after identifying
those in need of assistance, through (i) the provision of locally produced
supplementary food where required; (ii) the control of closely related
diseases through immunization and health care and (iii) a nutrition education
1/   The main differences between the proposed NIPP and ANP would be:
(a) size of administrative unit covered -- NIPP administrative
unit would be a Kabupaten with a population ranging between one
half and one million, whereas ANP focussed on individual
villages;
(b) NIPP emphasis is on both calorie and protein deficiencies -- ANP
tended to focus attention on production of protective and
protein-rich foods;
(c) NIPP nutrition education emphasis is on bringing about behavioral
change rather than on learning about various food groups;
(d) supportive health activities proposed in NIPP have not been
available in ANP;
(e) NIPP food supplementation for malnourished children below the
age of three, pregnant and lactating women;
(f)  proposed baseline survey of nutritional status in NIPP was not
a feature of ANP and handicapped evaluation of ANP; and
(g) attempt to focus NIPP action on the nutritionally needy,
particularly those in the low-income sector.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
campaign. The locally produced supplementary foods will be delivered through
alternative systems such as health, village officials and volunteers. There
would be integrated actions with extension services to stimulate increased
food production for home consumption, reduction in food wastage, better
utilization of available food through nutrition education and encouragement of
other income-earning activities.
Program Objectives
4.        NIPP has both nutritional and managerial objectives.  Nutritional
objectives are:
(a) to reduce morbidity and mortality resulting from protein-calorie
malnutrition (PCM), particularly among young children; and
(b) to reduce the incidence of iodine and iron deficiencies.
Among the means adopted to achieve these objectives would be:
(a) improvement of food habits and related behavior through nutrition
education;
(b) increase in food production, particularly in home gardens;
(c) improvement of food processing and storage to prevent wastage
of food and nutrients;
(d) immunization; and
(e) water supply and health insurance scheme in selected villages.
The managerial objectives are:
(a) to demonstrate the feasibility and replicability on a national
scale of specific nutrition activities to improve nutritional
status based on principles of community self-help;
(b) to develop a system or systems for delivery of food
supplements;
(c) to study the feasibility of administering a multi-disciplinary
project within the normal machinery of Government; and
(d) to develop means of measuring the effectiveness of activities
aimed at improving nutritional status.
5.        The NIPP component would improve the nutritional status of children
under the age of three, pregnant women and lactating mothers in about 180
villages distributed in 7 Kabupatens. The component would finance: the



ANNEX 4
Page 3
nutrition education of about 100,000 families; the immunization of 100,000
children against infectious diseases; supplementary feeding of 30,000
potentially severe and moderately malnourished children under the age of 3,
pregnant and lactating women; salaries of staff to train village volunteers
(village cadres) and supervise them; evaluation of the effectiveness of the
combined package of these measures and technical assistance to plan and
implement these activities. This component would also benefit from programs
for establishing home/village gardens in these villages and improvement of
storage and processing (see paras 27 to 40).
Base-Line Data
6.        A sample survey of baseline data would be carried out by the Center
for Research and Development (CRDN) during the preliminary phase of opera-
tions in all NIPP areas so that the achievements of the program could be
measured in light of the above stated objectives. Anthropometric measure-
ments (weight, height, arm circumference) 1/ and clinical examination for
anemia would be used as indicators of improvement in nutritional status. CRDN
would be responsible for collecting, analyzing and interpreting the data.
Choice of Project Areas
7.        The Government decided that NIPP should begin in the Kapubatens
of Bojonegoro in the Province of East Java and in West Lombok in the
Province of Nusa Tenggara Barat. In selecting the Kabupatens in these
provinces the following criteria were adopted: the presence of a mal-
nutrition problem; administrative support; likely positive response from
the people; an area typical of Indonesian conditions; and where the Applied
Nutrition Program has been functioning.
8.        The NIPP would be carried out in the two Kabupatens initially,
extending to two additional Kabupatens in the second year. Subject to a
review by the Government and the Bank, it will be extended to three addi-
tional Kabupatens in the last two years of the project. In the second year,
Kabupatens would be selected in Central Java and South Sumatra and, subject
to the review, selection in West Java, Yogyakarta and Bali would take place
for the third year.
9.        In the Kabupatens of Bojonegoro and West Lombok, the initial three
sub-districts selected in each are within easy reach of Kabupaten headquarters
so as to facilitate close supervision during the first operational year.
Most of the villages chosen in these sub-districts are aware of the need for
nutritional improvements from previous ANP activities. The sub-districts
selected for the second year of operations would be those which according
1/   In recent years, emphasis has been given to anthropometric measure-
ments that are truly age-independent, provided the children can be
broadly grouped as of, say, pre-school age. Measurements of arm
circumference/height, weight/height are found to be highly correlated
to malnutrition in young children, as judged by a low-weight/age
ratio or by the presence of clinical signs.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
to the base-line data surveys, have the most widespread nutritional problems
in the Kabupaten.
The Initial NIPP Areas
10.       The Bojonegoro Kabupaten is situated in the rLorthwest of the pro-
vince of East Java. It can be divided into three main areas according to
the food availability: in 55 percent of the area, food production is in
surplus; in Z5 percent of the area, production is just adequate; whereas
in the remaining area, it is in deficit. The total population in 1974 was
about 876,000, of whom 76,000 lived in the capital Bojonegoro, a typical rural
township. The rest of the Kabupaten is divided into 19 sub-districts and just
over 400 villages. The village population is about 2,000 on average which is
below the normal for Java. The total area is 2,375 sq. km., giving a popula-
tion density of about 370 per sq. km. The total area desvoted to agriculture is
about 104,000 ha and the majority of farmers have holdings under 0.5 ha. The
annual gross calories and protein values of agricultural production in Bojone-
goro were calculated to yield 1,964 calories and 39.9 g protein per capita a
day. There are 18 polyclinics, 32 health centers and 31 sub-clinics, with 7
medical officers, 84 paramedical staff and 51 midwives. Average daily attend-
ance at the polyclinics is 293, at the health centers 161 and at the sub-
clinics only 14.
11.       For the first year of operations the following sub-districts and
villages have been selected:
Sub-District                         Village
Sumberrejo                           Sumberrejo
Prayungarn
Tlogoaji
Dander                               Dander
Ngumut
Mojoranu
Kalitidu                             Ngujo
Pumpungari
Leran
12.       Sumberrejo and Dander have health clinics, all others have MCH
centers except Ngumut, which has one nearby. Sumberrejo and Dander have also
been selected as sub-districts for the INPRES for Community Development. All
villages have schools and some are covered by the Government's programs for
water supplies and provision of latrines. In each sub-district there is a
grain cooperative (BUUD). Supplementary feeding and the local processing of
supplementary food would be carried out at the BUUD depots.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
13.       Lombok is the western island of the province of Nusa Tenggara
Barat and it is divided into three Kabupatens. West Lombok Kabupaten, which
includes the provincial capital Materam, has been selected as an area for the
proposed NIPP component. The area of West Lombok is 1,728 sq. km., with a
population of about 556,000 in 1974 and 310 persons per sq. km. The total
area under cultivation in 1974 was around 96,000 ha. It is divided into 9
sub-districts and 83 villages. The villages vary in size from nearly 16,000
to just under 2,000 population. On average, the village population is about
6,500 or double that of Java. The gross calorie and protein values of agri-
cultural production on West Lombok were calculated to yield 1,690 calories
and 31.6 g of protein per capita per day. In eight of the nine sub-districts
there are polyclinics, three of which have a doctor in charge. In addition
there are 23 sub-clinics. The attendance at all the 31 health outlets is
about 9,000 per month, about 10 patients per clinic per day.
14.       The following sub-districts and villages have been selected for
the first operational year:
Sub-District                                      Village
Narmada                                           Bt. Kumbung
Selat
Sembung
Cakranegara                                       Telagawaru
Sayang-2
Kekeri
Ampenan                                           Gunungsari
Meninting
Kekait
Each of these villages has a school and most have health facilities.
Phasing of NIPP
15.       In each NIPP area activities undertaken in the first year would
include: procurement of vehicles and equipment; selection and training of NPO
and ANPO and Training Officers; collection, analysis and interpretation of
baseline data; formulation, testing and production of one or more food supple-
ments; design of a nutrition education campaign and preparation of teaching
aids; training of VANPO, village cadres and food supplement production staff;
familiarizing officials, and potential beneficiaries with the project objec-
tives; and development of a plan of operations. Appendix 5 represents pre-
liminary activities and their phasing.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
16.       The second year would be the initial year for operational activi-
ties in each selected Kabupaten. Activities would take place in three villages
in each of three sub-districts of the Kabupaten. In the third year, operations
would be extended to three more villages in each of these sub-districts and
three villages in three additional sub-districts. Appendix 6 shows the project
implementation schedule.
17.       The base-line survey would provide the basis for preparing the
plan of operations for each Kabupaten. The plan would reflect decisions
relating to the specific activities to be undertaken in each village, how and
when they would be carried out and who would be responsible for each activity.
These plans of operation would be ready well before the first operational
year in each NIPP Kabupaten.
Food Supplementation
18.       Free food supplementation would be arranged i-or children with
existing and/or potential signs of moderate/severe PCM (indicated by anthro-
pometric measures) and for malnourished, pregnant and :Lactating mothers. The
eligibility of mothers for food supplementation would be on the basis of
agreed criteria, chief among them would be low family :income levels. The food
supplementation would also be a teaching aid for nutrition education emphasi-
zing the importance of adequate feeding, since in the 'Long-run the teaching of
better feeding is far more important than the curative aspect of supplementary
feeding programs.
19.       The food supplements, consisting of a cereal and legume mixture,
would make use of locally available materials and would be processed at the
sub-district level. Selection would be made from the various supplements
already developed by the CRDN, including the simple processing and blending
techniques suitable for local use.
20.       Raw materials would be purchased and stored by the local coopera-
tives (BUUD/KUD) and processing would be carried out at cooperative depots
which would be available in each sub-district. After processing, the food
would be packed in plastic bags with capacities of either a one-week supply
for a child or a one-week supply for a mother. The village distribution point
would hold up to one month's supply of food. Distribution of the weekly food
supplements would be made against vouchers presented by the beneficiaries.
Replenishment of the month's supply of food at the distribution point would
be made against vouchers collected from the beneficiaries. The FTDC would be
responsible for monitoring the quality of the food supplement and the Pro-
vincial NIPP Audit Unit would check production and delivery of the supplements
(see Appendix 1).
Health Services
21.       Existing health services aimed at controlling infectious and para-
sitic diseases and at educating the population in personal and environmental
hygiene would be intensified in NIPP areas. Special provision would be made
in all NIPP villages for treating diarrhea and for immaunization of children



ANNEX 4
Page 7
against the common infectious diseases 1/ of smallpox, tuberculosis, diptheria,
whooping cough, and tetanus.  Over 100,000 children are expected to be immu-
nized as a result of the project.
22.       A Presidential Instruction has made provision for improved water
supplies and for family latrines. Within the NIPP component there is financial
provision for strengthening ongoing government programs for rural water supply
in seven selected villages by providing one pumpset for 25 houses.
23.       In a few selected villages, health services under NIPP would include
promotion of village health improvement schemes, based on monthly premium
payments by families into a joint community fund. Successful models have
been developed in the Solo area of Central Java and in Kampungs of Jakarta.
Each family pays a small monthly sum to a community fund; such payments
vary according to the means of the family. The fund is administered by a
committee appointed by the community. When there is sickness in a member's
family, the patient reports to the health center for treatment; the normal
fees are charged to and paid by the community fund. In some cases the commun-
ity has used the fund for local commercial loans and the interest earned has
been often sufficient to meet the health costs on a self-sustaining basis.
24.       It is expected when NIPP becomes a national program the costs
of selective food supplementation and immunization in a typical village
(population 3,000) would be around US$700 annually, amounting to annual
per capita costs of US$0.23. The Governmient expects that local communities
would ultimately share in the costs of food supplement. Ultimate annual
recurrent costs of NIPP for a typical village with a population of 3,000 would
be:
A.   Cost of Food Supplementation
Total
Total      Number Ultimately                      Costs Per
Beneficiaries   Supplemented       Units Costs US$  Annum US$
Children under 3            337               19                  4.2            80
Pregnant women               137             27                   6.3           170
Lactating mothers            120              25                 10.7           268
Sub-Total                                                                 518
B.   Cost of Immunization                                                 120
Sub-Total (A +B)                                                          638
C.   Overheads @ 10 percent                                                64
Total ultimate recurrent costs                                   702
Cost per capita                                           US$  0.23
1/   Measles is recognized to be prevalent, but because of cost considerations
immunization is not proposed in the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Nutrition Education
25.       Using primarily female village cadres as the! principal teaching
agents, special attention would be given to mothers of of malnourished
children who would receive nutrition information along with food supplement-
ation for their children. Nutrition education material would be produced and
tested for use on a national scale. The material adapted to the nutritional
conditions of each village would convey initially four main messages: (a) the
promotion and maintenance of breast feeding; (b) the use of supplementary and
more nutritious homemade weaning foods; (c) the use of locally available, cheap
foods to supplement the cereal-based diet; and (d) the impact of adequate
nutrition on child development. The program would also emphasize hygienic
food handling and the special feeding of children with diarrhea and other
diseases. The detailed content and methodology for nutrition education would
be determined on the basis of the recommendations made by the nutrition edu-
cation consultant, who would be engaged during the first year of the project.
Each village nutrition center would hold two practica:L demonstrations each
week of preparing and cooking food supplements and locally available foods.
Provision has been made for the purchase of raw materials. The prepared and
cooked food would be distributed to the families of those attending the
demonstration.
26.       The nutrition education model being developted under another compo-
nent of the project (see Annex 5) would be tested in the Kabupaten selected
for NIPP in Central Java in the second operational year. A comparison would
be made of the effectiveness of this model (which depends upon a series of
workshops, meetings and seminars at various administrative levels) with and
without collaboration with other NIPP activities. Each Kabupaten selected for
NIPP would be provided with communication equipment for use in motivation of
key personnel, training of staff and for nutrition education.
Action Program for Improved Home and Village-Gardens
27.       BIMAS has a vegetable production program covering 20,000 ha in the
Province of East Java, including 2,000 ha allocated for Bojonegoro. This
program is aimed at vegetable production for the commercial market and not
for home consumption. The Government of Indonesia proposes that the home-
garden sub-component in the NIPP areas should be separate from the BIMAS
program.
28.       The Agricultural University, Bogor (IPB), in co-operation with
the Ministry of Agriculture, is currently developing a model home-garden
package, on the basis of what is nutritionally desirable and acceptable
to the local population, horticulturally feasible and economically justi-
fiable. A survey is being undertaken of fruits, vegetables, legumes and
tubers which can provide a well-balanced supply of vitamins and minerals.
Basic management and cultivation methods for home gardens will be developed,
and an instruction manual and a training curriculum for home-garden extension
workers will be prepared. The lack of improved vegetable seeds and agri-
culture extension staff trained in horticulture constitutes a severe



ANNEX 4
Page 9
constraint to production. This component would provide salaries for 10
agricultural extension staff, seeds, fertilizer and other production oriented
services. The annual costs for this program per farm family are expected to
be in the order of US$4.5.
29.       In the province of East Java the land occupied by homeyards amounts
to 17.4 percent of the total agricultural land. The greatest constraint for
its productive use would be water supplies and, although much of the homeyard
land could not be used for the production of vegetables and fruits, a marked
increase should be possible and action, based on the home-garden package,
would be stimulated in NIPP villages.
30.       In order to establish the necessary demonstration effect, the
program would be provided, for a 3 year period, on a grant basis. Prior to
project completion, the Government and the Bank would review the results and,
in light of their findings, determine whether this sub-component should be
converted to a credit program to be administered under BIMAS. A total of
18,000 farmers in the NIPP villages would receive an initial supply of seeds
and other inputs needed for home-gardens. In addition, community efforts
would be mobilized through the Lurah and village nutrition cadres in setting
up village gardens - for each village - on communally owned land. One exten-
sion worker would be available to about 1,800 farm families within his area,
but he would focus his efforts on groups of 10-15 progressive farmers, headed
by a control farmer. Each progressive farmer in turn would transmit the
advice received from the extension worker to a group of 7-10 neighboring
farmers. Each extension worker would be assigned to 16 farmer groups, visit-
ing each group once a fortnight on a fixed day and time. He would motivate
farmers to rapidly adopt improved methods so that their gardens would serve
as models to their neighbors. A part of the output of these gardens would be
marketed locally or purchased by NIPP management to be used for food supple-
mentation of the nutritionally vulnerable groups. At the time of full project
implementation the additional production of vegetables from these home/village
gardens would reach a value of about US$500,000 annually.
31.       The training of 10 new agricultural extension workers for the promo-
tion of home-gardens would be undertaken during the first year of the project.
By the beginning of the first operational year, supplies of seeds and cuttings,
fertilizer and insecticides would be available and promotion of home-gardens
would become an integral part of the NIPP activities right from their com-
mencement. In addition to tested seed varieties available in Indonesia, the
required vegetable seed would be imported under the proposed project (from
institutes such as the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center in
Taiwan) and tested during the first project year at the Bogor Agricultural
University before being used in NIPP areas. UNICEF is supporting a program
to develop demonstration seed gardens that could be replicated at Kabupaten
or sub-district levels. It would assist in the preparation of a curriculum
for seed garden managers and of an instruction manual for management of seed
gardens. The Government is discussing a possible project, financed bilater-
ally, for the establishment of large-scale seed production facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Action Program for On-Farm and Village Level Storage
32.       Information regarding village level storage of food is sparse.
While there are reports that losses may be as much as 25 percent, estimates
of losses are unreliable. Much of the grain crop is sold immediately after
harvest; storage of grain is normally "over the stove" in the houses and
would be for a short to medium period of time. Improved storage facilities
would not only reduce losses, but would also enable the farmer (debt permit-
ting) to retain the crop for sale at a higher price than at post-harvest
time.
33.       The proposed action within the project would include:
(a) a study by the FTDC of storage losses under farm and vil-
lage conditions;
(b) the design of prototypes to be developed in simulated village
conditions at FTDC;
(c) the trial of selected prototypes in village conditions for
technical effectiveness and response by the farmers;
(d) the review of results by a national seminar to give recom-
mendations on the policy and program for storage at farm
and village levels; and
(e) the training of extension workers in promotion of the
recommended program.
34.       The project provides financing for the establishment of small-
scale storage facilities, varying in size from 1 to 10 tons and comprising
a total capacity of about 300 tons.
35.       The IPB Food Technology group would carry out a baseline study
in the NIPP areas of the prevailing storage practices. This would include
the determination of losses incurred during storage by weight, volume and
nutrient content; the reaction of farmers to losses; and marketing practices.
Since most of the production is presently sold at harvest, the study would
find out the immediate cash requirements of farmers at harvest time to pay
debts; whether damaged grain is sold with or without price differentials; and
the price fluctuations during the year.
36.       In designing prototypes, the group would consider whether modifi-
cation of traditional methods would be more effective than the introduction
of new methods. The aim would be to develop a low-cost storage facility,
using local materials as far as possible, and capable of being built by
local labor. The methods for testing effectiveness would be devised so as
to ensure that they could provide a basis for monitoring. It is expected
that FTDC will have completed both the baseline study and the prototype
design at the end of the first project year.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
37.       The third stage would be the construction of five selected units
in NIPP villages. After these units have been tested for technical effec-
tiveness as well as evaluated on grounds of costs/benefits, additional
units will be constructed in other NIPP areas. The storage would be pro-
vided to the BUUD (local village cooperative) on a loan basis according
with the existing credit terms under the Food Storage Program. BUUD would
also manage the storage units. Following the development of a successful
design, the Ministry of Agriculture in consultation with the FTDC would
prepare a storage credit program to be provided through Bank Rakyat
for financing its wider adoption. Promotion of better storage methods
would involve training of agricultural extension staff in the technical
aspects of construction and in communication techniques to facilitate
acceptance and paticipation by the farmers.
38.       After completion of studies and trials, a seminar would be held
involving those responsible both at national and local levels to formulate
a policy and program for farm or village level storage. Bulk storage by
BULOG and intermediate storage at BUUD/KUD depots could be affected by
the storage methods used at farm or village levels. Close coordination of the
total storage system would be considered by the seminar. The recommendations
of the seminar, as approved by the Government of Indonesia and the Bank, would
be applied in selected villages of the NIPP areas. Details of the estimated
costs are given in Appendix 9.
Food Processing
39.       Although there have been a few isolated studies, little is known
about food processing and food handling in villages. In parallel with the
studies and trials for village level storage, work would be undertaken on
improvements in village level processing by the FTDC. In the NIPP areas,
a survey would be carried out to determine the current practices of food
handling, processing and preservation of the major food crops with particular
attention to the nutrient content and hygienic quality of the foods at various
stages. The commodities to be studied would include cereals such as rice,
maize and sorghum, legumes such as soybean, mung bean and groundnuts, and
root crops such as cassava and sweet potato. Attention would also be paid
to dark green leafy vegetables, fruits and other vegetables.
4O.       It is expected that the survey would reveal many possibilities for
bringing about improvements in the methods of handling, processing and preser-
vation of foods. Short-term experiments would be carried out by the FTDC
under simulated village conditions at Bogor. The results of the experiments
and trials would be presented to a seminar consisting of representatives
from the NIPP areas and from other components of the Nutrition Development
Project. Recommendations from the seminar would be converted into teaching
aids which would assist extension staff in promoting the adoption of improved
methods in the NIPP areas.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
Village Operations
41.       Villages are already divided into blocks of about 50 households
each. Each village would have one or more simple village nutrition centers
each serving approximately 600 households or 3-4,000 people. The village
nutrition center would be located in a village hall, school or other building
that could be suitably adapted and staffed by the village cadres. The project
provides for the cost of adaptation of, or of improvements to the buildings
selected and for the recruitment and training of part-time village cadres.
The village cadres, mostly women, would be recruited from among home economic
workers of the agricultural extension service, community, development workers
and members of the women's organization PKK. The village cadre would be
responsible for compiling a register of all children below the age of three
years, for carrying out and recording the results of monthly weighing of these
children and, on the basis of lack of or low weight gain, identifying children
in need of food supplement, which would be obtained from the local authority
(see also Annex 9 for details of information to be gathered). The village
cadre would visit the homes to demonstrate preparaton of the food and to
assist in the child's acceptance of the supplement and to provide information
on improved nutrition practices. Such visits would be repeated until the
feeding practice is established. The daily supplement would consist of 60 g
of the approved cereal-legume mixture and would be provided to a child until
an adequate weight gain is reached, normally a period oif 45 and 90 days. Based
on experience of rehabilitation centers in other countries, the expectation is
that the mother would feed the child properly thereafter.
42.       The monthly weighing would be used as an educational tool.  Most
mothers do not recognize that there is anything wrong with a child suffering
from mild or moderate PCM, since that is the norm. Monthly weighing provides
the opportunity to demonstrate that the child may not be doing well. Simi-
larily, the food supplement would be used as an educational tool to demonstrate
that locally available foods can bring about the desired change in well-being.
Once mothers recognize the need for change in the feeding of their children,
it would be expected that they adopt nutritional behavior change. However,
not all would be able to do so. Perhaps about 20 percent of those who have
been rehabilitated through supplementary feeding and health care may relapse
and require a second period of supplementation. In addition, there would be
those who would never be able to feed their children satisfactorily because of
handicaps or economic circumstances. This group represents a separate social
problem, which cannot be solved through this project.
43.       It is proposed that initially there would be one village cadre per
50 households. After a year's activity, it is believed that the intensity of
supervision may be reduced to one village cadre per 10CI households. There-
after the numbers could be reduced further, but as the cadres receive no



ANNEX 4
Page 13
honoraria, the number maintained does not affect the cost of continuation.
The provision of uniforms, certificates and inter-village competitions would
be used as incentives for village cadres.
44.       Pregnant women represent a different problem.  Although many are
affected by PCM, the most prevalent problem is nutritional anemia. In diets
lacking in animal protein, it would be unlikely that pregnant women would be
able to acquire sufficient iron from their normal diet. Every effort would be
made to encourage pregnant women to make use of the existing MCH services,
where iron tablets, provided by UNICEF, are readily available. The most
economically deprived section of the community may require supplementary feed-
ing. Provision has been made to supply food supplements to pregnant mothers
at risk. (These women will be identified from among low income families, as
mothers with at least one child having PCM). Roughly 10 percent of pregnant
women would receive a food supplement consisting of 120 g per day, for the
last trimester of pregnancy. Those who receive supplements when pregnant
would continue to receive supplements during the first 150 days of lactation;
in addition, mothers of underweight babies (below 2,500 g at birth) would be
provided with a supplement.
Organization and Management
45.       The Director-General of Community Health, Ministry of Health,
would have overall responsibility for the NIPP component. For the manage-
ment of NIPP, he would be assisted by a National Coordinator, whose staff
would include three Assistant Nutrition Program Officers (ANPO), one would be
specifically responsible for training; there would be three adminstrative
officers to assist.
46.       In each province where NIPP would operate, the Governor of the
Province would be responsible for the coordination and implementation of the
nutrition program. For planning purposes, the Governor would be advised by
the provincial planning authority (BAPPEDA); for coordination and implementa-
tion he would be advised by the Nutrition Improvement Coordinating Committee
(BPDG) established at provincial and Kabupaten levels under the Applied
Nutrition Program. The BPDG Executive Board is generally chaired by the
Inspector of Health of the Province. Members consist of senior governmental
representatives of agriculture, community development education, cooperatives,
water supply, fisheries, religious affairs, etc. and of non-governmental or-
ganizations such as scouts and the Community Development Board (PMD). The
Governor would be assisted by a Nutrition Program Officer (NPO) who, in
addition to general duties, would have specific responsibility for monitor-
ing and evaluation.
47.       At the Kabupaten level, the Bupati, the chief executive of the
Kabupaten, would be responsible for NIPP activities. He would be advised
by the BPDG and would be assisted by two ANPOs, one of whom would have
specific responsibility for training.



ANNEX 4
Page 14
48.       At the sub-district level, the Unit for Community Development
(UDIP) would be responsible for advising the Camat (the executive head of
the sub-district) on NIPP activities. He would be assisted by one ANPO and
three supporting staff; one would be the Training Officer, one would be
responsible for production and distribution of the food supplement and the
third would deal with routine finance, returns and reports.
49.       The Village Organization for Social Development under the chair-
manship of the Lurah (village headman) would be responsible for village
operations. There would be a Village Assistant Nutrition Program Officer
(VANPO). Where possible, this would be initially a BUITSI volunteer 1/ working
full-time, but failing that, VANPO, i.e. teacher, wouldt be employed part-time.
The VANPO would provide the local supervision for the village cadres, of
whom there would be one per 25 families during the first year of operations.
Appendix 2 shows the organizational structure of NIPP, Appendix 3 provides
details of the staff requirements by years and Appendix. 10 provides job
descriptions for the National Coordinator, NPO, ANPO and others.
Linkages with Other Project Components
50.       CRDN would be responsible for collecting and analyzing baseline
data and mid-term and final surveys, for providing scientific and technical
information for local production of food supplements and for advising on
plans of operation. CRDN would be involved in the scientific evaluation of
the NIPP component.
51.       Pending the establishment of FTDC, the IPB Food Technology Group
would develop improvements in storage and processing at the village level.
Later, FTDC's pilot extension service would operate in the NIPP areas,
identifying problems relating to local transport, storage preparation,
processing, preservation, packaging and distribution of food. Identified
problems would be studied by the FTDC and proposed solutions tested in
the NIPP areas. The FTDC would advise on and monitor the quality of the
food supplements.
52.       One of the two sub-districts selected for trial of the nutrition
education model proposed in the nutrition communication component, would be
in a NIPP area. The proposed simulation of mass media. communications for
nutrition messages would also be used to reinforce nutrition educational
activities of village cadres in NIPP areas.
1/   BUTSI is an Indonesian volunteer agency using graduates who work in
rural areas on approved projects.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
Training
53.       The ANPO at the Ministry wouLd be an oflicer with experience
in training and extension and would be responsible for organizing staff
training at national and provincial levels. Each Kabupaten would have
an ANPO responsible for organizing the courses for VANPO and village
cadres. The latter would be the specific responsibility of the Training
Officers at sub-district level. Appendix 7 outlines the training pro-
posals. The ANPO would be assisted by a training consultant.
54.       NPOs and ANPOs would be trained at the Nutrition Academy, Jakarta,
with the exception of those required for the first year, who may be trained
abroad. A two month training course would be planned and carried out by
the ANPO at the Ministry, assisted by the consultant and staff members of
the Academy, CRDN and FTDC.
55.       Training Officers would attend two month courses at provincial
headquarters, probably at Surabaya. These sources would be planned and
carried out by the ANPO at the Ministry, assisted by the consultant
and provincial staff of the Unit for Family Health and Nutrition (UPGK).
56.       VANPO would be trained at Kabupaten level.  Their one month
courses would be organized by the ANPO at the Kabupaten headquarters, but
the curriculum would be planned by the Ministry staff, assisted by the
consultant. Kabupaten staff of the Committee for Improvement of Family
Nutrition would be involved in the training.
57.       The way in which the component has been planned to expand would
ensure that there would be normally two training courses per year for village
cadres in each sub-district. The exception would be where villages are
abnormally large and in such circumstances extra training officers have
been included. The courses would be held at Health Centers or Agricultural
Extension Centers in the sub-districts. Even allowing for preparation, the
Training Officers would have ample time to conduct refresher courses and
in-service in each sub-district annually.
Technical Assistance
58.       Provision has been made for 7 man-years of consultancy.  Six
man-months would be required for a consultant on nutrition education to
advise on the program for NIPP areas and to prepare a simple manual. Ten
man-months would be required for a consultant on the training of Nutrition
Program Officers and Assistant Program Officers. The balance would be
available, if required, for problem solving resulting from operational
experience.



ANNEX 4
Page 16
Costs
59.       The costs of the project component are detailed in Appendix 8.
They are subject to modification based on the results of the mid-term review.
Monitoring and Evaluation
60.       Base-line data collection, mid-term and final evaluation will be
carried out by CRDN. The monitoring and evaluation unit, Ministry of
Health, will request collection of data by management according to specific
criteria and indicators. The unit will be responsible for designing the
methodology and the format for data collection, the frecquency of reporting
by field staff and the subsequent analysis of the data. The unit will convey
the results of analysis to project and component management and to CRDN.
Effective evaluation is the most crucial factor in this component (see Annex
9). Evaluation would focus on issues of operational efficiency of the distri-
bution system, intra-family consumption patterns and the effectiveness of the
identification scheme of target PCM cases.






ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PRO,JECT
PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF FOOD SUPIPLEMENT
NIPP
Provincial Level                     FTDC
Audit and In-
spection Unit
1 _                      Surveillance
NIPP                                        of
Kabupaten Level                            Quality Control
NIPP                         Supplement
Sub-District Level               Prodiction Unit 
NIPP          1                             _
I ~ ~      ~     ~~                  ~~ i  |   1  _   I ,r     I  _
Village Level    J                            IB- UUD/UDTUL
FDod Supply                 |      _
Village Household                    F     Supply
_   Monthly                 b            Village Nutrition Centre
Weighing                                         Selection
v~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Exchange:
Village                                 Village _
N utrition                              Nutrition                                 MCH
Centre                                  Centre                                   Centre                _
ru...mi r  rr      Fund and Food Supplement   --  -  -  Credit Package                     Other Links
World Bank- 16602






INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF NIPP
1 NP0O 
I ANPO                                                          NIPP Coordinator                                                        7NP
3 ANPO                                                                                                                                   7 NiPP
3 Admin.                                                                                                                                Provinces
S  1    L               |     ~~~~~~Governor 
1 NPO
1 ANPO                                                           Provincial BPGD                                                      1 iegency
2 Admin.                                                                                                                              per Province
Bupati
2 ANPO                                                          Kabupaten BPGD                                              About 15 Sub-Districts
2 Admin.                                                                                                                    per Kabupaten
Camat
Camat or jub-District
1 ANPO                                                             Sub-District                                                  About 15 villages
3 Admin.                                                      Nutrition Comnittee                                                per Sub-District
Village Chief
1 VANPO                                                      Village NIPP Committee
1 Admin..                                                                                                                            Size of Village
12 Cadres                                                                                                                           varies greatly
Village Nutrition Centre                                                                                                   lage Nut(rtion Centre
i~~~I
Block       Block        Block       Block        Block       Block        Block        Block       Block        Block       Block        Block
1           2            3           4            5           6            7           8            9           10           11           12
World Bank-16603






ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
Staff by Category and Year
National                      Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4
Nutrition Program Officer         1          1            1            1
Assistant NPO                     1          3            3            3
Adminstrative Officer             2          3            3            3
Provincial
NPO                               2          4            7            7
Assistant NPO                     2         4             7            7
Administrative Officer            4          8           14           14
Kabupaten
ANPO                              4         8            14          14
Administrative Officer            4          8           14          14
Sub-District
ANPO                                        6            18          37
Administrative Officer                      18          54          111
Village
VANPO                                      18           72          183
Administrative Officer                      18          72          183
Cadre                                     580        1,900        2,320



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIPP - Number of Beneficiaries
Number of                   Number of    Number of  Number of            Pregnant    Number of            Number of
Area                   Villages      Population   Children        PC!! Cases  Children Given    Wbmen         Pregnant Women    Lactating Women
_______  ______________  _______         Under3Under 3 Food S 1 nt                                  Sun_lemented{__     _
Bojonegoro         Year 2      9           27,360       3,033           855              855         1,233              243                231
Year 3    27           82,080       9,099         2,565             2,132         3,699             729                 693
Year 4    57          173,280      19,209         5,415             3,873         7,809           1,458               1,386
West Lombock       Year 2      9           42,903       6,192         1,737            1,737         1,935              387                 368
Year 3    27          160,947      12,438         6,507             5,639         6,705           1,161               1,104
Year 4    54          329,400      36,738        13,311             9,284       14,292            2,322               2,208
Central Javal/    Year 3       9           26,199       3,123           873              873         1,179              234                222
Year 4    27           78,597       9,369         2,619             2,183         3,537             702                 666
South SunatralV   Year 3       9           21,042       2,745           765              765           945              189                180
Year 4    27           63,126       8,235         2,295             1,922         2,835             567                 540
West Java /        Year 4      6           38,160       4,998         1,398            1,398         1,716              342                 325
Yogyakarta 1/      Year 4      6           30,918       3,018           846              846         1,392              276                 262
Bali 1/            Year 4      6           27,000       3,594         1,008            1,008         1,218              246                 234
Total iJ           Year 2    18            70,263       9,225         2,592            2,592         3,168              630                 599
Year 3    72          290,268      27,405        10,nO              91409        12,528           2,313               2,199
Year 4   183          740,481      85,161        26,892            20,514        32,799           5,913               5,621
Cumulative Total                                      1oo,ooo  0/ 40,194              32,515        48,495            8,856              8,419
a/ Villages to be chosen.  Estimates based on average aize of villages in the province.
LI The cumulative total of children under the age of three benefitted is around 100,000, taking into account
the children of ages below two in the year (2) and (3).



ANNEX 4
INDONSSIA NUTRITION DEVEOPNlt PROJECT                  Appendix 5
NIPP Initial Activities
J 7 MAIM JFJ A sIO i D J1  F M M IA   J J A  O IIN D
Action
Appointment of National Coordinator of NIPP
Recruitment of Nutrition Program
Officers(NPOs and ANPOs)
Establishment of Working Group on:
(a) Teaching Aids
(b) Baseline Data
(c) Training
(d) Food Supplements
Procurement of Vehicles
Recruitment of Nutrition Education Consultant
Preparation of Manuals on Nutrition Education
Testing of Manuals
Preparation and Testing of Teaching Aids
Preparation of Course for NPO/ANPO's
Consultant on Training
Training of NPO/LNPO's
Workshops for Provincial BPGD
Testing of Food Supplement                                               _
Production Eoquipment Ordered
Draw up Plans of Operations for NIPP for the
two Kabupatens
Approval of Plans of Operation by Government
Discussion on Baseline Data                                   m _
Identification or 35ale for  aselilne Data
Procure Equipment for Baseline Survey
Baseline Data Collection
Baseline Data Analysis



INDONESIA NUTRITION DBVELORDSNT PROJECT
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
ProJect Implementation Schedule
-22Z9                               1978         I- 1979                                 1960                 1981
Action                               J F H A M J J A S O N D  J F M A H J J A S O   N D IJ F M A M J J A S O N D  J F M A 1             J J A S    N DJI F H A M
1.  Preparation of plan of opera-
tion for initial 2 Kabupatens.
(For prelixinary activitiea
see Annex 4, Appendix 5.)
2. Approval of plan of operations
by Government.
3. Baseline survey of initial
Eabupatens
4. Midterm survey of initial
Kabupatens
5. Final survey and evaluation
of initial Kabupatens.
6. Selection of Kabupatens for
Year 2.
7.  Preparation of plane of
operations of the second
set of Kabupatens.
8. Approval of plans of
operations (7) above.
9. Reviow of NIPP.
10. Discussion end decision on
future direction of NIPP
11. Selection of now Kabupatens
for Year three.
12. Preparation of plans of
operations for third set
of Kabupatens
13. Approval of (12) above.
14s. Monitoring and Evaluation
15. Consultancies
Nutrition Educatio See
Consultants            Annex 4s
Nutrition Training   Appi. 6
Specialists       g
Short-ten consultants
on monitoring and
evaluation.



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIPP Training Courses
Number to    Number of
Trainees             Year      be Trained   Classes         Where Held        Who Responsible                Duration
NPO and ANPO                  1             16          1            Jakarta         ANPO(Training)N)R  HQ.
2            18           1            Nutrition      Assisted by Consultant          2 months
3            33           1            Academy
Training Officers             1              9          1            Provincial HQ  ANPO(Training)NOH  HQ.          1 month
2            18           1            Probably
3            23           1            Surabaya
VANPO                         1             18          2            Kabupaten HQ.  ANPO(Training)Kabupaten         1 month
2            54           4
3           ll            7
Village Cadres                1            580         18            Sub-District   Training Officers               1 month
2         1,900          54            HQ.
3         2,320         100
_   s_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-.3



ANNEX 4
Appendix 8
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Inte vention Pilot Project (NIFP), Including Agricultural Support
Detailed Table of Costs
US$ '000
Year 1       Lear 2     Year 3       Year 4      Total
1. Installation
a. Construction of village
nutrition centers 1/                   -            2           4            7         13
b. Equipment 2/
(i) Village nutrition centers                      4           9           18          31
(ii) Food supplementation              2           3           6           10          21
(iii) Anthropometric measure-          7          23          42                       72
ments
(iv) Nutrition education             18          18          27                       63
c. Vehicles 3/                           57           58          90                     205
Sub-Total  1.                     84         108         178           35         405
2.  T:raining 4/                             41          123         174           43        381
3.  Food Supplementation 5/                               26          85          196        307
L. Nutrition Education
a. Teaching aids                         32           38          75          75         220
b. Workshops and seminars                21           22          32                      75
Sub-Total 4.                      53          60         107           75         295
5. Health Support 6/
Irnmuunization                                        13          36          66         115
6. Agricultural Support
a. Home Gardens Extension                50           60         130         260         500
bi Improved local storage
and processing                        20           42          60          78         200
Sub-Total 6.                      70          102        190          338         700
7. Administration
a. Salary support                        11           35          87         170         303
b. Travel and per diem                   20           23          46           81        170
c. Other                                 15           25          46         105         191
Sub-Total 7.                      46           83        179          356         664
8.  Technical Assistance                     50          75          75                      200



ANNEX h
Appendix 8
Page 2
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Pro;ect (NIF E
Detailed Table of Costs
'US$ '000
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Total
9. Surveys and Evaluation 8/
a. Surveys                              18           28         37           47        130
b. Evaluation                                        20         30           40         90
Sub-Total 9                     18          48          67           87        220
TOTAL BASE COSTS               362         638       1,091       1,196       3,287
I/  The cost per village nutrition center is expected to be US$50. One village nutrition
center would be set up for a population of 3,000-4,000 on an. average.
2/  Cost of furniture and equipment per village nutrition center is expected to be US$125.
Anthropometric measurement equipment (US$286) per village. Food supplementation
equipment estimated to cost $550 per sub-district. Nutrition education requires
$9,000 per Kabupaten for overhead projectors, screens, tape recorders, video camera and
generator.
3/  1 sedan for headquarters
2 fourwheel drive per Kabupaten30 US$10,000
1 motorcycle per sub-district   @  US$   900
1 cycle per village              ( US$   100
1 motorcycle per province for
audit                            (  US$   900
4/ See Annex 4 Appendix 8 Page 4.
i/ Raw materials                    120 Rps. per kilo
Processing                      120 Rps. per kilo
Cost per child for 90 days       US$ 4.20
Cost per lactating mother           10.70
Cost per pregnant woman              6.30
Audit cost per regency              15.00
Quality control per regency         12.00
6/  Cost of immunization vaccines 9 $1 per child
7/ Details of salary support in Annex 4, App. 8, Page 3.
8/ Cost of sample survey based on $3.60 per sample



INDONESIA NUTMITION DEVELOFNMT PROJECT
NIPP Staff Development: Pattern and Cost
U3$ '000
Cost Per          _MNumber of NanA4onths                       Total Cost
Staff IIember                           MIonth US$     Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Ybar 4          US$
Nathional Level
NIPP? Co-ordinator                                 100             12         12         12          12            4,800
MMTPO 3 (Training; Finance & Procurement;Admin.o    75             30         36         36          36           10,350
MCaiiin. Staff 2 (Finance & Procurement; Admin.)    50             24         24          24         24            4,800
Provincial Level
NPO                                                  75             12         36          66         84           14,850
ADMO (Training, Finance and Audit)                   50             12         36          66         84            9,900
Administrative 2 (Finance and Audit; Admin.)         35             24         72         132        168           13,860
Kabuaten Level
71,171  T7lanagenment; Training)                     50             24         72         132        168          l1,BO0
Admin. 3 (Training; Fin. & Procurement; Admin.)      30             36        108         198        252           17,820
Sub-District Level
J;.IP0                                               30             36         72         216        444           23,040
Traxining OffZicer                                   30             36         72         216        444           23,040
Admin 2 (Food Supplement; Admin.)                    20                       144         432        888           29,280
Village Level
15                       216        864       2,196          49,140
Administrative                                   |   10                       216         864      2,196           32,760
Village Cadres (Non-m onetary inducements)I/                                                                       50,000_____________
$303,.440
1/ Includes iniforms, certificates, inter-village competitions.
(Dig D
1 W



INDONESIA NUTMITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIPP Costs of TraIning
US$ '000
Cost Per
Wdhere    Person         Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4
Trainee           Held       Per Course  No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.    Cost    No.   Cost                Total
a. Overseas
NPO/AI\NPO        Overseas   5,500          4  10,000  Conttd 12,000                                          22,000
b. Internal
I/UIPNPO         Nut. Acad.   350          12   4,200      18   6,300      33  11,550                         22,050
Training Officers Prov. H.Q.   125          9  1,125       18   2,250      23   2,875                          6, 250
VANPO            Sub-Dist.      50        18      900      54   2,700     111   5,55                          9,,150
Village Cadres   Sub-Dist.       40-50    580  25,200   1,900  92,880   2,320 128,000                        246,080
31,425         104,130         147,975                        283,530
Refresher Traininz
NPo                 Nut. Acad.    100                         16   1,600      34   3,400      67   6,700        11,700
Training Officers    Prov. H.Q.    40                          9     360      27   1,080      60   2,400         3,840
VAINPO              Sub. Dist.    15                          18     270      72   1,080     183   2,785          4,135
Village Cadres       Sub. Dist.     10                       500   5,000   2,000  20,000   3,120  31,200        56,200
7,230          25,560          43 ,085
Total Costs                                    41,425         123,360          173,535          43,085       381,405
H-
X- 
GoD



INDONESIU NUTRITION DEVELOPmENT PROJ1CT
NIPP Motivation Workshops
EAR 1          ,               2                     YEAR -3
Cost per
No. of Person    No. of  No. of   Cost   No. of  No. of   Cost    No. of   No. of   Cost   Total Costs
Days   per day   Areas   People  US$    Areas   People  US$            Areas   People   US$         us$
National        5    $48.20        1        20    4,,820      _        _       _         _        _       _
Provincial      7      25.80       2        40     7,224      2       40     7,224       3       60    10,836
Xabupaten       7      17.20       2        40    4,816       2       40     4,816       3       60      7,224
Sub-District    7       5.20       6       120    -4,368    12       240     8.7        19      380    13.832
21,228                   20,776                      31,892   7L3896
VD



ANNEX 4
Appendix 9
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
Improved Local Storage and Processing: Cost: Estimates
(US$)
Year
1           2            3          4           Total
Storage
Field study by food
technology group       5,000                                           5,000
Development of proto-
types                  5,000                                           5,000
Trial of selected
prototypes                       20,000                               20,000
Seminar and policy
decisions                         2,000                                2,000
Extension program                                50 ?_    68,000      118,000
Sub-Total        10,000     22,000        50,000    68,000      150,000
Processing
Survey and preparation
field work            10,000                                          10,000
Laboratory experi-
ments and trials                  12,500                              12,500
Seminar and policy/
program                           2,000                                2,000
Extension program                    5,500       10,0(0    10,000       25,500
Sub-Total       10,000     20,000        10,000    10,000       50,000
Total           20,000     42,000        60,000    78,000      200,000



ANNEX 4
Appendix 10
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project
Job Description and Qualifications
National Coordinator for NIPP
Job Description
1.        The National Coordinator would be responsible to the Project
Director for:
(a) coordinating all sub-components of NIPP and being the
normal channel of communication between the Executive
Secretary and field staff;
(b) administering the NIPP, including office and personnel
management, accounting and procurement;
(c) transferring funds on a timely basis for the sub-components
activities;
(d) arranging for the physical control and checking of project
stores;
(e) arranging for the control of transport;
(f) arranging for staff training through the ANPO in charge
of training;
(g) supervising the establishment of village nutrition centers;
(h) arranging for the processing, packaging, distribution and
accounting for supplementary foods;
(i) liaison with CRDN on base-line data collection; and
(j) reporting progress through regular written reports.
Qualifications
2.        Experience in successful management would be the main criterion;
proven administrative ability at least at provincial level and experience in
dealing with government departments and procedures would be essential; a
sound basic knowledge of nutrition would be desirable.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 10
Page 2
Nutrition Program Officer (Provincial)
Job Description
3.        The NPO would be responsible to the Governor of the Province for:
(a) coordinating NIPP activities within the province;
(b) being the channel of communication between the National
Coordinator for NIPP and field staff;
(c) being the project representative on the UPKG; provincial
committee;
(d) arranging for the monitoring of progress, as agreed with
CRDN and the monitoring and evaluation unit in the Ministry
of Health and for evaluating the data to assess results achieved
by the differences between actual and planned action, unanticipated
problems, and for instigating immediate action to deal with
them;
(e) supervising the work of the audit unit in checking on supple-
mentary food production, distribution and utilization and on
accounting for the food at all stages; and
(f) reporting to the Governor and to the NPO Headquarters as required.
Qualifications
4.        Experience in management and supervision would be the main require-
ment, proven administrative ability and experience at provincial level of
dealing with government departments and procedures would be essential.
Ability to collaborate harmoniously with colleagues and facility in pre-
senting proposals to those in authority or to committees would be important.
A basic knowledge of nutrition would be desired.
Assistant Nutrition Program Officer (Training) Headquarters
5.        ANPO (Training) would be responsible to the National Coordinator
for:



ANNEX 4
Appendix 10
Page 3
(a) coordinating all training activities within the component;
(b) preparing with assistance from a training consultant: the
curricula for national courses for NPO and ANPO, provincial
courses for Training Officers, and Kabupaten courses for VANPO;
(c) organizing and running courses, with assistance from a
training consultant, for NPO and ANPO and for Training
Officers;
(d) arranging for the production of teaching aids for training
courses; and
(e) reporting progress on training as reqiured.
6.        High level experience in training and extension would be the main
criterion, with experience of organizing and running courses at national
level. A sound knowledge of applied nutrition would be essential.
Assistant Nutrition Program Officer (Kabupaten)
Job Description
7.        The ANPO (Kabupaten) would report to the Bupati (Chief Executive)
of the Kabupaten and be responsible for:
(a) administration of the sub-component within the Kabupaten;
(b) control of component expenditure;
(c) control and security of project stores;
(d) control of transport;
(e) arrangements for adaptation or construction of village
nutrition centers;
(f) direction of ANPO (sub-district), VANPO and village cadres;
(g) organization of the processing, packaging, distributing and
accounting systems for the supplementary foods;
(h) representing the NIPP component on the Kabupaten BPDG;
(i) liaison with health, agriculture, cooperatives and
marketing, education and water authorities; and
(j) reporting on progress as required.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 10
Page 4
Qualifications
8.        Experience of successful management at Kabupaten level would be the
main criterion, with proven ability in handling a large staff and in collab-
orating with colleagues. A basic knowledge of nutrition would be desired.
Assistant Nutrition Program Officer (Kabupaten/Training)
Job Description
9.        The ANPO (Kabupaten/Training) would be responsible to the Bupati
for:
(a) coordinating all nutrition training within the Kabupaten,
as directed by the ANPO (training headquarters);;
(b) organizing and running the courses for VANPO;
(c) supervising the courses run by training officers for
the village cadres;
(d) organizing in-service and refresher courses as required;
(e) collaborating with the ANPO (Kabupaten) in running seminars
and workshops for key personnel at Kabupaten and sub-district
levels; and
(f) reporting on progress in training as required.
Qualifications
10.       Experience in training and extension would be essential and a
sound knowledge of nutrition desired.
Nutrition Education Consultant
Job Description
11.       The nutrition education consultant would advise the Project Director
and assist the National and Provincial NPO in:
(a) identifying the content or topics for appropriate nutrition
education;



ANNEX 4
Appendix 10
Page 5
(b) formulating the messages relevant to the content or topics;
(c) designing a nutrition education program based on these
messages;
(d) preparing teaching aids to support the program;
(e) selecting equipment suitable for the program;
(f) preparing (i) a simple manual on nutrition education suitable
for contact personnel and (ii) a manual suitable for supervisory
personnel;
(g) developing the organization of nutrition education using all
available media and methods;
(h) coordination with the Center for Manpower and Training,
Ministry of Health;
(i) developing an evaluation system for nutrition education;
(j) integrating the program of the NIPP areas with the other
nutrition education programs of the Government of Indonesia; and
(k) other appropriate tasks as required by the Director General of
Community Health.
Qualifications
12.       The nutrition education consultant would be familiar with the tech-
niques and content of nutrition education suitable for a program in a develop-
ing country, where a proportion of the adults are illiterate, the socio-
economic level is low and the available, low-priced foods are limited. The
specialist would have experience in how to identify motivating factors in the
community and be able to use this knowledge in defining a nutrition education
program. The specialist should have the ability to communicate effectively
with others at a variety of educational levels.
Nutrition Training Specialist
13.       The Nutrition Training Specialist would advise the Project Director
and assist the ANPO (Training) to:
(a) prepare the curriculum for a training course iEor NPO and ANPO
based on two major aspects: (i) planning and rnanagement and
(ii) basic nutritional knowledge;



ANNEX 4
Appendix 10
Page 6
(b)  prepare or arrange for the necessary teaching aids for the
course;
(c) assist the Ministry of Health in the preparatoiry arrangements
for the course;
(d) establish good working arrangements with all in1volved in the
nutrition project; especially in the NIPP component;
(e) prepare detailed notes for the course as a guide to counter-
parts;
(f) conduct the first three month course;
(g) review the achievement of the course and adjust the curriculum
and subject matter as necessary;
(h) conduct the second three-month course;
(i) advise on the training of Village Assistant Program Officers
(VANPOs) and village cadres;
(j) review the achievement of the VANPO and village cadre courses and
advise on adjustments required; and
(k) undertake other appropriate tasks as required by the Director
General of Community Health.
Qualifications
14.       The nutrition training specialist would be familiar with planning
and implementing successful nutrition programs in developing countries,
and with the techniques of teaching such planning and implementation. The
specialist would have experience of instructing and guiding counterparts
so that those engaged on the NIPP senior training program would be capable
of running the NPO/ANPO course in the third year.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT_
Anemla Prevention and Control Pilot Proect -_P'antations
'intro auction
1.        The adult human body contains 3-4 g of iron, of which more than
two-thirds is in haemoglobin, the pigment of the red blood cells. The
daily iron loss of an adult man weighing 65 kg is about 0.9 mg. Absorption
of iron takes place in the stomach and through the small intestine. While
about 30 percent of iron in meat is absorbed, only about 10 percent of the
iron present in cereals, vegetables and pulses is absor'bed. (Intake of
vitamin C could facilitate a higher absorption of ingested iron.)
2.        Iron deficiency anemia occurs when losses of iron from the body
are not balanced by absorption of sufficient iron to compensate for both
normal and abnormal losses. Lack of iron is reflected by a deficiency
of haemoglobin.  This affects physical capacity by reducing the availability
of oxygen to the tissues. The combination of a poor dietary intake of iron
and bleeding from hookworm infestation are the most common causes of iron-
deficiency anemia in Indonesia.
Research on Nutritional Anemia and Productivity
3.        A 1973 study 1/ of a sample of male construction workers found
anemia in 52 percent of workers in Rentang, 45 percent in DAlardarma and 28
percent in Halim. The level of anemia in adult males in Indonesia is the
highest ever recorded under non-famine conditions for this disease. Hookworm
infestation was found in 85 percent of samples at all sites. It was concluded
that there was a high incidence of nutritional anemia due to poor utilization
of iron in the diet and iron loss from bookworm infestation. There was also
sufficient evidence that anemia interferes significantly with workers' physical
ensurance.
4.        A follow-up study 2/ was undertaken in 1974, to compare productivity
levels of anemic and non-anemic workers. A sample of 300 workers were given
1/   D. Karyadi and S. S. Basta, Nutrition and 'Health of' Indonesian Construc-
tion Workers: Endurance and Anemia. IBRD Staff Working Paper No. 152,
1973.
2/   S. S. Basta and A. Churchill, Iron Deficiency Anemia and the Productiv-
ity of Adult Males in Indonesia, IBRD Staff Working Paper No. 175, 1974.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
a pill daily; some received a pill containing 100 mg elemental iron and
others a placebo. Productivity before and after treatment was measured by
the weight of latex tapped per day by workmen or the tcotal area excavated
by weeders in a five-hour day. The output of anemic tappers before treat-
ment was 19 percent below that of non-anemic tappers. After iron treatment,
output of anemic workers reached the level of the non-anemic tappers. Those
anemic tappers who received a placebo remained about 15 percent below the
productivity of their counterparts treated with iron. Among weeders, the
productivity of anemic workers was about 25 percent below that of non-anemic
workers.  The former anemics whose haemoglobin levels rose as a result of
treatment also cultivated a significanitly (up to 25 percent) larger area
than the anemic groups whose haemoglobin levels did nol: rise. Treatment of
anemic workers with daily pills containing iron broughi: about an increase in
productivity of about 20 percent.
5.        The two studies concluded that attempts to correct iron deficiency
of anemic workers would lead to substantial increases in productivity. The
costs of iron supplementation per man-year were less than a dollar, which
indicates best the very high benefit-cost ratio.
6.        If ferrous sulphate pills could be continually given, the anemia
could be cured. In actual practice, however, a problem occurs after about 60
days of treatment, when nausea appears as a side-effect and the Indonesian
experts have therefore been searching for alternative solutions. One solution
suggested has been the fortification of salt with iron.
Fortification of Salt
7.        Unlike the addition of vitamins, the fortification of salt with iron
presents certain technical difficulties. Chief among these difficulties are
that iron compounds, which are even slightly soluble in water, affect fortified
Eoods by causing changes in color, odor, and cooking quality. Insoluble iron
compounds are absorbed much less readily than soluble iron compounds. One of
the successful methods 1/ has been to fortify salt wit:h ferric orthophosphate,
a stable iron compound, and to use sodium bisulphate t:o promote absorption. So
far, this has been found to be satisfactory although costs are higher than for
ferrous sulphate. Pilot tests are underway in field conditions in India util-
izing iron-fortified salt. At a level of 1,000 parts per million, fortifica-
tion of salt with iron orthophosphate would provide 1 mg iron per gram of salt.
Estimates of salt intake range between 2 kgs per capiita per year and 4 kgs per
1/   Fortification of Common Salt with Iron:  Effect of Chemical Additives on
Stability and Bioavailability. Narasinhga Rao, B.S. and Vijayasarathy.
"The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition", December 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
capita per year -- a mean of about 8 grams per capita per day 1/.  Given
an absorption rate of 4 percent, salt fortified with about 1,500 ppm would
provide about 0.5 mg of additional absorbed iron per day, which would be
over half the recommended iron allowance for adult males 2/.
Component Description and Objectives
8.        Since the relationship between treatment of nutritional anemia
and productivity has been revealed (see paras. 3 to 5 above), the main
objective of this component is to test:
(a) the logistical feasibility of establishing a delivery system
for iron supplementation, and
(b) the economic implications on output and employment.
9.        Three pilot areas would be selected:  one in East Java consisting
of two government owned plantations, each with about 500 workers, one
plantation with health services and the other without such services; one
government plantation in North Sumatra, with about 1,000 workers and health
services. The inclusion of 10 small, privately owned plantations each employ-
ing about 100 workers in South Sulawesi and West Sumatra is planned at a later
stage, provided the Directorate General of Manpower Protection and Care of the
Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives can establish a delivery
and health system in these localities.
10.       The project provides financing for:
(a) the supply of iron pills to cure nutritional anemia among
plantation workers;
(b)  medication and provision of shoes for tackling the problem of
hookworm infection;
(c) imports of iron fortified salt in the initial stage, to be
followed by local salt fortification as needed for the project;
(d) arrangements for delivery of iron fortified salt to workers to
ensure that an adequate iron level is maintained; and
(e) monitoring and evaluation.
1/   Estimates of salt consumption derived.
2/   Handbook of Human Nutrition Requirements.  FAO Nutrition Studies No. 28:
WHO Monograph Series No. 61, 1974.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
11.       The anemic laborers would be provided with a daily pill containing
70 mg iron in the form of ferrous sulphate. These piLls would be distributed
by paramedical staff where there are health facilities and by junior staff
of the management or owners in other instances. The dlistribution staff would
be required to observe the taking of the pill. The therapy would be given
for about 60 days after which haemoglobin levels should become normal. The
hypothesis is that once haemoglobin levels are normal they can be maintained
at a normal level through adequate iron intake in the diet. The Ministry of
Health would procure internationally iron fortified salt while the National
Institute of Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health (NILHOH) will make
arrangements for its distribution to the selected estate laborers and their
families. The absorbable iron available in fortified salt (0.5 mg per person
per day) is believed to be a sufficient addition to the present diet to
maintain the required iron intake.
12.       The daily loss of blood due to hookworms may amount to 3 millimeters
per 100 worms. Where infestation is heavy the loss can be a major factor
in nutritional anemia. At the beginning of the period of iron therapy,
anti-helminthics would be used to deal with the hookworm infestation. Simul-
taneously, action would be taken to prevent reinfestation by the provision
of boots, latrines and education in personal hygiene.
13.       Through nutrition education, efforts would be made to improve
the iron content of diets and the intake of vitamin C which ensures a better
iron absorption.  The best food sources of iron are meat, fish, poultry and
eggs, all consumed in small quantities because of cost. The second best
sources are green leafy vegetables, soybeans, other legumes, potatoes and
whole grain cereals (polished rice has a low iron content). Since most plant-
ation workers are landless, green leafy vegetables are not consumed in suffi-
cient quantities. Plantation management would, therefore, provide small
plots of plantation land for laborers to enable them to grow their own vege-
tables.
14.       The scientific and technical design of the project would be the
responsibility of the CRDN and the NILHOH, while the field work would be
carried out by the Regional Institution of Industrial Hygiene and Occupational
Health (RILHOH). The latter two institutes are under the Directorate General
of Manpower Protection and Care of the Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration
and Cooperatives. Preliminary visits to plantation areas would be undertaken
by CRDN and NILHOH to brief management and workers, and to finalize plans of
operation. These visits would be followed by a base-Line data survey, which
would include determination of haemoglobin in the blood and infection.
Simultaneously, data would be collected on the productivity levels of the
workers according to specified objective criteria.
Evaluation
15.       The final evaluation, which will be undertaken by NILHOH in coop-
eration with CRDN, would include medical tests (haemoglobin and hookworm
infection) which are essential for determining the effectiveness of the action



ANNEX 5
Page 5
taken. Initially, the iron supplementation would be given on a grant basis,
with an average annual cost of less than US$1 per person. If, as is expected,
the increased productivity of anemic workers would be significantly greater in
value than the cost of iron supplementation and helminthic suppression, then
a general application of the measures would be initiated by government regu-
lations with the individual estates bearing the cost. Should this situation
arise, NILHOH would have to be strengthened in order to initiate, implement
and monitor a national program. Provision has been made for such possible
action.
Management
16.       The coordinator for NIPP, in the Minitry of Health, would have
administrative responsibility for the component. CRDN would be responsible
for the sound scientific basis for action. NILHOH would be responsible for
the operational action, through delegation to RILHOHs, each of which would
work in close collaboration with the Directorate General of Plantations,
Ministry of Agriculture.
Costs
17.       The estimated cost of the component would be $174,000.  Details of
cost are given in Appendix 1.



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs of Anemia Prevention and Control Pilot Pro,iect - Plantations
us$ 1000
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Local        Foreign        Tob1E
Non-Construction
1. Equipment
a. Vehicles                          15                                                    9             6             15
b. Equipment for biochemical
Determinations               10                                                    3             7             10
2. Operating Costs
a. Project Preparation               2.8                                                   2.8                         2.8
b. Base-line Data                    4            22                                     26                           26
c. Iron Therapy                                  10                                       5             5             10
d. Iron Salt Supplementation                      6             6                         6             6             12
e. Ant i-helminthic Treatment                      7            3                         5             5             10
f. Provision of Protective Boots                  22.5                                   22.5                         22.5
g. Construction of Latrines                        6            6                        12                           12
h. Othler                            2.2           0,           1                         3.7                          3.7
3.  Evaluation                                                     12             8          20                           20
4. Extension to Other Plantations                                                30          30                           30
34.0         74.0          28.0         38.0        145.0          29,0          17b.O
CDg
x
P 



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change
1.        The Presidential Instruction (INPRES) of September 1974 requires
improvement in the variety, quantity and nutritional quality of foods consumed
by all levels of society in all regions of Indonesia, but this will depend on
changing food behavior in order to optimize the use of available food supplies.
The ANP Evaluation Study 1973 1/ found that even in the better off families
41 percent were deficient in both protein and calorie intake. This finding
gives an indication of the lack of knowledge about the use of available food.
Food habits relating to choice of foods, methods of preparing and cooking
foods, distribution of foods within the family, weaning practices and feeding
the sick child are likely to be responsible for the gap between food avail-
ability and consumption.
2.        Earlier attempts to improve utilization of available foods through
nutrition education concentrated on five food groups: (a) carbohydrates;
(b) vegetables; (c) fruits; (d) animal protein and (e) dairy products.
These education efforts were not directed to the poor who in any case would
have found animal protein or dairy products well beyond their means. In the
absence of baseline data and systematic evaluation methods, the possible
impact of the education programs could never be determined. A detailed study
of food habits in Indonesia has shown how cultural taboos affect food consump-
tion patterns and lead to adverse nutritional results. Apart from income
considerations, behavioral constraints are some of the critical factors in
bringing about improvement in nutritional status.
3.        The proposed component on nutrition communication would determine
the degree to which behavioral constraints can be modified and what methods
would be most effective, taking into account the costs. Knowledge of ex-
isting food habits, patterns and beliefs would form an essential base from
which to plan and measure desirable change. Such data would be used, in
conjunction with information on attitudes and knowledge as a baseline for
the proposed action. In three selected sub-districts, data would be col-
lected on quality of food consumption as well as on behavioral aspects.
Following an assessment of the nutritional problems and their likely causes,
suitable educational methods would be devised and available media and agency
activities would be coordinated to launch a practical and integrated approach
to nutrition education. The experience gained in these three selected areas
would assist the Government in the preparation of a national nutrition educa-
tion campaign to be part of the national nutrition program which is expected
to be implemented during the Third Development Plan.
1/   An evaluation study of the results of the Applied Nutrition Program
1963-73, was carried out by Prof. Sayogyo. The study included a
food consumption survey of 920 hosueholds from villages where the
ANP program has been applied intensively.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Component Objective and Activities
4.        The general objective would be to develop measures to bring about
desirable changes in nutrition behavior in three selected areas for replica-
tion on a national scale, by identifying the most criLtical behavioral con-
straints. Among the specific activities to be undertaken to achieve this
objective would be to:
(a) decide on the know-how and skills required to overcome
behavioral problems and implement remedial measures;
(b)  select the content of nutritional messages, to design
their form, select the appropriate media mix to be used
and the methods of operation;
(c)  train village cadres as the contact personnel, sub-
district staff to supervise them and technicians to
handle the communications equipment;
(d)  hold seminars at national and provincial levels to make
decision makers aware of the education program;
(e) hold workshops at Kabupaten, sub-district and village
levels to explain the knowledge and skills required and
the methods to be used;
(f) carry out the planned program in each selected village,
with continuous monitoring, feedback and adaptation, if
required;
(g) evaluate the changes in behavior relating to food and
nutrition;
(h) identify the contribution of mass media and prepare and
test material potentially useful for wider application; and
(i) develop feasible and replicable techniques in nutrition educa-
tion and communication, for subsequent inclusion in the national
nutrition plan.
5.        The national strategy for regional development involves concentra-
tion of inputs from various sectors in the same community. During the first
year of the Second Five-Year Development Plan, 148 sub-districts were selected
as Units for Community Development (UDKP), three of which would be chosen as
the operational areas for this component, one of which would be in a NIPP area.
The designated component director, in collaboration with the local authorities,
selected three UDKP sub-districts. In Central Java, the selected area is sit-
uated on a fertile area of the Merapi volcano, where the leadership is strongly
influenced by the local Islamic Training Center. The sub-district in Yogyakarta



ANNEX 6
Page 3
is in a densely populated area, whereas the site in South Sumatra has a popu-
lation, scattered in clusters over a wide geographic area. The three areas
comprise 36 villages with about 110,000 direct beneficiaries.
6.        Baseline information would be established from a random sample of
300 families in each area, describing food habits of the population before
the beginning of the education program to be used for planning the education
program and later for the evaluation of its effectiveness. The CRDN would be
responsible for the baseline survey and evaluation, using the same parameters
as for evaluation of other components. A consultant 1/ would assist CRDN to
design the content and methodology for the collection of information on food
habits.
7.        A communications expert would decide on the basis of available
information (food habits and nutritional problems), the form of the message,
the media mix to be used, the timing of the communication and the preparation
of any teaching aids to support or reinforce the message impact. All messages
would be tested with a sample from the selected communities, to ensure that
the message would be interpreted and understood as intended.
8.        The messages would be communicated through village cadres, the
utilization of audio-visual equipment and seminars. The messages would be
simple and would be based on the research findings at CRDN, FTDC, and other
research centers. Working manuals and suitable teaching materials would be
developed, pretested and produced. These materials would be in accordance
with the particular food and nutrition problems, cultural conditions, educa-
tional standards, and resources of the specific areas where they would be
used.
9.        Village cadres would engage in inter-personal communication with
members of the communities. They would be individuals, mostly women, se-
lected by the village people from among members of voluntary organizations
(PKK), or community development workers, paramedical personnel or informal
leaders. One cadre would be responsible for 50 households, so that on an
average each village would have 12 cadres. Sub-district supervisors would
be appointed on the basis of one supervisor for three villages. Since the
effectiveness of the cadres would depend on the on-job training and the
quality of supervision received, sub-district supervisors would be trained
to provide the necessary supervision. The supervisor would be responsible
for training and supervising the village cadres, who would receive one
month's initial training at the sub-district health center. The training
of all cadres in a sub-district would require four months, with one course
at a time using the facilities.
1/ See Appendix 4 for job description.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
10.       After the initial training of cadres is completed, the supervisors
would be responsible for organizing periodic meetings of cadres as a means to
feedback information and as an opportunity to provide advice and encouragement
to the cadres.
11.       Interpersonal communication would be supplemented and complemented in
the villages by various methods and media. Each sub-district would be provided
with communications equipment: projectors, screens, tape-recorders, camera and
video-tape. Two technicians for each sub-district would be trained to use and
maintain the equipment. In particular they would be trained in using the
video-tape and tape recorders to simulate television and radio broadcasting.
Through feedback from the use of this equipment, "soft--ware" would be devel-
oped for mass media use in the national nutrition program.
12.       Technical assistance would be provided for training technicians in
the use and maintenance of equipment and in planning the development of mass
media communications. It is important that development of "soft-ware" for
mass media should be undertaken as part of this component so as to prepare
for the expected expansion of community based television and radio broadcast-
ing being carried out currently and to be enhanced by the communication satel-
lite already launched. 1/ Close liaison with the Office of Educational Devel-
opment, Ministry of Education, would ensure that the nutrition "soft-ware"
would be incorporated in the overall program of mass communication.
13.       The component includes a series of seminars for key personnel and
working level staff in the ministries and agencies involved in the nutri-
tion development project. At national and provincial levels, seminars of
one day's duration would be held for high level key staff to create awareness
of the project and to solicit their support for the project activities.  Short
seminars would also be held at the end of the project period to report on
results and to seek expansion to a national program. At Kabupaten and sub-
district levels, workshops of longer duration would deal with details of the
various activities.
1/   There is a main TV station in Jakarta, and two regional transmitters
catering to 360,000 TV viewers, and three regional stations. The Govern-
ment has provided 600 TV sets at district level, and in 1976, is expected
to distribute another 6,000. Radio sets are owned by 35 percent but
listened to by 70 percent of the population.   An expansion of all main
media services with TV and radio covering the whole of Indonesia is
planned for 1976. There is a Government Film Production Center, which
produces weekly national newsreels, and around twelve half-hour films a
year. The Ministry of Information has a number of mobile cinemas that
show films to the villages every three months.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Organization and Administration
14.       The Director in charge of the component would be the Chairman of
the Center for Manpower Training, Ministry of Health, who would work on
a part-time basis. The Director would be assisted by four full-time staff,
two of whom would be nutritionists and the others a health educator and
an administrator. One would be responsible for data collection, analysis
and interpretation, and development and evaluation of nutrition messages.
The second would undertake selection of field staff, their training and
supervision. The third would organize seminars and workshops and be re-
sponsible for feedback and reports. As and when required, the Director
of this component would seek consultant assistance from the Project Director.
15.       A member of the Provincial Committee for Better Family Nutrition
would be appointed as the provincial supervisor of this component. He would
keep the committee informed of component activities and would receive advice
from the committee. There will also be part-time supervisors at Kabupaten
and village levels. The Kabupaten supervisor would be assisted by two part-
time officers, one of whom would have special responsibility for training and
the other for personnel, finance and procurement. The organization chart is
in Appendix 1.
Technical Assistance
16.       The component would provide 12 man-months of technical assistance
for expatriate advisors and 35 man-months for local advisors and consultants.
The experts would be required for the baseline data collection and evaluation
of behavioral change; the form and design of the messages, the selection of
media, the testing of material and evaluation of impact; the development of
nutrition components in the curricula for schools, colleges and courses; and
the planning of the educational and communications component for a national
nutrition program. Fellowships would be provided to train specialists in
communication techniques for nutrition education.
Costs
17.       The total costs amount to $1,028,000 over a four-year period.
Appendix 2 provides a statement of the expenditure; Appendix 3 provides
details of salary support.
Monitoring and Evaluation
18.       The Director of the component would be responsible for monitoring
project progress and would be advised of requirements by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit at the Project headquarters. Evaluation is the essense of
the component. CRDN would be responsible for baseline data and for subse-
quent surveys to evaluate changes in nutrition behavior.



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF NUTRITION COMMUNICATION AND BEHAVIORAL CHANGE
I'~~~~~~~ 
Component
Director
Data Collection                          Training                                                                     Seminars                               Personnel
Message Definition                       Supervision                                                                   Workshops                               Finance
Reports                             Procurement
| Provicial
Supervisor
Supervisor
Training and Supervision                                                     Financial/Procurement
Supervisor                       Supervisor                                                            Supervisor                         Supervisor
ICadres
VC  VC  VC  VC VC                           12 VilCagres
World Bank-16604






INDONEIA NUTRITION  EVELOPMT PROJ=CT
Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change -JBxpenditures
US7 '000
Tear 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4          Local   Foreign   Total
1.  Eoisn
(a)  Vehioles                             10       40                                20       30        50
(b)  Special Equipment                    15       20                                 8       27        35
Sub-Total 1                               25       60                                28       57        85
2. Technical Assistance
a  Advisors                               6       41        47       12             36       70       106
b    Fellowships                         10       10                                         20        20
Sub-Total 2                               16       51       147       12             36       90       126
3. Incremental Doerating Costs
(a)  Salaries                             25       35        45       45           150                150
(b)  Mass Media                           20       25        25       30             80       20       100
(c)  Educational Material                 50       50        50       50            150       50       200
(d)  Baseline Survey/Evaluation            5        5         5        7             22                 22
(e)  Training                             15       30        30       20             95                 95
(f)  Travel and Per Diem                  20       20        30       30           100                100
(g) Other E^penses                        20       30       50        50           150                150
Sub-Total 3                              155      195       235      232            7147      70      817
Total Base Costs                         196      306       282      244,           811      217    1,028



AREX 6
Appendix 3
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Commnication and Beharioral(Cbanga-Salary S&ii,ort
Parb-time   Rate                   Year
or       Per
Full-time   I4onth        1      2      3      4             Total
Project Director        P.T.       75         900    900    900    900              3,600
HQ Staff 4 Officers     F.T.      250      12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000             48.,000
Provincial Agent 3      P.T.       48       1,152  1,728  1,728  1,728              6,336
Kabupaten Agent 3       P.T.       30          720  1,080  1,080  1,080             3,960
Kabupaten Staff; 3x2    P.T.       250 ,200  1,800  1,800  1,800                    6,600
Sub-District;3 x 5      F.T.       30       3,600  5,o400  5,4o00  5,4oo           19,800
Ancillary Staff
National 2              P.T.       20         480    480    480    480              1,920
Provincial 1            P.T.       15         120    180    180    180                660
Kabupaten 1             P.T.       10           80    120    120    120               440
Sub-District 2          P. T.       8          64      96     96     96               352
Technicians 3 x 2       F.T.      200             14,400 14,400 14,400             43,200
Total                         _        20,316 38,184 38, 184 38,184           134,868



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page I
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultant Job Description
1.   Behavioral Scientist/Nutrition Education Consultant
To provide advice to and assist the Director of the component on
the following:
a.   define the data to be collected relating to food habits,
patterns and beliefs;
b.   prepare the questionnaires in a form which facilitates
analysis;
c.   train the field staff in data collection;
d.   anlyze and interpret the results;
e.   advise on the approaches to be used in educat:ional
process and in conveying nutrition messages; and
f.   advise on the methods for evaluation of the component.
2.   Communications Specialist
To provide advice to and assist the Director of the component in
the following:
a.   development of an overall strategy of communications in
nutrition information and education, using both existing
and innovative techniques and materials;
b.   preparation of an operational plan for the communications
component of the project;
c.   coordination of communications program in nutrition
between the IMinistry of Health, Ministry of Education,
Information, Agriculture, etc.;
d.   integration of communications techniques in the
training of nutritionists, assistant nutritionists and
others involved in nutrition activities;
e.   design of training programs in nutrition education in
collaboration with behavioral scientists/educators;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 2
f.   preparation and execution of studies designed to test
the effectivess of some innovative mass media techniques
and materials; and
g.   evaluation of the communications component of the
project.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Manpower Training
Training for Nutritionists
1.        The Academy of Nutrition is the main institution engaged in
training nutritionists and dieticians 1/. Students start the course after
12 years basic education and graduate with a B.S. at the end of 3 years.
Most of the graduates are employed by the Ministry of Health as community
nutritionists in provinces and Kabupatens or as dietitians in the larger
hospitals. Other institutions that offer nutrition courses as a major subject
are the Teachers Colleges, but the output from these colleges is low due to
limited teaching facilities. The Agricultural University of Bogor also offers
courses in nutrition, but with emphasis on food technology rather than com-
munity nutrition.
2.        The Second Five Year Development Plan (1974-79) makes provision
for expansion of the nutrition staff in the Ministry of Health, to allow
for five nutritionist in each of the country's 26 provinces and one for
each of the 286 Kabupatens and urban districts. As far as possible, a
dietition would be posted to each of the 588 government hospitals.
More of the additional manpower requirement would have to be trained
by the Academy of Nutrition. With its present enrollment of 100 students
a year and an average annual rate of 25 graduates, it would take the
Academy, however, more than 25 years to meet the demand.
The Nutrition Manpower Component
3.        Unless the output of nutritionists can be accelerated over the
next 10 years, the Government's nutrition interventions would be severely
constrained. Upgrading and expanding the Academy would permit doubling
the present enrollment to 200 students by 1980 and an average yearly output
of 60 graduates. This objective can be achieved by providing financing
for:
(a) increasing the full-time faculty to 24 2/ by providing
fellowships;
1/   Since 1951, it has produced 352 nutritionists, 198 females and 154 males.
According to 1973 records, 77 percent of all graduates were employed.
Lower level training of nutritionists is part of the training of health
personnel in the provinces.
2/   The Academy has currently 39 teaching personnel, oE whom only 14 are
full-time faculty members, six with Master's degrees and eight with
Bachelor's degrees, mainly from the Academy.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b) providing two additional teaching laboratories, an audio-
visual room and a library together with appropriate
facilities and equipment;
(c) modifying the curriculum to make it relevant to the
needs of Indonesia and the national nutrition program; and
(d) providing annual scholarships to 24 outstanding
students.
Staff Development
4.        There is need to upgrade the existing staff while it continues to
provide the ongoing training programs. The full development to a faculty
of 24 1/ would require about ten years, but recruitment would start in the
first year and a total staff of fourteen would be recruited during the four
year period. For this purpose, fellowships would be provided for one staff
member to take an M.S. in Indonesia, five staff members to take an M.S.
abroad, and two staff members would be candidates for Ph.D. In addition,
during years 2, 3 and 4, two persons per year would undergo training abroad
on 6 month fellowships. In-service training would be provided to 12 teachers
a year to keep them up to date with new developments.
5.        The Academy would establish a recruitment and selection committee
which would draw up criteria for selection and evaluation of prospective
faculty members. Policies to ensure retention of faculty, especially those
sent for training, would be formulated and enforced.
Curriculum
6.        The implementation of Government's nutrition policy would require
not only increased manpower for nutrition but also a reorientation of the
job description of community nutritionists and consequential changes in
the training curriculum. The job description of a community nutritionist
would be to:
(a) conduct nutrition counselling;
(b) organize institutional feeding, where appropriate;
(c) assist in planning nutrition action programs for groups
and communities; and
1/   One in Biochemistry; five in Food Science; six in Community
Nutrition; six in Dietetics; three in Behavioural Sciences; and
three in Management.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(d) assist in collecting, analysing and interpreting data about
nutritional status of communities; related agricultural and
health activities; and sociological and economic factors of
the population.
7.        The Academy's curriculum is currently being re-examined and re-
vised. Contacts since 1973, by the Academy with the Food Institute, East-
West Center, Hawaii led to a technical assistance program in 1975. Continu-
ing assistance will be provided to gear the curriculum to the changing job
functions.
8.        Under the new curriculum, first and second year students would be
required to undertake annually two weeks of field worlc in villages. During
the first year of study the emphasis could be on rural family life; the
second year's work would be devoted to food production, marketing and pro-
cessing. Third year students would undergo intensive field training for
four months in institutions, village hospitals and health centers to gain
experience in institutional feeding, nutrition surveys, and nutritional
health and agricultural intervention programs aimed at improved nutritional
status of communities. Towards the end of the field training period, students
would receive intensive guidance to prepare them for work in the communities.
Scholarships
9.        During 1950-1965 the Ministry of Health provided a subsidy for
every student admitted to the Academy, which covered board, lodging and
tuition. In 1965, when the Academy was moved from Bogor to Jakarta the
Government discontinued this subsidy. As a result, recruitment became
restricted to students who lived in the city and whose parents could
afford to provide the necessary financial support. This brought a marked
drop in student recruitment, since students from Jakarta were not attracted
to work in the rural areas. It would be advantageous if recruitment could
focus on those who have worked for two or three years in community develop-
ment, agriculture, health or education in rural areas and who have shown
talent and aptitude for work in rural communities. To encourage this,
24 scholarships would be offered each year so as to broaden and improve
recruitment. On completion of the course there would be an obligation to
work as a community nutritionist for a certain period.
Physical Facilities
10.       The Nutrition Academy is part of a bigger complex for health train-
ing; lecture rooms are shared. The Academy's buildirLg is comparatively small
in size and modestly equipped. The present teaching laboratories can accom-
modate groups of 24 students. Doubling the enrollment would require the
provision of two further teaching laboratories. The library facilities are
inadequate and a new library would be constructed wit:h facilities attached
for the preparation of audio-visual aids. Detailed equipment lists have
been prepared and appear to be appropriate for the needs of the Academy.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
11.       Salaries for full-time staff at the Academy are according to the
standards for educational institutions. In general, salaries are low and
there are fewer fringe benefits compared with equivalent positions in min-
istries. To attract higher level staff there is need to provide greater
rewards. In Jakarta, housing is a major problem, and a strong inducement
to attract good staff would be a housing provision. Six modest houses
would be built for this purpose.
Organization and Management
12.       The Chairman, Center for Manpower Training, Ministry of Health,
would have responsibility for the component. The Nutrition Academy would be
under the administrative direction of the Director of the Academy, assisted by
El Secretariat and the heads of three administrative departments - Instruction,
Community Service and Research and Evaluation. In addition there would be
five academic departments, each under a coordinator.  The organization chart
is in Appendix 1. Technical assistance will be provided for instruction
in the preparation of simple teaching aids and in the use and maintenance
of communications equipment to be used in the Nutrition Academy.
Training of Nutritionists of Other Levels
13.       Assistant nutritionists and dieticians are trained at the Nutrition
High School. Entry is after 9 years of basic education and the course last
for three years.
14.       The training of gaduate and post-graduate levels of nutrition is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. In that capacity, the
School of Public Health, University of Indonesia, is developing an area of
study on organization and administration of Community Nutrition. Key per-
sonnel in nutrition would be trained in this school. Eight of the eleven
medical schools in Indonesia offer courses in nutrition. Coordination among
these institutions would be established so that they could strengthen and
complement each other and avoid duplication.
15.       The training of higher level nutritionists necessary to staff the
Center for Research and Development in Nutrition and the Food Technology
Development Center would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education
(see Annexes 2 and 3 for detail).
Training for Agriculture Extension Staff
16.       In order to improve the effectiveness of the agriculture extension
staff in the field of nutrition, a provision would be made to provide for
inclusion of nutrition and home gardens into the curricula of the agricul-
tural high schools and the agricultural training and extension centers.
Agreement has been reached with the Agency for Education, Training and
Extension of the Ministry of Agriculture (supported through the Agricul-
tural Research and Extension Project, Loan 1179-IND) to work out detailed



ANNEX 7
Page 5
curricula. Also, agreement has been reached that training of extension
workers specializing in home gardens in the NIPP areas will be undertaken
through the Rural Extension Centers under the Directorate General for Food
Crops Agriculture (assisted through the National Food Crops Extension Proj-
ect, Loan 1267-IND).
Costs
17.       With respect to the training for nutritionisls the component
would finance the costs of construction of additional physical facilities,
furniture, equipment, fellowships for teachers and scholarships for students
besides the incremental operating costs of the Academy of Nutrition. The
total costs amount to US$1,445,000. Costs of civil works are given in
Annex 10 and a summary of all costs is given in Annex L1.
18.       With respect to the training for agriculture extension staff,
the component would finance only the incremental cost of the Agency for
Education, Training and Extension and of the rural extention centers in
order to expand their curricula to nutrition and home-garden training.
The total costs amount to US$259,000 essentially for curriculum develop-
ment, equipment and recruitment of instructors.






INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF NUTRITION ACADEMY
Director
Social Science                       Coordinator
Language
Management
Secretariat
Biological Sciences                                                                                                                                          Finance
Health Science                       Coordinator 2                                                                                                           Personnel
Dietetics                                                                                                                                                    Procurement
Chemistry                            Cood_a_r_
Food Science                         Coordinator 3
Food Processing                                                                                               l
inCotrnuntity                  l      l                  aon  [~Elui
Nutrition                                                                Teaching Curricula                           Library                            Survey & Research
Food & Nutrition Problems            Coordinator 4                       Extramural Curr.                             Extension                          Curriculum Evaluation
Educational Techniques                                                   Student Counselling                          Field Trng.
Statistics                           Coordinator5                                                                                                                                        H
Research Methods                _     __ _ _
World Bank-16605






ANNEX 8(a)
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
National Organization for Nutrition
1.        Presidential Instruction No. 14 of 1974 established a Ministerial
Committee of 10 Ministers, chaired by the Minister of State for People's
Welfare and with the following Ministers as members: Economics, Health,
Agriculture, Home Affairs, Information, Education, Religion, Industry and
Finance. The Committee is responsible for coordinating and implementing a
nutrition program on a national scale. A Technical Commission, chaired by
the Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS, has been established by decree to provide
technical support to the Committee. Appendixes 1 and 2 includes the decrees
and Appendix 3 provides a diagram of the national organization for nutrition.
Project Organization
2.        The management of each project component would be carried out
through existing organizational channels of the Government of Indonesia.
The project as a whole would be coordinated by the Director General of Com-
munity Health in the Ministry of Health who would be Project Director (part-
time). Three co-directors from the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education and
Agriculture would work with the Project Director who would be primus inter
pares. The organizational arrangements for implementation of each project
component are discussed in detail in the respective Annexes. A Chart indicat-
ing the arrangements for coordination of the project is given in Appendix 4.
The Project Director would be responsible for the coordination of all project
components and for providing professional and administrative support to those
directly responsible for implementation: the Directors of FTDC and CRDN, the
National Coordinator for NIPP and the Chairman of the Biureau for the Center of
Manpower and Training in the Ministry of Health. The P'roject Director would
have responsibilities for making withdrawal requests tc, the Bank. The Project
Director would review the project quarterly and ensure timely disbursements of
local and foreign funds to implementing agencies. A chronogram for the
project is presented in Annex 14.
3.        The Project Director would also be responsible for providing semi-
annual reports on the program progress to BAPPENAS, the Ministers of Health,
Agriculture and People's Welfare, as well as to the Bank. Mid-term and final
project evaluation reports would be provided by the Project Director to the
planning groups in the Ministry of Health and in BAPPENTAS, to the Technical
Commission and to the Bank. He would maintain liaison at the national level
with governmental and non-governmental agencies associated with the project
and with BAPPENAS.



ANNEX 8(a)
Page 2
4.        An Executive Secretary who would be a full-time project manager
would assist the Project Director with the coordination and execution of
the project. The Executive Secretary would be an Indonesian administrator,
senior in status and experience. Assistance to the Executive Secretary
would come from a Deputy Executive Secretary, a Finance and Procurement
Officer, and an Administrator. Detailed job descriptions of these officers
are in Appendix 5.
5.        A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be located with the Project
Director would consist of two full-time professionals who would be respon-
sible for defining the criteria and indicators to be monitored, the meth-
odology for data collection, the format for reporting data, and for the
analysis and interpretation of the data. The results of the analysis
would be reported through the Executive Secretary to the part-time Panel
of Experts consisting of 5-7 persons, to be recruited from universities
or other private or governmental institutions. These experts would assist
the Project Director on evaluation of the project and coordination of the
different components.
6.        The Center for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN) and
the components for nutrition education and nutritional manpower training
fall under the Ministry of Health and would continue to be managed by the
respective Directorates. The Food Technology Development Center (FTDC)
which is part of the Agricultural University, Bogor (IPB) would be under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education. The NIPP component, which
would be managed by a national coordinator in the Ministry of Health,
would, at the Kabupaten level, be under the management of the Bupati (the
chief executive of the Kabupaten) assisted by an Assistant Nutrition Program
Officer. The Ministry of Interior has issued instructions directing all
Governors of Provinces, Bupatis and Walikotas (chief executive of sub-
districts) to be responsible for coordinating the nutritional activities
in their areas of jurisdiction.
7.        It is essential that there should be close collaboration between
CRDN and FTDC, but it is equally important that there should be coordina-
tion between the work of the two Centers and other research institutions
in order that research programs can be more operational and have nutritional
significance. The Agricultural Research and Development Organization (ARD)
has been established to coordinate an integrated research program for agri-
culture. A Research Coordinating Committee would be established to facilitate
this collaboration and coordination. The Directors of CRDN and FTDC would
assume chairmanship of the Board in rotation. Membership would further
consist of a professional representative from each of the organizations;
a representative from ARD, BAPPENAS and a professionally qualified repre-
sentative from each of the Ministries of Health, Agriculture and Industry;
and a sociologist from IPB. In addition the Board would include a repre-
sentative of the Directorate of Food Crops Extension so that the problems
of implementation and extension would be brought to the notice of the re-
search personnel.



ANNEX 8(a)
Page 3
8.        During the first year of the project, the Committee would meet
each quarter, but the number of meetings could be reduced to twice a year,
when the Centers have become fully operational. The Committee's objectives
would be:
(a) to review the overall research programs of the Centers;
(b) to review individual research proposals in order to ensure
the setting of priorities, adequacy of research methodologies,
the operational relevance and any need for collaboration with
other Indonesian or foreign research institul:ions; and
(c)  to review the evaluation methodology for each research project.
Technical Assistance
9.        The project provides US$436,000 for consultants/advisors, both
local and foreign, and for support to the Project Director. Included would
be 84 man-months for a project management advisor, a p:Lanning consultant and
procurement/financial management expert. Besides, 120 man-months of short-
term local and foreign consultancies have been provided for assistance in
drawing up the national food and nutrition program. Draft terms of refer-
ence for the long-term consultants have been attached (Appendix 7). De-
tailed terms of reference for the short-term consultants will be drawn up
by the Project Director with respect to the needs of the project from time
to time.
10.       The project also provides US$52,000 for fellowships to key
personnel of the Project Director's Office and the Nutrition Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture. This is expected to cover the costs of travel
and subsistence to neighboring countries as well as to international
institutions of relevance, like INCAP in Guatemala, for five persons.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
"UlOFFICIAL TRANSLATION"
PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
PRESIDENTIAL INSTRUCTION OF REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (INPRES)
No. 14 of 1974
CONCERNING THE
IMPROVEMENT OF PEOPLE's FOOD MENU
THE PRESIDENT OF REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Considering:   a.   That in the context of promoting people's welfare, various
efforts have to be taken toward the improvement of the
people's menu by diversifying the kinds of the people's
foods and by improving its nutritional quality as well
as quantity;
b.   that to implement these efforts, continuous coordination
of activities is needed on national scale.
Noting:        1.   Article 4 para(1) 1945 Constitution.
2.   No. IV/MPR/1973 The People's Consultative Assembly-Decree
concerning The Basic Guidelines for State Policy.
3.   Law No. 9 of 1960 concerning Basic Health.
4.   Presidential Decree No. 9 of 1973.
5.   Presidential Decree No. 43 of 1973 concerning the main
duty of the State Minister of People's Welfare.
I N S T R U C T S
1.  The Minister of State for People's Welfare;
2.   The Minister of State for Economics, Finance and Industry/
Chairman of BAPPENAS;
3.   The Minister of Health;
4.   The Minister of Agriculture;
5.   The Minister of Home Affairs;
6.   The Minister of Information;
7.   The Minister of Education;
8.   The Minister of Religion;
9.   The Minister of Industry;
10.   The Minister of Finance.
First          To execute the activities for the improvement of the people's
menu on a national scale, within the framework of cooperation
among departments/institutions, using the implementation
guidance attached to this presidential instruction.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 1
Page 2
Second    A.   Especially for the Minister of State for People's
Welfare: To coordinate the execution of activities
for the improvement of the people's menu in line with
Government policy.
B.   Especially for the Minister of Home Affairs:
To charge Governors, Bupatis and Walikotas, as heads
of their respective regions, with the responsibility of
coordinating the execution of activities aimed at the
improvement of the people's menu in their respective
regions, and to give technical guidance in line with
Government policy.
Third           This instruction takes effect as of the date on which it
is issued and shall be executed in the best possible way.
Decree in Jakarta
on 13 September 1974
PRESIDENT OF REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(signed)
SOEHARTO



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 1
Page 3
ATTACHMENT TO THE
PRESIDENTIAL INSTRUCTION OF REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
No. 14 of 1974
13 SEPTEMBER 1974
GUIDANCE FOR EXECUTING ACTIVITIES AIMED AT THE
IMPROVEMENT OF PEOPLE's MENU
1.   Definition
The improvement of the people's menu means to diversify the kinds
of people's food and to improve its nutritional quality as well as quantity,
as an important effort in the national development to promote people's
welfare, materially and spiritually.
2.   Target
The national and comprehensive efforts for the improvement of the
People's menu aims at all levels of society and at all regions.
3.   Time
In the context of the execution of REPELITA II, the efforts for the
improvement of the people's menu will be conducted continuously and are
to be executed in the best possible way.
4.   Execution
To make the efforts successful, there is a need for a variety of
coordinated and nation-wide activities, followed by various departments.
Institutions in the Economic and Social Sectors which functionally will
organize and take part in the efforts to improve the people's menu
by using their own structure and apparatus. The executive unit for
the efforts to improve the people's menu is comprised as follows:
a.   Departments/Government institutions which will organize the
activities and take part in the execution of the national
programme for the improvement of people's menu.
b.   Associations/community organizations which voluntarily and
independently will organize and take part in the execution
of the national programme of improvement of the people's menu.
5.   Task of the Executive Unit
1.   To manage, adapt and develop the efforts for the improvment of
the people's menu in line with government policy in their context and
their function.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 1
Page 4
2.   To present a periodic report of their activilties to the M4inister
of State of People's Welfare through their Head of the Departments/
Institutions, as a compulsory requirement.
6.   Coordinating Meeting
Problems arising from the execution of activ:Lties for the improvement
of the people's menu will be solved in the coordiinating meeting, chaired
by the Minister of State of People's Welfare and attended by Heads of the
Departments/Government Institutions in the Econom:Lc and Social Sectors
dealing with these problems.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Minister of State for People's Welfare
Decree of the Minister of State of People's Welfare
No. 03/KEP/M/KESRA/II/1975
concerning
Institution of a Technical Commission
for People's Menu Improvement
The Minister of State for People's Welfare
Considering:   1.  That, as a realization of the Presidential Instruction
No. 14, 1974, on Improvement of the People's Menu, it
is considered necessary to develop and strengthen an
effective co-operation with the various Departments
concerned.
2.   That such co-operation calls for the existence of a
complementary set of machinery in the form of an
Inter-departmental Technical Commission;
Noting:         1.  The Presidential Instruction to the Limited Cabinet
Session on 26 November 1974;
2.  Minutes of the National Working Conference on People's
Menu Improvement on 22 July 1974;
3.   Minutes of the Meeting on Co-ordinated Implementation
of the Presidential Instruction (INPRES) No. 14, 1974,
on 20 November 1974;
4.   The appointment of a representative of each Department
concerned, regarding membership in the Technical Commission;
Decides
To establish the Decree of the Minister of State for People's Welfare on the
Institution of a Technical Commission for People's Menu Improvement.
Article I
1.   The composition and the names of the appointed members of the Technical
Commission for People's Menu Improvement, hereinafter referred to as
Technical Commission, are indicated in the attachment to this Decree.
- 2.   In case it is deemed necessary, membership in the Technical Commission
could be expanded according to need.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 2
Page 2
Article II
The Technical Commission basically functions as follows:
(a) To define various materials for the government policy formulation
on people's menu improvement.
(b) To prepare technical/operational guidelines on menu improvement
required by various operational units/agencies in implementing
their menu improvement programmes.
(c) To develop and strengthen co-ordination in the technical sector
among the various departments/agencies concerned with the imple-
mentation of the menu improvement programmes.
(d) To make a technical evaluation of how the various menu improvement
programmes are being implemented, and to prepare what favourable
prospects could be presented to the meeting on co-ordination
of ameliorative activities, as may be found necessary.
(e) To study various technical suggestions/instrucl:ions/reports
from different sources, national as well as inl:ernational, for
eventual submission as discussion material to t:he meeting on
co-ordination of the people's menu improvement programmes.
(f) To design basic guidelines for survey and education/training
programme in the menu improvement sector.
(g) To get in touch with agencies/officials in the context of data
collection.
Article III
1.   The Technical Commission Chairman could set up ad hoc committees
to deal with specific problems, in line with the existing needs.
2.   These sub-committees could seek assistance from experts of various
departments/agencies.
Article IV
To ensure continuance in action as well as the menu improvement programme
activities, periodic meetings would be convened at regular intervals or at
any time, as may be found necessary, by the Technical Commission. This will
be further arranged by the Chairman of the Technical Commission.
Article V
The Technical Commission shall be responsible to the Minister of State for
People's Welfare in the fulfillment of its mission.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 2
Page 3
Article VI
This decree takes effect as of the date on which it is established. Should
an error appear in this decree, an amendment shall be effected accordingly.
Established at: Jakarta
Date: 12 February 1975
(Signed)
Soenawar Soekowati
Minister of State for People's
Welfare
Copies of this decree are
forwarded to:
1.   H.E. the President of the Republic of Indonesia
2.   H.E. Vice-President of the Republic of Indonesia
3.   All Ministers of the Development Cabinet



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 2
Page 4
Minister of State for People's Welfare
Attachment to:
Decree of the Minister of State for People's Welfare
No. 03/KEP/M/KESRA/II/1975
on
Composition of Membership of the Technical Commission for
People's Menu Improvement
1.   Soejoto, S.H.                                -     Chairman cum Member
Deputy Chairman BAPPENAS
2.  Dr. Soepardan                                 -     Eeputy Chairmen cum Member
Staff to Minister of State
for People's Welfare
3.   Hartono, B.Sc.                               -     Secretary cum Member
4.   Dr. Soedarso                                 -            Member
Department of Health
5.  Dr. Malasan                                   -            Member
Department of Health
6.  Dr. Gatot Hadisantoso                         -            Member
Department of Social Affairs
7.  Dr. 0. Diojohusodo                            -            Member
Dept. of Social Affairs
8.   Dr. Dardio Somaatmadja, Ph.D.                -            Member
Department of Industries
9.   Dr. Suwadi Sinduredjo                        -            Member
Department of Agriculture
10.  Dr. H. Bachroen Dipo                         -            Member
Department of Religious Affairs
11.  Dr. H.A.R. Tilaar                            -            Member
BAPPENAS
12.  Dr. Suma'mur                                 -            Member
Department of Manpower,
Transmigration & Cooperatives
13.  Dr. Asril Aini                               -            Member
Department of Manpower
Transmigration & Cooperatives
14.  Djoko Noeljono                               -            Member
Department of Trade
15.  Dr. Yunus A. Hamzah, M.A.                    -            Member
Staff to Minister of St te
for People's Welfare
16.  Subagio                                      -            Member
Department of Information
17.  Prof. Dr. Achjani Atmakusuma                 -            Member
Department of Education & Culture
18.  Soetrisno Poerwodiredjo, S.H.                -            Member
Department of Home Affairs
(Sigined)
Soenawar Soekowati
Minister of State for People's Welfare






ANZ  8(a)
App.Odix 3
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT 'PROJECT
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR NUTRITION
|   Minister of State                             Minister for
For People's Welfare                                 Planning
Forum of ten Ministers )
_ _ _ _   =   _~   ~   ~~~__ I_______I   _______
Min. of Health                           Chaired by Dep. BAPPENAS                                BAPPENAS
Technical Commission                                 BPEA
l                                              l
Project Director       _-                -         - -
Nutrition Development
Project                                   a  a       a  a  a  a  a   . a  a  a  a  a  a  a .
World Bank-16606






INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Co-Directo,                                                                 Project Dire tot                                                           |     C-irec or       | |         oDrcr         |
D G. Mmit y                                                                D. G. Communmty                                                                   Mnistry of       _           nityo
of Intrr S.                                                                    HealIthm                                                                    Fue ation                 Agric Iture
NI             Goene         l             oodntrAaem                                                                      RNFD Food StorageNurto
LO                        Prroincia Co                a ion                                             Nuulio                                                                                                   Fooonn
Controlilng Anemia ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ t NIPrga                                                                                                                            an Home GardensUi
Food Supe nts muizabon|e
RILOH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol anh-d60






ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 5
Page I
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Draft Terms of Reference for Staff of the Project Director
The Executive Secretary
Job Description
1.        The Executive Secretary would be responsible to the Project
Director for:
(a) the coordination of the various components arid being the
normal channel of communication for conveying instructions
from the Project Director;
(b) the administration of the project, including office and
personnel management, accounting and procuremaent;
(c) the timely disbursement of funds to the implementing
agencies;
(d) convening monthly meetings of project officers to facilitate
cooperation and communication between those responsible
for components;
(e) the consolidation of progress reports from project officers,
the preparation of issues papers for referral to the Expert
Advisory Committee and for drafting the semi-annual reports
required by the Minister of Health, BAPPENAS, The Minister
of State for People's Welfare and by the Bank.
Qualifications
2.        The Executive Secretary would be a senior administrator, with at
least 4 years previous experience in management and with a positive attitude
towards the need for action to assist the nutritionally deprived. The co-
ordinating role demands qualities of leadership and tact. The managerial
functions would require meticulous attention to detail., while retaining
understanding of the overall concept.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 5
Page 2
The Deputy Executive Secretary
Job Description
3.        The Deputy Executive Secretary would be responsible to the
Executive Secretary for:
(a) continuing liaison with component project officers and
their staffs; and with other relevant agencies;
(b) identifying problems in any of the project components,
arranging for speedy consideration of alternative solutions
and the reaching of decisions on remedial measures;
(c) identifying gaps in knowledge which hinder or inhibit
implementation and referring such gaps in knowledge for
further study or research.
4.        In the absence of the Executive Secretary, the Deputy Executive
Secretary would be responsible to the Project Director for the functions of
the Executive Secretary. The Deputy Executive Secretary would travel, as
necessary, to keep in touch with all aspects of the project.
Qualifications
5.        The Deputy Executive Secretary would be a university graduate,
of medium level seniority, with 2-3 years previous experience in management
or administration. The Deputy Secretary should have facility for collaborating
with others, an inquiring mind with quick perception and sound judgement and
familiarity with potential resources for problem solving. The Deputy Secretary
would require to be physically fit for extensive and arduous travel.
The Finance Officer
Job Description
6.        The Finance Officer would be responsible to the Executive Secretary
for:
(a) ensuring that the Government's and Bank's requirements in regard
to financial and procurement matters are met;
(b) ensuring that appropriate accounting and auditing procedures
are introduced, and adhered to, in consultation with the Bank;
(c) coordinating the preparation of financial budgets of individual
components;



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 5
Page 3
(d) preparing cash flows and estimates of expendliture for
the project;
(e)  ensuring correct application for project funds;
(f)  reviewing the disbursement requests from the project
officers of the components;
(g) establishing a cost analysis and record keeping system for
meaningful evaluation of cost effectiveness of individual
or groups of intervention measures;
(h) reporting to the Government and to the Bank on the financial
outlays under the project.
Qualifications
7.        A professionally qualified accountant with 4 years' experience
at ministerial or departmental level in directing the accounting of sub-
units; experience in the framing of estimates, control of expenditure,
esabursement of funds and in working with high level government officials.
The Procurement Officer
Job Description
8.        The Procurement Officer would be responsible to the Executive
Secretary for:
(a) ensuring correct procedures for inviting tenders, evaluating
tenders and awarding contracts for civil works, vehicles,
project stores and requisites;
(b) arranging with each component for the physical control and
checking of project stores;
(c)  arranging the general security for transport and warehousing.
Qualifications
9.        The Procurement Officer should be qualified as a Stores Officer,
with previous experience in evaluating tenders, procuring and controlling
stores and equipment at least at departmental level, preferably with
experience in the procurement procedures laid down by the Bank. If in-
experienced in these procedures, there should be the aptitude to acquire
knowledge of them.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 6
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Draft Terms of Reference for Advisors/Consultants to
Assist the Project Director and the Nutrition Unit
Project Management Advisor
1.        Indonesia's Nutrition Development Project would require the
services of a Project Management Advisor for a period of two years to
assist the Project Director and his staff in the organization and manage-
ment of the project.
2.        The Project Management Advisor would be a nutritionist with
management experience or a development planner/economist with experience in
planning and organizing multidisciplinary programs in the social sector,
preferably with an orientation towards nutritional programs or a health
planner with experience in nutrition project management. We would look for
a person with integrative skills and a capacity to relate the project to
the national program of development. Desirable qualifications would
include experience in managing relationships with international organiza-
tions, as well as handling problems of interdisciplinary and multisectoral
coordination.
3.        The Project Management Advisor would assist the Project Director in:
(a) setting up the organizational structure and defining the roles in
the Project Directorate vis-a-vis the project entities;
(b) developing the monitoring and evaluation unit, recruiting suitable
local and foreign consultants for the unit and establishing the
scope of the unit's work in relation to the project activities;
(c) assisting the Project Director and his executive secretary to
plan, implement and monitor the development of the various
components;
(d) formulating procedures to select consultants for the various
project components,
(e) assisting in the work of preparation of budgets for and
coordinating the allocation of funds for different project
components, and
(f) assisting in the work of making withdrawal requests from the
Bank.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 6
Page 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR:
(a) Procurement Advisor
1.        The Indonesia nutrition development project requires the services of
an expert in managing the procurement of equipment for the various research
facilities to be strengthened under the project.
2.        The Procurement Advisor would have had three to five years experience
in management of procurement of equipment and of evaluation of tenders for
civil works in large-scale organizations. He would preferably have had ex-
perience in working with or in an international organization. Desirable
qualifications would be that the person selected is by training an engineer
or accountant with experience of managing work and accounting in research-
oriented projects.
3.        The Procurement Advisor would be recruited directly or through
international or bilateral assistance under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank to assist the Project Director and his staff in:
(a) ensuring, in consultation with the Resident Mission of the Bank,
that procedures for the procurement of equipment and award of
contracts under the project are compatible with those laid down
in Bank guidelines and agreed to as part of the Project;
(b) establishing detailed operating procedures in such a way as to
ensure that; (i) the best possible equipment. is purchased and
installed at the lowest possible cost to the borrower, (ii) en-
forceable maintenance arrangements are adequately spelled out in
contracts with suppliers and (iii) adequate training is given
to the local personnel in necessary maintenance procedures;
(c) assisting the Project Director and staff in ensuring that the
necessary financial procedures are followed so that the Bank
can disburse its loan amount to the Government against the
category expeditiously; and
(d) laying out appropriate and feasible review procedures.
(b) Planning Consultants
1.   The Indonesia Nutrition Development Project would require planning
consultants to assist the Project Director. This is related to the
requirement that the various tests, studies and evaluations in the
project be utilized to help prepare a national food and nutrition
program. Planning consultants would be required to work both in
the Project Director's staff and in the Nutrition Unit of the
Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 8(a)
Appendix 6
Page 3
2.   The planning consultants would be drawn from among economists
trained in analysis of food policy and nutrition-related issues and
would have had experience in preparing plans and programs for
developing countries or nutritionists with specific training in
economic analysis and project/program evaluation.
3.   The planning consultants in the Project Directorate would assist
the Project Director and his staff in:
(a) drawing up the time phasing and nature of data and analysis
for the project objective of drawing up a national food
and nutrition program to be incorporated in the Third Develop-
ment Plan;
(b) organizing and, where necessary, conducting studies in the
specific areas necessary to develop the policy framework
and program content for the plan; and
(c) drawing up periodic reports to the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit on the progress of the work.
4.   The planning consultant in the Nutrition Unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture will assist the Director of the Unit in:
(a) drawing up a program of work;
(b) organizing, in consultation with the Project Director's staff,
studies in regard to the nutritional consequences of agricul-
tural policies; and
(c) evolving a food and nutrition policy for consideration of the
head of the unit and for transmission to the Project Director.



ANNEX 8(b)
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food and Nutrition Unit: Ministry of Agriculture
1.        Decree No. 270 of the Ministry of Agriculture, dated March 27, 1969,
established a Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU) in the Ministry under the super-
vision of the Bureau of Planning, Secretary-General's office but directly
responsible to the Minister.  The obj#4tives of the dec:ree were that:  the
FNU would advise the Ministry on actions to increase the production of foods,
improvement in the quality of diets for all people, but: especially for farmers
and on the implementation of a policy for food productLon and utilization.
The FNU would be the Ministry's agency for coordinating its nutritional
activities with those of other ministries. In particu:Lar, the FNU would
study the effects of economic and social factors on human food consumption.
2.        Under Decree No. 169, dated April 21, 1975, a team was appointed
to carry out the work of the FNU. It consists of 12 senior part-time officers
of various departments of the Ministry of Agriculture. However, the Unit
lacks the basic prerequisites of trained manpower to carry out its task
effectively.
3.        Recognizing the important role which the Ministry of Agriculture
could assume in Indonesia's nutrition program, the Government wishes to
strengthen the FNU, so that it would become an important factor in introduc-
ing nutritional aspects into agricultural policies and planning. To ensure
this, the FNU would require not only additional allocation of resources in
terms of manpower and funds, but also proper integration within the adminis-
trative structure of the Ministry of Agriculture. This integration will be
required to ensure proper coordination of FNU's nutrition actions vis-a-vis
the production oriented Directorates General of food crops, estates, livestock
and fisheries, and agencies such as the FTDC and CRDN.
4.        The primary objective of this component would be to strengthen the
FNU and to establish the organizational structure and links, both within and
outside the Ministry of Agriculture, required to enable the FNU to advise the
Ministry on the nutritional consequences of current arid future agricultural
policies and programs.
5.        The project provides for about 24 man-months of short-term technical
assistance to help in strengthening the FNU and to assist it in in-service
training and work implementation. The terms of reference for a nutritional
planner, food economist and data analyst are given in Appendix 1. To build up
the staff of the FNU, the project also provides 72 man-months of fellowships
for specialized M.S. training abroad in economics/nutrition, community
nutrition and agricultural economics/nutrition. These fellowships will be
allocated by the Project Director in consultation with the Co-director of
the Ministry of Agriculture.
6.        The total base costs of this component would be US$180,000.



ANNEX 8(b)
Appendix 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants
Nutrition Planner
1.        Needed qualifications are a University degree in agricultural
economics and experience in the analysis of nutritional problems and the
formulation and implementation of nutritional policies and programs. The
nutritional planner will be responsible, in close association with the Chief
of the FNU, for supervising the total work program and its implementation.
Specifically he will assist the FNU in:
(a) assessing administrative, financial and manpower requirements
for an operational FNU and in formulating a concrete proposal
for implementation;
(b) assessing and strengthening the links between the FNU and the
various Directorates General of the Ministry of Agriculture,
ARD and AETE.
(c) evaluating the food and nutritional aspects of ongoing or
planned agricultural policies and projects; and
(d) formulating and implementing in-service training.
Nutritional Economist
2.        Needed qualifications are a University degree in economics with
experience in analysing and evaluating economic/agricultural data relevant to
nutritional planning. The nutritional economist in close association with the
Chief of the FNU will be responsible for developing a methodology to collect
agricultural and. economic data relevant to nutritional aspects of agricultural
project and policy formulation.
Data Analyst
3.        Extensive knowledge and experience in assessing and analyzing nut-
ritional statistics (food production, food availability, nutritional status)
and in the formulation of analytical systems for collection, interpretation
and evaluation.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Purposes
1.        There are three aspects to monitoring and evaluation of the
Indonesia Nutrition Development Project. The first is the monitoring func-
tion that provides timely information to the project management concerning
the progress of the project and the relative effectiveness with which project
inputs are utilized. This function would include an ongoing evaluation of
project impact with reference to specific project goals. Second is the
evaluation comprised in the test components of the project. This would, for
instance, include the study of the effectiveness of different combinations of
interventions and the efficiency of delivery systems in the NIPP area, the
cost effectiveness of improved storage methods and processing, and the impact
of various methods of nutrition education for behavioral change. Third is
nutrition program evaluation, involving policy-oriented studies that utilize
results of the project and specially designed research efforts to assess the
direction in which the project and the nutrition program are going and to
suggest ways of improvement. It will also be aimed at determining measures or
groups of measures best suited for bringing about improvement in the nutri-
tional status of the population, leading to development of the national
nutrition program.
Information to be Collected
2.        The Monitoring Function - Monitoring of the project progress
has to be done through carefully designed reports on physical progress,
expenditure and effects in relation to goals. The manager of each com-
ponent activity will be responsible for monitoring the progress of the
components and submitting reports at quarterly intervals to the Project
Director through the Executive Secretary. The reporting system will be so
designed as to provide information on the following key-indicators:
(a) the degree to which professional and administrative staffing
levels meet project schedules;
(b) detail of fellowships and in-service training programs,
giving numbers of staff participating and the quality
and appropriateness of the educational and training
programs;
(c) the provision of technical services such as long-term
and short-term consultants;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d) the progress of civil works construction at CRDN, FTDC
and the Nutrition Academy in accordance with projected
implementation timetables;
(e) equipping of laboratories and field facilities to
ensure that they become operational within projected
time-limits; and
(f) progress of nutrition and nutrition-related activities in
NIPP villages and plantations in accordance with plans of
operation.
3.        The evaluation of research programs would be designed to provide
the information on which future program emphasis would be determined. In
research projects key indicators cannot easily be pre-determined, but would
be chosen for each research project as it develops. Basic areas for choice
of indicators would reflect: the goals of the particular research project;
methods of analysis; the interpretation of experimental data; the presen-
tations of meaningful progress reports; the testing and demonstration of
results; and the degree of success achieved in the dissemination and adop-
tion of new techniques. The Research Coordinating Committee would review
the research programs. Before giving approval to a proposed research project,
the Committee would review the choice of indicators for evaluation. The
progress reports on research projects, submitted to the Research Coordinating
Committee of Directors for its consideration, would include information on all
designated evaluation criteria. Ongoing evaluation as part of monitoring
reports will be carried out, with the assistance of consultants where nec-
essary, under the direction of the monitoring and evaluation staff of the
Executive Secretary.
4.        Evaluation of Tests - A few components of the project seek to
evaluate the effectiveness of different methods of nutrition interventions,
separately and in combination. In the NIPP component, the objective is to
determine the effectiveness, together with costs, of the proposed program of
nutrition, health and other activities for achieving a reduction in morbidity
and mortality and improving nutritional status. NIPP would also help deter-
mine the relative cost-effectiveness of these activities in combination as
compared to when they are taken up separately. The CRDN would be responsible
for this evaluation. This would involve a carefully designed base-line
survey of a sample population in the selected Kabupatens prior to opera-
tional action. The survey would cover such parameters as morbidity, in-
fant mortality, anthropometric measurements and biochemical determinations.
After NIPP has been in operation for 18 months, a survey using the same
parameters would be repeated and again at the end of the project period.
For each of the NIPP villages as well as in the control villages the mid-
term and final results would be compared with the base-line data. The find-
ings would be analysed according to the different combinations of interven-
tions. The CRDN would be responsible for the technical design of the survey,



ANNEX 9
Page 3
including the statistical frame, the methodology for data collection, the
questionnaire design and the analysis of results. Data collection would be
carried out by the village cadres or other trained staif, under the technical
supervision of a team from CRDN. Provision has been made under technical
assistance for design of the survey and analysis of results. Results from the
nutrition education component would be evaluated by a l:eam of experts under
the direction of the Chairman for Manpower Training, with assistance from CRDN
on the nutritional aspects and from sociologists from [PB on the Knowledge-
Attitude-Practice tests. 1/ The Food Technology Development Center would be
in charge of evaluating the cost-effectiveness of different methods of improved
food storage and processing.
5.        In the Anemia Control and Prevention Program on Plantations, the
project would seek to evaluate the effectiveness of delivery systems for
iron supplementation on large and small plantations. CRDN and the NILHOH
would work on the scientific and technical strength of the component, but
CRDN would be in charge of the baseline survey and final evaluation of the
labor productivity and effectiveness of delivery systems.
6.        Program Evaluation - Various program oriented studies would be
carried out as part of the project, by consultants drawn from a part-time
panel of experts from universities, the CRDN and the FTDC. These studies
will be funded as part of the project and organized by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit under the Project Director. Studies with respect to NIPP
would focus on:
(a) the operational efficiency of the delivery system with
reference to the extent to which the delivered food
reaches the target groups;
(b) the degree of reliability of the proposed system of
identification of target beneficiaries;
(c) the effectiveness of the administrative checks and
balances to reduce abuses; and
(d) the extent to which costs can be reduced by appropriate
choice of foods, delivery system and community partici-
pation.
The primary focus of these studies would be on:
(a) nutritional effects of agricultural and general economic
policy changes;
11   Standard K.A.P. tests, as used in sociological studies, would be
adapted for evaluating behavioural changes relating to nutritional
knowledge and practice.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(b) nutritional norms and levels of poverty in different regions
and urban/rural groups;
(c)  relationships between nutrition and productivity in organized
industry, farm labor, and small farms;
(d) effect of nutrition education through mass media such as films,
radio and the press;
(e) cost-effectiveness and nutritional relevance of policies
encouraging increased production of cereals vs. tubers
such as cassava/sweet potatoes in certain areas of
Indonesia; and
(f) relationship between better health and nutrition, reduction
in infant mortality and fertility.
These studies would be utilized by the planning staff of the Directorate
of Nutrition of the Ministry of Health as well as the Food and Nutrition
Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture in the preparation of the national food
and nutrition program for inclusion in the Third Development Plan.
Organization and Staffing for Monitoring and Evaluation
7.        The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which would consist of two
professionals with support staff would also draw on the services of con-
sultants. The unit would report through the Executive Secretary to the
Project Director. The unit would be responsible for:
(a) designing the format of and reviewing the monitoring
reports and returns;
(b) organizing special studies through consultants;
(c) arranging for verification, on a sample basis, of
data reported; and
(d) advising the Project Director on the state of progress
and effectiveness of the project.
The staff for monitoring and evaluation functions performed by CRDN and
FTDC are detailed in the respective Annexes.
The Costs of Mlonitoring and Evaluation
8.        The project provides for US$250,000 for studies in addition to
the cost of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and the related staff in
various research components. The total cost of monitoring and evaluation
in the project is estimated to be around US$592,000.



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Data and Analysis for Monitoring and Evaluation
Effectiveness of
Monitoring of ProJect Progress         Nutritional Status       Nutritional Interventions
Examples of Data                 Progress of construction,              Height, weight, arm       Gain of weight by
procurement of equipment, staffing,  circumference,             children, reduction in
training arrangements                 vitamin A levels,         morbidity, infant mortal-
hemoglobin levels        ity, number needing
supplementation.
Frequency of Collection           Quarterly/monthly for some            Baseline Data             Monthly
items                                  Midterm
Final
Responsibility for Design of                                            CRDN                      CRDN/National Coordinator
Sample Questionnaire, if any                                                                      of NIPP.
Staff Collecting Data             Civil works staff/staff of the        Specially trained         NIPP's field staff.
research entity(CRDN, FTDC)/field    enumerators.
staff of NIPP.
To Whom Data to be Reported      Director of the Component/National   CRDN                        CRDN through National
Coordinator NIPP                                                Coordinator for NIPP
Responsibility for
Analysis and Evaluation
First Level                  Director of Component/National         CRDN/NPO                  CRDN
Coordinator of NIPP
Second Level                 M&E Unit                               MEU/Project Director    Project Director
Third Level                  Project Director
IH 



ANNEX 10
Page i
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Civil Works
Planning
1.        The building designs are well advanced and all preliminary plans
have been completed. The drawings were prepared by local architectural
consultants engaged by the Government and under the guidance of a small
task force, headed by the Chief Engineer, Ministry of Health and represen-
tatives from other client agencies. This task force has worked well and
should be retained during the preparation of detailed drawings and con-
struction to ensure uniformity in standards.
Estimates
2.        All estimates of costs quoted in the Appendices are based on
costs in Indonesia as of June 1976. These estimates allow for adequate
standards of finish for research laboratories and food processing buildings.
The equipment for the buildings has been included under the category of
scientific equipment and, therefore, is excluded from these estimates.
Control
3.        The civil works component of the project will be implemented by
the works section of the Ministry of Health.
Sites
4.        All sites for buildings have been selected and appear to be
suitable. Surveys and site engineering tests on each site would be
undertaken before designs are finalized.
Professional Services
5.        The works section of the Ministry of Health will require assis-
tance for architectural services. The Government has retained consultants,
who have prepared preliminary drawings for all buildings. They would
continue to be retained for the preparation of detailed drawings, specifi-
cations and to oversee the work to final completion.
6.        Particular importance is attached to achieve standards of finish
suitable for research laboratory work and adequate accommodation for the
equipment and plant. The specifications reflect this requirement and the
site supervision must ensure that these standard of finish are met. It has
been agreed that a resident engineer of the Ministry of Works would be
stationed at Bogor to supervise the work on CRDN and assist: in supervision
of civil works of FTDC.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Construction
7.        The civil works component would be implemented through normal
government channels using established government procedures and documen-
tation, in respect of the following:
(a) works procedures through bidding, construction, supervision
to final acceptance of completed building, including con-
tract control and responsibility for supervision, both
general and on-site supervision. In particu:Lar the method
of pre-qualifying bidders and the systems for bidding, bid
evaluation and award would follow standard Ministry of Work
procedures;
(b) general conditions of contract;
(c) standard bidding documents; and
(d) standard form of contract agreement.
8.        All contracts for construction in excess of US$1 million would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines.
Procurement of Furniture
9.        Contracts for the procurement of furniture below US$50,000 would
be in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Civil Works - Locations and Accommodation
A.   Center for Research and Development in Nutrition:  Jalan Samboja, Bogor
(a)  Wing I - Food Sciences Laboratories - Total Area                    820 m
Includes: Animal Rooms & Laboratory; Instrument Center;
Food Toxicology and Food Micro-Biology
Laboratories.
(b)  Wing II - Biochemistry Laboratories - Total Area                  1,100 m
Includes:  Biochemical, Haematology and Anthropometric
Laboratories; and Cafeteria
(c)  Wing III - Library and Auditorium - Total Area                    1,330 m2
Includes: Book Stack, Reading and Printing Rooms;
Workshop; Auditorium with Stage; and
Administrative Offices.
(d)  Renovations to Existing Buildings - Total Area                    2,200 m2
Includes: Laboratories for Community Nutrition.
(e)  Dormitories for 32 persons - Total Area                             575 m2
(f) 14 Staff Houses
Includes:  12 houses each with a-n area of 120 m 2
2 houses each with an area of 250 m
(g) Site Infrastructure Work
Includes: Power House and Emergency Power; Fencing;
Roads and Parking Areas; 4.50 meter Bridge
over the river.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 2
B.   Food Technology Development Center:  Agricultural UJniversity, Bogor
(a)  Administrative Building - Total Area                              582 m2
Includes: Administrative Offices; Seminar Room;
Conference Room and Library.
2
(b)  Food Research Laboratories - Total Area                         1,224 m
Includes: Microbiology, Chemical/Biochemical and
Physical Laboratories; Experimental
Cookery; Culture Collection, Chromatography;
Incubation; Workshops and Storerooms.
(c)  Pilot Plant - Total Area                                        1,294 m
Includes: Food Processing Plant and Machinery;
Packaging Room; Boiler House; Laboratory;
Smokehouse, Storerooms; Workshops; and
Administration.
(d)  Utility Building - Total Area                                     270 m
Includes: Quality Control; Generator; Transl-ormer;
Bicycle Shed; Store and Garage.
(e) Site Infrastructure Work
Includes: Guard House; Fencing; Roads and Parking
Areas; Transformer and Generator; Water
Tower and Covered Ways.
(f) Staff Housing
2
Includes: 10 houses each with an area of 120 m
2 Houses each with an area of 250 m



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 3
C.   Nutrition Academy - Blok F, Kebayoran Baru, Jakarta
(a)  Food Laboratories - Total Area                                     284 m2
Includes: Food Technology and Food Chemistry
Laboratories; Balance Room; Workshop
and Store.
(b)  Library and Audio Visual Room - Total Area                         362 m 2
Includes: Library; Audio Visual Room; Display
Hall; Store and Toilets.
(c) Site Infrastructure Work
Includes: Roads and Paths; Standby Generator and
Power House; Water Supply Pump.
(d) Staff Housing
Includes:  6 Houses each with an area of 120 m
Roads and Power Supply.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Rps '000)
Civil Works-Construction '
Center for Research and Development in Nutrition
Food Laboratories                                              82,000
Biochemistry Laboratories                                     110,000
Library and Auditorium                                        119,700
Renovation of Existing Buildings                               91,000
Dormitory                                                      )46,000
Installations                                                 208,500
Staff Housing (14 houses)                                     126,100
Site Infrastructure                                           194,800
Professional Fees                                              87,800
Contingencies Including Price Escalation                      126,395
Total                                                  1,192,295
Food Technology Development Center
Food Research Laboratories                                    1.22,400
Pilot Plant                                                   122,930
Utility Buildings                                              13,500
Administration Buildings                                       46,560
Installations                                                 148,500
Staff Housing                                                 155,850
Site Infrastructure                                            85,000
Professional Fees                                              70,000
Contingencies Including Price Escalation                      108,835
Total                                                    873 575
Nutrition Academty
Food Laboratories                                              25,560
Library and Audio Visual Room                                  32,580
Installations                                                  11,900
Staff Housing and Site Infrastructure                          63,500
Professional Fees                                              13,350
Contingencies Including Price Escalation                       30,730
Total                                                    177,620
1/  Unit Costs                              Costs per m2
Laboratories                         Ros 90,000 to 100,000
Utility Buildings                        50,000
Other Buildings - Administrative         80,000



INDONESIA NUJTRITION DEVELPGNfT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Ci1il Works
197                      1978                       1910
CDnlltmOu m                                  jF fil~~~~~i  JIA7 SIjo;VNjD |j* F* INiA d JJjAiIOIsS   N jD| jF  Aj    M JIJAS3li  JIF; k:  H J J A: 50 N
Construction
a.CRDlN and FTDC
Preparation of Bid Documents
Architectural, Structural and other working                         i
DetALiled Drawings 
Specificationsa
Cost Control and Fi.nal. Estimation
InvitaLtion to Bid
Bid Evaluation and Contract Award
Construction
bNutrition Academy
Drawings
Specifications
Final Estimate
Bidding
Award of Contract
Construction
Furniture and &zuinment
Preparation of Fur-niture and
Equipment lists                                   I                                  ;I
Advertisements
invitation to Bid
Bid Evaluatioii and Contract Award                                                 a
Delivery end InstaiJation



INDONIESIA NUTRITION DEVELO P1,EN1T PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Center for Research and Development in lNutrition
US$ '000
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4             Local    Foreign       Total
A.    Civil Works                                                                                                     A
1   Construction                               386    1,150    1,337                      1,724      1,1149      2,873
2   Furniture and Equipment                             121       151                       272                    272
Sub-Total A                            386    1,271    1,_488                      1,996      1,149      3,14
B.   Non-Construction
1   Equipment
a. Vehicles                                    20       75        70                        15        150         165
b. Special Equipment                                   100       305      208               62        551         613
Sub-Total Bi                            20       175      375       208               77        701         778
2   Technical Assistance
a. Advisors/Consultants                        35       35        35       35                         1140       1140
b. Fellowships                                 86       95        93-      74                57       291        3148
Sub-Total B2                           121       130      128       109               57       1431        488
3   Incremental Operating Costs
a. Salaries                                   100      200       250      250              800        -           800
b. Books and Joumals                           50       50        50       50               25        175         200
c. Other Costs                                 5C       c,      150       200              1425        2 
Sub-Total B3                            200      300      450       500            1,250        200      1,450
Sub-Total B                             341      605       953      817            1,3814    1,332       2,716
TOTAL BUSE COSTS (A+B)                            76    2,441       817            3380      2      
H



MIDONEF1A NIJTRITION DPEUIOPMMNT FROJECT
e   Cost Estibrates
Food Te hnl       evel       Center
us$ 'co0
Y.ear I   Year 2    Year    ~ r_              Local    92LI         o'L
A.    Cl-vil Works
1    Constracticw                               210       700    1,195                     1,263        842      2,105
2    Furniture                                                                                 3                    73
Sub-Total A                             210      730    1,238                      1,336        8142    2,1,78
B.    Non-Construction
1    ERimn
a.  Vebicles                                              20       26                          4        42         46
b.  Special E  .pmnt                            1.00      0      L             200           16                 1600
Sub-tol Bi                             100      320    1,026          200           164      1,482     1,646
2    Tecbnical Assis e
a.  Advisors/C  snl ants                        `49      108      166          111            26       408        43
b.  Fellowships                                          101.                   40          !123285
Su -Tota1 B2                             24       209      237          151          161.       560        721
3    licrementW a    r      Costs
a.  S&laries                                     25       46      133          176           318 0       80
b,. .Bpoks and Jur ol                            10       40        5                                  100        100
C(  Other Coal>s                                 2r'    120 t1j2 00                                    100        ,00
Sub-Total. B3                            60       211      333          376          780        200        980
Sub-Total B                             284      740    1,596          727         1,105      2,242     3,347
'TAL BASE-COSTS (A+B)                   294    l4132                             ________________3___
CD 



INDON~ESIA NUTTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Gust z;stiuiates
1hutrition Intervention Pilot Project in Rural Areas
U SW4' I000
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Local       Foreign      Total
A.  Civil Works
1. Construction of village                             11          23          54          70           18          88
nutrition centers        )
N.on.-Construction
1.  quet
a. Vehicles                            57          58           90                      40         165          205
b. Special equipment                   31    _      47         78                       56         100          156
Jub-Total 3(l)                        T156                                              96         265          361
2. Technical Assistance
a. Consultants                         50           75         75                       60         140          200
b. Fellowships                         10          12                                               22           22
Sub-Total B(2)                                                  75                                              222
3. Food Supplement                                     26          85         196          307                     307
h. Operating Costs
a. Salary support                      11          35           87         170         303           -          303
b. Nlutrition education                32          38           75          75         220           _          220
c. Health activities                               18           52         102          37         135          172
d. -vWorkshops/seminar                 15           20          25          15          75           -           75
e. Transport/travel                    18           20          60          72         153           17         170
f. Evaluation                          20          30          85           85         220          -           220
g. Training                            30          87         185           57         359           -          359
h. Other expenses                      15           15          20          40          90                      g9
Sub-Total B(4)                        14            3          589         616       1_1457         1,609
Sub-Total B                           289          481         917         812       12920          579 2B,499
Total Base Costs  (A+B)                       289         492         940          866       1,990         597        2,587
CDS



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Nutrition Communication and Behavioral Change
US$ '0
Year 1    Year 2  Year 3   Year 4            Local         Foreign         Total
1.  Equipment
(a)  Vehicles                         10         40                               20              30             50
(b)  Special Equipment                15         20                                8              27             35
Sub-Total 1                           25         60                               28              57              85
2.  Technical Assistance
(a)  Advisors                          6        41       47        12             36              70            106
(b)  Fellowships                      10        10                                                20             20
Sub-Total 2                           16                           12             36              90            126
3.  Incremental Operating Costs
(a)  Salaries                         25         35      45        45            150                            150
(b)  Mass Media                       20         25      25        30             80              20            1)0
(c)  Educational Material             50         50      50        50            150              50            2)0
(d)  Baseline Survey/Evaluation        5          5       5         7             22                              )2
(e)  Training                         15         30      30        20             95                              65
(f)  Travel and Per Din               20         20      30                      100                            10
(g)  Other Expenses                   20         30      .0    50                150
Sub-Total 3                          155        125               232 ___               _     _    _ L_
Total Base Costs (11+2+3)            196        306     282       244            812                          1 028
CD  EC



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Manpower Training
US$ '0o0
I. Nutrition Academy                             Year 1    Year 2   Year 3      Year           Local    Foreiga     Total
A.    Civil Works
1    Construction                                  50       280        98                      257       171        428
2    Furniture                                               36       -40                       76                   76
Sub-Total A                                50       316       138                      333       171        504
B.    Non-Construction
1    Equipment
a.  Vehicles                                      20         26                                13        33          46
b.  Special Equipment                                        80        30                      22        88         110
Sub-Total Bl                               20       106        30                       35       121        156
2    Technical Assistance
a.  Staff Fellowships                             30        48         44         22           16       128         144
b.  Student-Fellowships                           67         67        91         91          316                   316
Sub-Total B2                               97       115       135        113           332       128        460
3    Operating Costs
B.   -'L aa                                        50        60        70         80          260        -          260
b.  Other costs                                     7        13        20         25           65                    65
Sub-Total B3                               57        73        90        105           325       -          325
Sub-Total B                               174       294       255         218          692       249         941
T0TAL BASE COSTS                          224       610       393         218        1.025       _420     1,445
II. Assistance to AETE                               30        40         80        109          248        11         259
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(                 b - -.



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPNT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Organization and Management
US$ '000
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3         Year 4        Local       Foreign         Total
A.  Protect Directorate
1. Technical AssistanceLJ
a.  Consultants/Advisors            21          80        175            160          156           280            436
b.  Fellowships                      8          22         22             -            -             52             52
Sub-Total A 1.                29        102         197           160           156           332           488
2. Operating Costs
a.  Salary Support                  38          38         38             42          156            -             156
b.  Travel and Per Diem              6           7          8             10           31            -              31
c.  Evaluation                      50          80         80            140          280            70            350
d.  Other Costs                      6           6          6              6           24            -              24
Sub-Total A 2.               100        131         132           198           491            70           561
Base Costs for A.                    129         233        329            358          647           402          l,0o9
B. Nutrition Unit in Agriculture
Ministry
1.  Technical Assistance
a.  Consultants                                 35         70             35            _140                       140 
2. Operating Costs
a.  Travel                           4           5          6              6            21            -             21
b.  Other Operating Costs                                                  5            20                          20
8wb-Tbtal 2.                  9          10         11             11            41           -
Base Costs for B.                   9          45         81             46            41          140            181
TOTAL BASE COSTS_(A and B)            138         278        410            404          688           542          1,230
I/ This includes assistance for the formulation of a National Food and Nutrition Program
estimated at US$190,000 (US$120,000 local cost plus US$7c,0oo foreign expenditures).



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Salary Support for Project Director and Staff
Monthly                               US$ tooo
Rate       Number   Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Total
Project Director/Co-DirecI2!                           t 4       2.7         2.7        2.7         2.7        10.8
Secretariat
B&ecutive Secretary                  $350           1         4.2        4.2         4.2         4.2        16.8
Deputy Executive Secretary           $250           1         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0        12.0
Finance Officer                       $250          1         3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        12.0
Procurement Officer                   $250          1         3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        12.0
Staff Support                                                 2.2        2.2         2.2         2.2         8.8
Sub-Total (Secretariat)                                      15.4       15.4        15.4        15.4        61.6
Monitoring and Evaluation
Senior Analyst/Planner               $300           2         7.2         7.2        7.2        10.8/       32.4
Research Assistants                  $200           4         9.6         9.6        9.6         9.6        38.h
Support Staff                                                 3.1         3.1        3.1         3.5        12.8
Sub-Total (Monitoring and Evaluation)                        19.9       19.9        19.9        23.9        83.6
Total for Project Director and Staff                            38.0        38.0       38.0        42.0       156.0
2   Part-time work payment
/ Staff increases to 3 during 4th year
(D



ANNEX 12
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
US$ '000
Disbursements                Cumulative
Quarter Ending                  During Quarter               Disbursements
1977     June    30                            -                            -
Sept.   30                          48                           48
Dec.    31                          96                          144
1978     March   31                          192                          336
June    30                         148                          484
Sept.   30                         250                          734
Dec.    31                         350                         1084
1979     March   31                          800                         1884
June    30                         508                         2392
Sept.   30                        1100                         3492
Dec.    31                        1100                         4592
1980     March   31                         1100                         5692
June    30                         873                         6565
Sept.   30                        1200                         7765
Dec.    31                        1200                         8965
1981     March   31                         1200                        10165
June    30                         607                        10772
Sept.   30                         800                        11572
Dec.    31                        1100                        12672
1982     March   31                          328                        13000



ANX13
Page 1
INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPffET PROJECT
Schedule of Technieal Assistance
(In Man-Months)
Short-term      Long-term        Total
I.    CRDN
Research Specialist             12               -             12
Economist                        6               -              6
Community Nutritionists          6               -              6
SUB-TOTAL CRDN                24                             24
II.   FTDC
Program Advisor                  -              24             24
Equipment Specialists           36               -             36
Research Specialists            36                             36
SUB-TOTAL FTDC                72             24              96
III. NIPP
Advisor on Nutrition
Education Manual                 6               -              6
Training Consultant              -             10              10
Data Analyst                     8               -              8
Local Advisory Services         60              _              60
SUB-TOTAL NIPP                74             10              84
IV.  Nutrition Communication
Communication Specialist         -              12             12
Nutrition Education Advisor    35                -              35
Planning Consultant
SUB-TOTAL Nutrition           35             12              47
Communication
V.   Organization and Management
Project Management Advisor       -              24             24
Procurement Advisor              -              12             12
Planning Advisor                 -              24             24
Monitoring and Evaluation       84               -8
Research Coordinating
Committee                     30               _             30
Part-time Advisory Panel        34               -             3h
Assistance to Nutrition Unit
in Ministry of Agriculture   12              12              24
SUB-TOTAL Organization
and Management             ___             2_             228
TOTAL (I+II+III+IV+V)        361            118              7
Around 201 months are for internationally recruited advisors.



Page I
INDONESIA NUTRITION DIVILPMIFT PROJECT
Key Isalementation Actions
Action                             MAX4IIJIIJJ!AMJ[JS0 N  YlhA'MJf A                    -O              NID9
Orgamnization arnd Policy
1. Appointment of Project Director,
Director, NIPP Coordinator
and Project Manager
2. Recruit Key Staff for CRDN,
FTDC, NIPP
3. Recruit Project Management
Advisor
4~. Dr-aw up Program for
Recruitment of other
Consultants
5. Set up Research
Coordinating Board
6. Draw up NW?F Plans of
Operations for twmo Kabmipatans
7. Approval of plans of operation
for HIPP by Governiment
B. Selection of Kabupatens
in NIPP for Year 2
9. Training of NPOs/AN~POB
10. Review of NIPP
11. Decision o:
(a) Future Direction of NIPP
(b) Selection of new NIP?
Kabupatens
12 * Seminar on food storage
and processing
13. Policy decisions on food
storage programi
lIi. Dzpanded pilot program on
15. Development of technologyI
packages for village!
home gardens
16. Village/Home garden program                                                                    
17. Evaluation
(a) Setting up of evaluation
unit
(b) Studies and evaluation-----------------                                                         -     -
18. Preparation of national
program:
(a) First outline
(b) Discussions of outline
program
Cc) Finalization
Execution of Physical Project Comoone ti-
1 * Civil Works
(a) Complete engineering designs
for CRDN, FTDC/Nutrition
Academy
(b) Cosnplete tender documents
for buildings
(c) Tendering and contract award
2. ~~Mnt
(a) onplete tender documents
for furniture for buildings
(b) Cosplete tender documents
for specialized equipment as
required for buildings planned
for completion
Cc) Purchase of veh icles for
preliminary start_-un
Cd) Purchase of other v'ehicles
for project



INDONESIA NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
ProJect Implementation Schedule
J~~~ F         0 A   (N_ID]F_     F _ A H J8 IJ A   N D _            N_  F _ <       A S:ml J{lM   J MJ|A|SO s 0  F|X A
1. Center for Research end Develooment
Appointment of Director(Already C(bpete|
Selection and Appointsmenft of Division
Heads and Other Key Staff
Selection and Placement of Candidates
for MS/Pb.D.Training Abroad
Selection of Candidates for Domestic
Training (Already Completed)
Selection and Appointmenit of
Additional Staff for Various Divisions
Short Term Fellowships to Institutions
by Key Personnel
~a Research Planner Consutant
(b) Economist
(c) Community Nutritionist
Research Programs and Evaluation
2. Food 0TechnolOR   Devo22tnt CeInteTr
Appointment of Dlirector?/
Selection and  oneint ment ofs:
7a  Senior S-taff 
(b) Program Advisor
taSelection of aidates for
Training in Indonesia/a
(b) Selection of Candidates for
Long ']hrm Fellowships Abroad 
Selection and Recruitment of:
(a) Equipment Specialists
For Civil Works and Equiipment schedule see Annex 10 (Appendix 3).                            o
2JUntil- the buildings are completed and equipment is fully ready, the staff will work out o
the present faci-lities in IPB campus. The construrtion will be phased so that the Staff can
Start operating in buildings which are completed earlier and additional staff will be recruited
as more buildings become ready. The Director has been nominated.
~/Candidates presently undergoing training in Indonesia/abroad would be available in 19,77 and
1978 for appointment as Staff.






Ia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      140-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD12
<    "`HAILND                                                                                                                                                                                             NDONESIA
B.fl& ANNh                                                                                                                                                     PHILIPPI                                              NUTRITION   DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
Br4nS~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ 0~~~                 .7 ~~~~NUTRITION  INTERVENTtON  PILOT PROJECT AREAS
5   ob  Chino        ~~~Sea           PCRUNEI/ADD OISDDDFS
MAIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- 
SIOTISE                                         A~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A    L  Ml A      T   AONES
Cp"5~4GAPOOES  E                             /ft.fi-kM                   OI                                                                                                                 E
P.d..q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ RGD  ES                                                                                                                    .HLM/IRADEC
1~~  MA    C4T~~~~~T   A   N                     o~~~~~                                                                           LESS READ EDAlSUL
POStISTEIs   -                            , S~~~~~NSEITkp Ip   I                                                       UMOEEDERI-
i p(GSDGIflPO                                                                )                 kEAEN                          ULAWES                                                                                  0JOOIT
IffA AN  JIA YA 
N1DSTSGES          I   o'                                                                                                           S        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ nENIES
5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KEkENSA* N.TO $ .'  1L
10-~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
Z~~~~~,T-    21                KSAOONTA                                   C U C                         NC           409POSTO 
~~AAEIAOTU  OT                                         4ESESL                 Ban   do              Soa                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 1.    2d     00 ~.    5060 11
-T ly~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T-1,- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~           ~~                    ~E
lw                                               110-                                                          i2o. JAVA



