CONFORMED
LOAN NUMBER 1373 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Nutrition Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 14, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinefter called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOH" neans the Borrower's Ministry of Health, and
includes any successor in function thereto;
(b) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Culture, and includes any successor in function thereto;
(c) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, and
includes any successor in function thereto;
(d) "MTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Manpower, Trans-
migration and Cooperatives, and includes any successor in func-
tion thereto;


﻿- 3 -
(e) "MHA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs,
and includes any successor in function thereto;
(f) "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, and
includes any successor in function thereto;
(g) "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower's national development
planning agency;
(h) "CRDN" means Pusat Penelitian dan Pengembangan Gizi, the
Borrower's Center for Research and Development in Nutrition, estab-
lished and existing within MOH in accordance with Decree No.
114/MEN.KEs./XII/75 of the Borrower's Minister of Health;
(i) "FTDC" means Pusat Pengembangan Teknologi Pangan, the
Borrower's Food Technology Development Center at Bogor, to be
established as a part of the Borrower's Agricultural University of
Bogor within MOE;
(j) "AETE" means the Borrower's Agricultural Education,
Training and Extension Agency established and operating within
MOA pursuant to Presidential Decrees Nos. 44 and 45 of 1974
of the Borrower and in accordance with Chapter IX of Decree No.
190/Kpts/Org/5/1975 of the Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(k) "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture of the MOA;
(1) "FNU" means the Food. and Nutrition Unit established
within MOA in accordance with the Decree of the Borrower's
Minister of Agriculture No. 100/Kpts/OP/3/1975;


﻿14
(m) "NIIHOH" means Lembaga Nasional Hygiene Perusahaan dan
Kesehatan KerdJa, the Borrower's National Institute for Industrial
Hygiene and Occupational Health, established and existing under
the General Directorate of Occupational Health within MTC, in ac-
cordance with Decree No. 153 of 1969 dated August 27, 1969 of the
Borrower's Minister of Manpower;
(n) "Academy" means Akademi Gizi, the Borrower's Academy
of Nutrition at Jakarta, established and existing within MOH in
accordance with Decree No. 1190/Um/Pend. dated June 14, 1957 of
the Borrower's Minister of Health, as amended by Decree No. 105/Pend
dated December 27, 1966 of the Borrower's Minister of Health;
(o) "NIPP" means a Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project,
comprising a package of coordinated activities intended to bring
about a direct improvement in the nutritional status of vulnerable
target groups;
(p) "Research Coordinating Committee" means the Committee
established pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(q) "Project Director" means the person who is designated
to be responsible for overall coordination of the implementation
of the Project;
(r) "Project Co-Director" means any of the persons appointed
as Co-Director in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;


﻿-5-
(s) "Project Manager" means the person appointed within
MOH to direct and coordinate the implementation of the Project,
subject to the overall supervision of the Project Director;
(t) "NIPP Coordinator" means the person appointed in MOH
to administer, at the national level, Parts B.1 and B.2 of the
Project;
(u) "Kabupaten" means an administrative subdivision of a
Province of the Borrower; and
(v) "Governing Decrees" means any of: (i) Presidential
Instruction No. 14 of 1974, dated September 13, 1974, establishing
a Ministerial Committee responsible for coordinating and implementing
nutrition programs on a national scale; (ii) Decree of the Borrower's
Minister of State for People's Welfare No. 03/KEP/M/KESRA/II/1975,
dated February 12, 1975, establishing a Technical Commission to
provide technical support to the Ministerial Committee; and (iii)
Decree of the Borrower's Minister of Health No. 092/S.J./II/1977,
dated February 10, 1977, providing for the establishment of key
positions for the implementation of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expend-
itures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shel establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-7-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn rnd outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate nutritional, agricultural, administrative, economic, en-
gineering and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
mutually agree, the organization and management for the Project
shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications and experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of
any person proposed to be appointed to the positions of Project
Director, Project Co-Director, Project Manager and NIPP Coordinator,
prior to the time any such appointment is made.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 10 -
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 3.05, except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise mutually agree, the Project
Director shall be required to prepare and furnish to the Bank
semi-annual reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, regarding the progress of the Project, including inter
alia civil works, procurement, recruitment and training of key
personnel.
(d) The accounts of all agencies of the Borrower participat-
ing in the implementation of the Project or any part thereof,
relating to the Project, which are to be kept pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, shall be audited each
fiscal year in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, the Bank shall be
furnished with certified copies of such accounts for such year as
so audited and the report of such audit by such auditors of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested. Both separate and consolidated accounts, as referred to
in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, shall be so furnished.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.07. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall, (i) by August 1, 1977,
establish and thereafter maintain, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, a Research Coordinating Committee (Panitia
Koordinasi Penelitian), to facilitate coordination of the nutrition
related research programs being carried out by various institutes
of the Borrower, and (ii) submit to the Bank annual progress reports
on such programs in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall, with respect to the NIPP
program to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project, (i) sub-
mit to the Bank not later than August 1, 1977, the plans of opera-
tions for the first two Kabupatens to be served by the NIPP program
for approval, prior to commencing implementation of such plans;
(ii) carry out a review of the NIPP program at the end of the
second year of the NIPP program, with a view to determining any
necessary changes in program direction and content; and (iii)
select new Kabupatens to be served by the NIPP program in accordance
with criteria established in consultation with the Bank, it being
further agreed that the third and fourth Kabupatens shall be
selected not later than October 1, 1977 and the remaining three
Kabupatens not later than August 1, 1978.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall in consultation with the
Bank carry out a review of the home/village garden component of
the NIPP program at the end of the third year of the NIPP program
with a view to determining whether this component should be ore-
pared for more general replication.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall provide or cause to be
provided through DGFCA, as and when required, no less than 10
additional extension staff for the home/village garden component
of the NIPP program (Part B.2 of the Project).


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circurustances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
subsection (a) of this Section 4.02, the Borrower shall, (i) re-
quire that all of its agencies participating in the implementation
of any part of the Project, maintain separate accounts in respect
thereof; and (ii) establish and maintain within MOH, a project
accounting unit responsible, inter alia, for consolidating the
accounts maintained under (i) above.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pur-
suant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CRDN or FTDC or the FNU or for the suspension of all or
part of the operations of CRDN or FTDC or the FNU and alternative
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out of
their respective research and work programs under the Project
have not been made; and
(b) The Governing Decrees or any provision thereof shall
have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied or waived, so as
to affect: (i) the carrying out of the Project; or (ii) the per-
formance by the Borrower of any of its other obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date June 15, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE              DITJMON
Jakarta                       46415
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                6,ooo,o0          80%
(2) Vehicles and equipment     3,000,000
(a) directly imported                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) imported equipment                       65%
procured locally
(c) locally manufactured                     95%
equipment procured
following interna-
tional competitive
bidding
(d) locally assembled                        40%
vehicles procured
following prudent
shopping
(3) Consultants' services      3,000,000          100%
and fellowships, and
salaries of local
experts for staff of
Project Director
(4) Unallocated                1,000,000
TOTAL     13,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 may
be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1975.


﻿- 22 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main purposes of the Project are (i) to strengthen and
expand the existing nucleus of personnel and institutions in
Indonesia to enhance the Borrower's capacity for formulation and
execution of nutrition programs, operational research, manpower
training and monitoring and evaluation in nutrition; (ii) to de-
velop nationally replicable and cost effective measures to improve
the nutritional status of malnourished target groups, through
field level action programs and their evaluation; and (iii) to
assist in the formulation and the implementation of a more compre-
hensive food and nutrition program on a national scale.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Support for Institutions
(1) Strengthening of CRDN through provision of additional
staff, training, technical assistance, equipment and
expansion of physical facilities;
(2) Strengthening of FTDC through provision of staff,
training, technical assistance, equipment and physical
facilities; and
(3) Strengthening of planning, coordination and evaluation
of nutrition activities through provision of technical
assistance to MOH, MOE, and MDA.


﻿-2)4 -
Part B:   Direct Nutrition Action Programs
(1) A Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP) which in-
tegrates nutritional, educational, agricultural and health
activities and selective food supplementation to vulnerable
target groups in each of seven Kabupatens, reaching in
the aggregate about 180 villages;
(2) A program to increase the production of nutritious vege-
tables and fruits in home/village gardens through provi-
sion of improved seeds, development of model garden pack-
ages and intensification of extension efforts in villages
selected for the NIPP program;
(3) A program to improve on-farm and village-level storage,
including establishment in villages selected for the
NIPP program which lack storage facilities, of small-
scale storage units with an aggregate storage capacity
of about 300 tons; and
(4) An iron supplementation program to tackle nutritional
anemia in a selected number of plantations with a view
to developing a national program to cover all government
and privately owned plantations.
Part C:   Education and Training
(1) Testing the efficiency of alternative nutrition communi-
cation methods to bring about desirable changes in nutri-
tion behavior;


﻿- 25 -
(2) Upgrading and expanding the training of nutritionists in
the Academy by provision of equipment, staff, training,
technical assistance, and necessary physical facilities;
and
(3) Improving the training of agricultural extentionists by
upgrading teachers and trainers and by introducing
nutrition in the curriculum of the basic training
centers and the secondary agricultural schools of AETE.
Part D:   Preparation of a National Food and Nutrition Program
Preparation of a national food and nutrition program
which takes into account inter alia: (i) the results of the
evaluation of the various nutrition actions taken under the
preceding Parts of the Project and their cost effectiveness
and replicability; (ii) manpower availability; and (iii) the
managerial skills and institutions developed as a result of
the Project.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1981
through   June 15, 1996                      419,ooo
On December 15, 1996                              430,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                   6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                   7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the General In-
troduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding.
2.   Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more, and for which a domestic preference is intended
to be granted in accordance with Part D of this Schedule, shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guide-
lines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $1,000,000 may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following local advertising, without restriction on for-
eign bidders, and in accordance with the Borrower's normal pro-
curement procedures.


﻿- 29 -
2.   Contracts for the supply of equipment and furniture, estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding following local advertising, and
in accordance with the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
3.   Up to 10 vehicles may be purchased locally after prudent shop-
ping including wherever possible the solicitation of at least three
price quotations.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) cus-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be ex-
cluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 30 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 31 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category 1 of th: table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment and to be procured in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification apply-
ing also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of
the data for qualification, such information, including details of
ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according to
the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by
the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a
domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate
the preference and the method that will be followed in the eva-
luation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿- 32 -
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
.edure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic prefer-
ence under Part D.1 above and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before
the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 33 -
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and all contracts for the
supply of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 3)4 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 5
Organization and Management
1. Participating Ministries
The respective components of the Project will be implemented
within the existing organizational structure of Government, as
follows:
Ministry/Agency Primarily
Project Ccmponent               Responsible for Implementation
Part A (1)                               MOH/CRDN
Part A (2)                               MOE/FTDC
Part A (3)                               MOH, MOE and MOA
Part B (1)                               MOH and MHA
Part B (2)                               MOA
Part B (3)                              MOE/FTDC and MOA
Part B (4)                               MTC, MOA and MOH
Part C (1)                              MOH
Part C (2)                              MOH
Part C (3)                               MOA/AETE
Part D                                  MOH, MOA and BAPPENAS


﻿- 36 -
2.   Project Director
(a) Overall management and coordination of the implementation
of the Project shall be the responsibility of a Project Director.
The first Project Director shall be the Director General of
Community Health, MOH. The Project Director shall be assisted
by at least the following full-time staff, all with appropriate
qualifications and experience: (i) a senior administrator, who
shall be designated as the Project Manager; (ii) a deputy Project
Manager; (iii) a finance officer; and (iv) a procurement officer.
The Project Director shall be further assisted, under terms of
reference mutually acceptable to the Borrover and the Bank, by a
management advisor (for about two years, on a full-time basis),
a procurement advisor, and planning consultants.
(b) The Project Director shall be responsible (inter alia)
for: (i) monitoring the progress of the Project; (ii) ensuring
interministerial and agency coordination in the implementation
of the respective components of the Project; (iii) ensuring
adequate budgetary provisions for the Project in the budget requests
of the respective ministries and agencies of the Borrover responsi-
ble for the implementation of the respective components of the
Project; (iv) coordinating the flow of funds to the respective
agencies; and (v) submitting withdrawal requests to the Bank under
Section 2.02 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, in respect of
all components of the Project.


﻿- 37 -
3.   Monitoring and Evaluation
To assist the Project Director in the monitoring and evalua-
tion of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain
a separate monitoring and evaluation unit, reporting directly
to the Project Director, which unit shall be staffed, on a full-
time basis, by at least two qualified and experienced professionals.
4.   Co-Directors
To ensure coordination among the several ministries of the
Borrower participating in the implementation of the Project, the
Borrower shall appoint three Co-Directors, respectively from MOE,
MOA and MHA, who shall work in close cooperation with the Project
Director in identifying and solving problems of interministerial
coordination.
5.   CRDN and FTDC
CRDN and FTDC will continue to be administered by their
respective Directors, assisted by financial and procurement staff.
Both institutes will cooperate closely and coordinate their work
as required with ARD, DGFCA and AETE.
6.   Nutrition Research
For the purpose of coordinating the nutrition-related
research programs being carried out by the various institutes
of the Borrower, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a
Research Coordinating Committee in accordance with the provisions


﻿- 38 -
of Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement, which Committee will be
chaired in rotation by the Directors of FTDC and CRDN, and which
Committee will include as members inter alia representatives from
BAPPENAS, MOA (including, without limitation, DGFCA, AETE, ARD,
and the Agricultural University of Bogor), MH, and MOI.
T.   NIPP
The NIPP component (Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project) will be
administered:
(i) at the national le, l, by a Coordinator (the NIPP
Coordinator) within MOH reporting directly to the
Project Director, assisted by at least one full-
time nutrition program officer (NPO) and three full-
time assistant NPOs, all with appropriate qualifi-
cations and experience;
(ii) at the Provincial level, through the respective
Provincial Badan Perbaikan Gizi Daerah (BPGD)
(Nutrition Improvement Coordinating Committee),
under the administrative responsibility of the
respective Provincial Governors; and
(iii) at the Kabupaten level, through the respective
Kabupaten BPGDs, under the administrative respon-
sibility of the respective Bupatis (Chief Executive
Officer of the Kabupaten).


﻿- 39 -
8. Anemia Prevention and Control
The anemia prevention and control component (Part BA of the
Project) will be administered in the field by NIIHOH through its
respective regional institutes (RILHOHs) under the NTW, in close
collaboration with MOA (Directorate General of Plantations) and
MDH (NIPP Coordinator).
9. Training and Nutrition Education
The training and nutrition education components (Part C of
the Project) will be coordinated by the Chairman of the Center
for Manpower Education and Training in MOH.
10. National Food and Nutrition Program
The preparation of a national food and nutrition program
(Part D of the Project) will be the responsibility of the Project
Director, assisted by the staff of the monitoring and evaluation
unit, in close collaboration with CRDN, FTDC, the planning bureaus
of MOH and MDA, the FNU, and BAPPENAS.


