Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12529-ME
STArF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MARCH 11, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12529 ME
Type: SAR
Country Department II
HL'man Resources Operarions Division
Latin America and the Cribbean Regional Office
This document has a resicted disMtibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its content may no otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authoroizaon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   New Peso (N$)
USS1.00        =   3.12 New Pesos (Feb. 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ANAM National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization (Acuerdo Nacional para la
Modernizacion de la Educaci6n Bdsica)
CAPFCE Federal School Construction Agency (Comite Administrador del Programa Federal de
Construcci6n de Escuelas)
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CONAFE National Council for Educationai Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo)
at SEP
CONALITEG  National Free Textbook Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Libro de Texto Gratuito)
CONAPO National Population Council (Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n)
COPLADE State Planning Council (Consejo de Planificaci6n del Estado)
DGEI General Directorate for Indigenous Education (Direcci6n General de Eaucaci6n Indigena)
at SEP
DGEIR General Directorate for Evaluation (Direcci6n General de Evaiuaci6n, Incorporaci6n y
Revalidaci6n) at SEP
DGPPP General Directorate for Planning, Programming and Budgeting (Direcci6n General de
Planeaci6n, Programaci6n, y Presupuesto) at SEP
LGE General Education Law (Ley General de Educaci6n)
MIS Management Information Systew
NAFIN  National Financing Agency (Nccional Financiera, S.N.C.)
PAM Teacher Training Program (Programa de Actualizaci6n del Magisterio) at SEP
PARE Bank's first Primary Education Project, Ln. 3407-ME, 1991 (Programa para Abatir el
Rezago Educativo)
PAREB Second Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n
Bdsica)
PCU Project Coordinating Unit at the Federal level in CONAFE
PME Education Modernization Program (Programa para la Modernizaci6n Educativa, 1989-
1994)
PRODEI Bank's Initial Education Project, Ln. 3518-ME, 1992 (Proyecto para el Desarrollo de la
Educaci6n Inicial)
SCEP Servicios Coordinados de Educaci6n Pzdblica, former SEP delegation in the states
essentially replaced by SEE
SEB Undersecretariat of Basic Education (Subsecretaria de Educaci6n Bdsica) at SEP
SEE State Education Entity (State Secretariat of Public Education or equivalent organization)
SEP Federal Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n P7blica)
SHCP Federal Finance and Public Credit Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pablico)
SNTE National Teachers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Educaci6n)
SOLIDARIDAD National Solidarity Program (Programa Nacional de Solidaridad)
SOPE State Secretariat of Public Works (Secretaria de Obras Pfiblicas del Estado)
SPCU Project Coordinating Unit at the State level located in SEEs
TAC Technical Advisory Committee
TWP Teaching Career Program (Programa de la Carrera Magisterial) at SEP
UPE Education Publications Unit (Unidad de Publicaci6n Educativa) at SEP



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND PRPMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORr
TABLE OF CONTENS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................
I. THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT .1
H. THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM .             ............3...............  3
A. Overview.                                                                3
R Issues in Primaiy Education.                                              4
Quality .....                                                        4
Efficiency.                                                          9
EquitY .12
C. Goverment Strategy for the Education Sector .13
D. Bank Role and Experience in the Education Sector .15
E. Lessons Learned from Past Operations .16
m THE PROJECT .20
A. Project Concept and Objectives .20
B. Project Areas and Target Population .20
C. Project Components .21
D. Project Description .23
Component A. Human Resoumces Development .23
Component B. Educational Material Resources .25
Subcomponent B 1. Teaching Materials and Student
Educational Packages .25
Subcomponent R2. Reading Corners .. ............... 25
Subcomponent B.3. Textbooks and Educational Materials for
Indigenous Education .................. : ..... 26
Subcomponent B.4. Improvement of Physical Infrastnucture .27
Component C. Institutionl Strengthening .29
Subcomponent C. 1. Management Capacity .29
Subcomponent C.2. Teacher Incentives .32
Subcomponent C.3. Improvement of the Supervision System       32
Subcomponent C.4. Books and Materials Distnbution System      33
Subcomponent C.S. Project Administration .34
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited Mexico in November, 1993.
The ndssion was composed of Mmes./Messrs. Antonio Gomes Pereira (mission leader), Eduardo
Wlez. Manuel Vra, John Innes, Rosaria Iroza, Robert Etheredge "LA2HR), Silvia Elena Arevalo,
Carlos Heymans and Maria Elena Anderson (consultangs). Messrs/Mme. ithn Nguyen, Rosita V
Esnuda, KWin Rost (L42HR), and Rebecca Cary (consultant) contributed to the report at
headquarters. Peer reviewers are Mwchelle Riboud (EC4IIR) and Luis Pisani (LA4HR). Messrs.
Edilberro L. Segura and Kye Rbo Lee are the Department Director and Division Chief respectively,
for this operation.
Ths document has a restricted distnbution and m  be used by recdpients only in the perfornwn  of icir
official duties. its contnts maw not othevws be disclosedwithout Word Ba  authoizadion.



- ii'-
IV. PROJECT COST, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITS . ....... 35
A. Project Costs and Finaning ............................... 35
B. Procurement ......................................... 37
C. Disbursements ....................................... 40
D. Accounts and Audits .................................... 41
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION ..................... 42
A. Project Implementation ............................  ..... 42
Project Preparation  .............................. 42
Project Readiness and Implementation ...........       ............ 42
Project Monitoring .............................. 43
Annual Implementation Reviews  ........    ............. .              43
Mid-Term Review  ................................. 44
B. Project Supervision           ...................... 44
C. Project Launch Seminar  ...... ........................ 44
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                              ..                        45
A. Project Benefits  .    ..................................... 45
B. Impact on Women ...................................... 45
C. Environmental Inpact ................................... 45
D. Project Risks ......................................... 46
E. Program Objective Category .........          ...................... 46
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ................ 46
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators           12. Strengthening of Planning and Policy
2. Primary Education Efficiency                    Analysis
Indicators                                 13. Terms of Reference for Process
3.  Educational Expenditures                       Evaluation & Information Systems
4.  Government Policy Letter                   14. Terms of Reference for Studies
5.  Decentralization of Education Budget       15. Teacher Incentives by Project State
6.  Marginality Ranking and Project            16. Project Management and Flow of
Areas                                          Funds
7.  Indigenous Populations                     17. Costs and Financing
8. Participating Municipalities and            18. Project Disbursements
Beneficiaries by Project State             19. Monitoring Indicators
9.  Financial Implications of Extension of     20. Amnnal and Mid-Term Reviews
Basic Education                            21. Supervision Plan
10. Teacher Training                           22. Project Implementation Schedule
11. Physical Infrastructure and                23. List of Documents in Project File
Distribution Network
MAP - IBRD No. 25451



MEXICO
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
LAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Nacional Financiera, S.N. C (NAFIN)
Gumrantor:           United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:       The Federal Education Secretariat (SEP) through the National
Council for Educational Development at SEP (CONAFE), and State
Education Entities (SEEs) in ten Mexican states (Campeche,
Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Puebla, San Luis Potosi,
Tabasco, Veracruz, and Yucathin). In addition, the four states
(Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero, and Hidalgo) assisted under the first
Primary Education Project (Ln. 3407-ME, 1991) would also benefit
from the management training program under the proposed project's
Institutional Strengthening component.
Amount:              US$412.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project              The project would improve primary school students' academic
Objectives:          achievement levels and reduce the high repetition and dropout rates
within ten of the country's poorest states, contribute to raising the
human capital level, redressing some of the country's social and
economic imbalances as part of the Government's social
compensatory program. These objectives would be achieved
through: (a) training teachers and administrators; (b) providing
classroom-tested educational materials for both teachers and
students, including specific materials for indigenous populations; and
(c) strengthening the institutional capacity of the education system,
particularly at the state level, to carry out its mandate within a
decentralized system. The project would further benefit the four
states being assisted under the first Primary Education Project by
including their senior-level officials under the project's management
training program.
Project              The project consists of three major components: the Human
Description:         Resources Development Component (17.5 percent of total project
costs) would provide in-service training and assistance to upgrade
the skills of primary school teachers, principals, and supervisors,
emphasizing the role of principals and supervisors in providing
pedagogical assistance to teachers in classroom teaching. The
Educational M ial Resources Component (52.5 percent of total



- iv -
project costs) would: (a) provide educational materials for both
teachers and students; (b) supply classroom library and reference
books and promote their use; (c) design and deliver bilingual
textbooks and materials for indigenous schools; and (d) rehabilitate,
replace, or build urgently needed educational facilities to replace
inadequate schools and meet new enrollment demand. The
Institutonal Strengthening Component (30.0 percent of total
project costs) would: (a) strengthen education management capacity
at both central and state levels by (i) providing management training
for planning and policy analysis, (ii) installing project monitoring,
evaluation, and information systems, (iii) conducting education
studies to prepare future investments at the preschool and secondary
education levels, and (iv) supporting project promotion and diffuision
activities; (b) provide incentives for teachers to work in remote,
indigenous, or hardship areas; (c) improve the supervision system;
and (d) strengthen the textbooks and materials distribution system.
The project would be coordinated by CONAFE at the central level
and implemented by SEEs, which would be responsible for the
delivery, operation, and management of educational services at the
state level.
Project              By raising children's cognitive achievement as well as their
Benefits:            probability of completing the primary education cycle, the project
benefits would consist of a higher rate of human capital
accumulation, contributing to economic development. Due to the
project's targeted nature within the Government's social
compensatory program, project benefits would also include a more
equal distribution of economic opportunities amOng Mexican
children, especially for underserved indigenous populations. The
project would improve the quality of primary education through in-
service training of teachers and administrators and enhance the
system's efficiency through investments in institutional
strengthening, thus contributing to better allocation and increased
productivity of human resources in the sector and helping meet the
challenges of a recently decentralized education system. Altogether,
benefits would accrue to approximately 1.5 million children, 53,000
teachers, and 1,140 administators. Because half of the students
would be girls, secondary benefits would include lower ferdtlity and
improved health status and educational attainment of their children.
Project              The main project risks are associated with possible delays in
Risks:               project execution due to the slow improvement of institutional
capacity of implementing agents at the state and, where applicable,
community levels. The risk of weak institutional capacities is
addressed under the project through technical assistance in key areas
of management such as planning, information, and evaluation. The
project would benefit from CONAPE's experience at the central
level, which is curny implementing the first Primaty Education



- v -
Project as well as the Initial Education Project (Ln. 3518-ME, 1992)
and would easily tasfer successfl operational expertise as well as
familiarity with Bank processes and procedures to the proposed
project. At the state level, SEEs would have had two years of
operating a decentralized educational system, by the project's
effectiveness. At the local level, participation of School Councils
(formed under the 1993 General Education Law) would benefit from
the experience of similar community organizations already operating
in different sectors and other Bank-financed projects. The risks
identified dunng early project preparation posed by the disparity in
salaries for federal and state teachers (who would now all belong to
the state system) have been practically eliminated: salanes have
been leveled in all but three of the participating staves, and these
three states are scheduled to complete this process in 1994.
Pbverty Catgory:     The project would support a program of targeted interventions.
The project would support the national policy of compensation for
regional disparities in education. Project interventions would be
targeted not only to ten of the poorest states but also to the poorest
regions and most indigenors areas therein. The proposed project
and first Primary Education Project together would cover the 14
poorest states in the county (out of a total of 32 states). Major
urban areas within the selected regions have been excluded.



- vi -
Project Cost Summary
Local    Foreign    Total
---US$ million-
Human Resources Development                    99.8       2.6      102.4
Educational Material Resources
Teaching Materials & Student Packages        85.6      85.6      171.2
Reading Corners                               4.8       2.1        6.9
Indigenous Education                          3.9       2.0        5.9
Infrastructure Improvement                   93.8      24.7      118.5
188.1     114.4     302.5
Institutional Strengthening
Management Capacity                          11.6       5.3       16.9
Teacher Incentives                           97.5       0.0       97.5
Improvement of Supervision System            16.6       3.4       20.0
Books & Materials Distribution System         7.6       2.8       10.4
Project Administration                       26.6        1.0      27.6
159.9      12.5     172.4
BASE COST                                    447.8     129.5     577.3
Physical Contingencies                         5.0       1.4        6.4
Price Contingencies                           26.3       6.7       33.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST'                           479.1                616.7
Financing Plan
LoAl    Foreign     Total
-TS$ million-
Federal Govenunent                            204.7       0.0      204.7
IBRD                                          274.4      137.6     412.0
Total
Estimated Disbursements Tlmetable
IBRI) F1scal Year
1994    199S    1996    1997    1998    1999
Annual                    30.0'  52.0    88.0   112.0    80.0    50.0
Cumulative                30.0    82.0   170.0   282.0   362.0   412.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Y Includes taxes and duties estimated at about US$44.3 million.
' Includes Special Account deposit of US$25.0 million and retroactive financing of up to US$6.0 million
for eligible expenditures incurred on or after Cctober 31, 1993.



- vii -
BASIC DATA SHEET
Mexico     Year
A.   General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                 3,030      1991
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                    1,958      1993
Population Estimate (Millions)                       83.3       1991
Urban Population (% of Total)                         73        1991
Population Projection, Year 2000                     99.0       1992
B.   Social Indicators
Crude death rate                                      5.4       1990
Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)          1.9       1990
Total Ferility Pate                                   3.2       1991
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)        36.0       1991
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                     70.0       1991
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of persons 15 and over)     11.8       1991
C     Education Statisfics
Primary (Net)(Grades 1-6)(%)                         98.0       1991
Lower Secondary (Grades 7-9)(%)                      58.0       1991
Total Primary Enrollment (millions)                  14.4       1991
Federal (%)                                        71.i       1991
State (%)                                          22.5       1991
Private (%)                                         6.4       1991
Primary School and Efficiency Data
Number of Teachers (thousands)                     479.6      1991
Student/Teacher Ratio                              30.0       1991
Incomplete Schools (% of all primary schools)      14.9       1991
Unitary Schools (% of all primary schools)         22.7       1991
Repetition Rate (%)                                 9.8       1992
Dropout Rate (%)                                    4.6       1991
Completion Rate (%)                                58.1       1991
Education Expenditure Data
Total Public Education Spending (% of GDP)          4.3       1991
Federal Education Spending (% of Total
Public Education Expenditures)                    82.8      1991
Federal Education Spending (% of Total
Federal Exrenditures)                             9.4        1991
Federal Pri- -,' Education Spending (% of
Federal Education Expenditures Among Levels)      39.8      1991
Sources: Social Indicators of Development, 1991-92; INEGI Censo de 1990; World Development
Report, 1993; SEP and Bank staff stimaes, 1993.



viii -
ElUCATION GLOSSARY
Completion rate          For six-ye-r primary education, the ratio between the number of
students r sJing grade 6 in a given year T and the number of
students entering grade 1 in year T-6, as a close approximation
of the percentage of students of a given cohort to complete six-
year primary school.
Dropout rate             Percentage of students who abandon the system without
completing the education cycle, e.g., primary school.
Educational attainment   Number of formal school years achieved by a student.
Educational achievement   Magnitude achievement in any subject area, generally measured
on the basis of national curriculum learning objectives.
Enrollment ratio         Ratio of total enrollment in a given school cycle (e.g., primary)
to the population in the corresponding age group.
Incomplete school        Primary school with fewer than the six official primary
education grades.
Net enrollment rate      Percentage of children of a given age group enrolled in their
corresponding grade level.
Promotion rate           Percentage of the students enrolled in a given grade who enroll
in the next higher grade the following year.
Repetition rate          Percentage of the students enrolled in a certain grade who are
not promoted to the next grade and who therefore enroll again
in the same grade the following year.
Transition rate          Percentage of the students completing one school cycle (e.g.,
primary) who enroll in the first grade of the next upper cycle
(e.g., secondary) the following year.
Unitary school           Multigrade school with a single teacher (see Incomplete School).



MEXICO
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORr
I. THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTE
1.1.  Over the past seven years, Mexico has consistently implemented a highly successful
economic reform program buttressed by macroeconomic stabilization policies which reduced
inflation from over 105 percent in 1986 to less than 10 percent in November 1993, reversing
the decline in economic growth from a negative 3.8 percent to a positive 2.6 percent over the
same period, thereby restoring confidence and extnml creditworthiness in the Mexican
economy. A far-reaching trade liberalization process has opened the economy to
internatonal competition. The ongoing process of privatization, aiming to enhance domesuc
economic efficiency, has resulted in the sale or closure of over two-thirds of state
enterprises. More recently, reforms have been initiated in the agricultua  sector, and even
the communal farming ownership system, the ejido, is being restructured. Further
liberalization of the Mexican economy through the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) with the United States and Canada will represent an unprecedented integration of
large economies at very different stages of development. This rapid assimilation into the
world marketplace has increased the competitive pressure on domestic industrial sectors, and
Mexico appears determir- I to upgrde its labor force level as a prerequisite to take full
advantage of these econo, dc opporuities for sustined growth.
1.2.  The stabilization program has highlighted issues in social development Despite its
macroeconomic achievements, Mexico's potential growth is stdl constained by relatively low
levels of human capital accumulation and widespread poverty. The illiteracy rate for the
adult population is still at 12.4 percent, higher than the rates for Argentina, Costa Rica,
Chile, and Venezuela. The average number of years of schooling for persons aged 25 and
over is 6.5, which is lower than those of Chile (7.5) and Colombia (7.1). The average
primary education repetition rate for Mexico is 9.1 percent (Annexes 1 & 2). The bulk of
unemployment is composed of young individuals with a low level of education, and about 20
percent of unemployed males have not completed primary education. An analysis of the
determinants of unemployment in Mexico reveals that the probability of being unemployed
decreases significantly with age and with education level. The impact of education as an
explanatory variable for workers' income is twice as high as that of any other examined
variable. Consequently, Mexico's capacity to compete in the international market will hinge
on its ability to harness an educated and skilled labor force, increase the productivity of its
workers, adopt modern production processes and technologies, and develop new skldls as a
more diversified structure of labor demand unfolds The economics of education have
repeatedly suggested that primary education is the cornerstone for a modernized human
capital stock.



-2 -
1.3.  The continuing inadequacies in human resources are caused in part by poverty, and in
turn they contribute to the perpetuation of poverty.Y' A 1991 Bank study summarizes the
incidence of poverty in Mexico as follows: (a) 19.5 percent of the population live't in
extreme poverty (i.e., with a per capita income below US$360 per annum in 1984 prices);
(b) 76.6 percent of the extreme poor are located in rural areas; (c) 37 percent of the rural
population in Mexico are classified as extremely poor; and (d) the extreme poor have large
families, the highest dependency ratios, and the lowest educational levels.2' Real per capita
incomes in the richer (mainly northern) states are more than twice those in the poorer
(mainly southern) states. Given that labor is the principal asset of the poor, improvement in
the provision and quality of education represents a key mechanism for reducing inequality
and lowering the number of individuals living in absoiute poverty. The retums to schooling,
however measured, have demonstrated that more and better schooling is an important policy
tool for poverty alleviation, through increased productivity and income, and for non-
economic success. Basic education, by conveying the skills of reasoning, communication,
and numeracy, enables workers to interact more efficiently, follow instructions better, and
complete increasingly complex tasks, which are crucial for job performance, workplace and
community participation, and overall social advancement.
1.4.  The severe curtailment of public investment in the 1980s and the recent liberalization
process have created a need for investment in human resources to support continued
economic growth. The Government has a clear perception of social needs and is assigning
high priority to the development of human resources through investments in education,
particularly at the primary level. Full success of the adjustment program requires policies
L.at are effective in promoting a more equal distribution of gains and opportunities of
macroeconomic reforms. Through improved basic schooling, a more capable labor force will
be developed, which will contribute to offset regional imbalances and make more Mexicans
active beneficiaries of development. In pursuit of this strategy, the Govermnent of Mexico
asked for, and the Bank supported, a Primary Education Project (PRogmma para Abatir el
Rezago Educativo, PARE, Ln. 3407-MIE, 1991) with a total investnent of US$352 million in
four of the poorest states. In 1992, the Government sought and the Bank approved an Initial
Education Project (PRODEI, Ln. 3518-ME, 1992) for the ten poorest states, including the
four in PARE, with an investment of US$115 million. In 1993, the Government asked for a
second major follow-up investment in primary education for the rnext ten poorest and
educationally least developed states.3' The Bank started project preparation in February and
appraised it in October/November. This report analyzes and supports the proposed Second
Primary Education Project, Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Basica, PAREB.
Behrman, J. The Action of Human Resources and Poverty on One Another. Washington, D.C.: The
World Bank, 1990.
21 World Bank, Mexico in TIansition: Towards a New Role for the Public Setor, Washington, D.C.:
The World Bank, 1991.
31 The first Primary Education Project, PARE, covered the states of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero, and
Hidalgo. According to the composite index of marginality used for targeting purposes (Annex 6),
Hidago is actually the I0th most disadvanaged state but was selected under PARE (1991) to maximize
previous social sector imNestments in the same four states. The report will refer to the ten proposed
proect states as the "next poorest" as a matter of convention.



-3 -
H. THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. Overview of Sectoral Organization and Achievements
2.1.   Since 1950, Mexico has made great strides in increasing both the access to and the
quality of public education: adult illiteracy has decreased from 40 percent to 12 percent; the
number of schools has tripled, the number of teachers has quintupled, and school enrollments
have increased sevenfold as the total population increased only threefold. By 1980, 25
percent of children aged 4-5 attended preschool, 91 percent of children aged 6-14 attended
primary school, and the enrollment rate in lower secondary school reached 48 percent. By
1992, 68 percent of children aged 4-5 had access to preschool education and net enrollment
rates at the primary and lower secondary levels reached 98 percent and 58 percent,
respectively. In 1992, total primary school enrollment (grades 1-6) was 14.8 million
children, attended to by a network of 88,918 primary schools and about 510,800 teachers
(about half the 1.1 million teachers), or an average of 29 students per teacher (Table 1), a
substantial improvement over the 45 students per teacher ratio in 1970. In July 1993, the
length of the school year was increas,d from 187 to 200 days, to be enforced by all states as
part of the General Education Law (LGE) (paras. 2.18 & 2.32-2.38).
Ahble 1. Mexican School System - 1992/1993
Students          Teachers
No. (000s} |    %         (OOOs)    Institutions
IInitial   _    r       117.9         0.5         3.3 _1,495
Preschool             1,858.9        11.2        114.3      51,554
Basic                19,031.3        74.7       748.5      108,950
Primary            14,828.2        58.2        510.8      88,918
Secondary           4,203.1 |     _16.5              __237.7  20_032
Upper Secondary       2,177.2         8.5        151.0      6,833
Higher Education      1,306.7         5.1        138.8      2,239
btal   25,492.0         100.0      1,155.9     171,071
2.2.   The formal education system in Mexico includes two-year preschool, nine years of
mandatory basic education (recently established by integrating the six-year primary education
and three-year lower secondary education cycles, para. 2.36), three or four additional years
of secondary education, and undergraduate and graduate university programs. A well-
designed and mainly non-formal initial education (ages 0 through 3) program precedes
preschool. Of a total enrollment of 25.5 million students at all education levels in 1992/93,
57 percent were enrolled at the primary level (gades 1-6). Post-basic education starts at the
upper secondary level, leading to either the liberal arts baccalaureate (80 percent of level
enrollment) or the vocational track. Higher education lasts from three to six years,
depending on the career pursued, and the universities have a semi-autonomous relationship
with the Federal Education Secretariat (SEP). The public sector provides educational
services for 90 percent of total enrollment.



-4 -
2.3. In May 1992, the Government tansferred the management and operation of all initial
(ages 0-3), preschool (ages 4-5), primary (grades 1-6), special, and lower secondary
education (grades 7-9) and of teacher training institutions to the states (para. 2.34). All the
facilities along with technical and administrative staff were transferred to the states with a
corresponding budget of N$20.3 billion (US$6.6 billion) for 1993. Currently, SEP maintains
direct responsibility only for the education system in the Federal District and for upper
secondary education nationwide. SEP's leadership role w}'l focus on: (a) preparation and
enforcement of educational policy norms; (b) curriculum development and textbook
production; (c) design and financing of compensatory and special programs for an equitable
distribution of education services; (d) support of educational research; and (e) operation of
the evaluation systems. The total SEP budget for 1993 was N$41.7 billion (US$13.4 billion)
and, for 1994, is N$44.8 million (US$14.3 million).
24.  Primary education is provided in three modalities (enrollment shares in parentheses):
general primary education (92.9 percent); bilingual or indigenous education addressing the
needs of 46 ethnic groups in 23 states (6.3 percent);-l and the CONAFE (National Council
for Educational Development, Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativol model, designed
to overcome the problem of building and staffing schools in the most remot rural areas (0.8
percent).§' Only the first two modalities would be supported by the proposed project.
B   ssues in Primary Education
2.5. Despite recent educational achievements, key problems remain to be addressed under
three sets of issues: quality, efficiency, and equity.
Quality
2.6.  Low ducational Achievement. Although no nationwide achievement tests are
systematically conducted in Mexico, data from periodic testing suggest that effective learning
in school requires substantial improvement. A 1988 SEP evaluation on Spanish,
mathematics, and the natural and social sciences indicated that students' average scores in
grades 4-6 were dismal, only slightly above 20 out of a possible score of 100.7' A 1992
study found that Mexican students mastered only 53 percent and 30 percent of the national
core curriculum in Spanish and mathematics, respectively Al These low educational
achievements were associated with inappropriate curriculum, poor teaching quality, high
V During the past 12 years, enrollment in the bilingual modality has increased at an annal rate of 5.6
percent, indicative of stronger demand and faster population growt rate in indigenous comnunities.
SEP's General Directorate for Indigenous Education (DGEI) is responsible for the sector.
5 CONAFE is a semi-autonomous institution of SEP and is curently coordinat  PARE and PRODEI.
§' This community-oriented program relies on young teachers recruited among basic education graduates,
who receive teacher training, texbooks, and mateials designed by CONAFE. The 18,798 CONAFE
schools were built and are maintained by the community  For one year of service, teachs receive
accommodations provided by the community, a monthly stipend, and a three-year scholarship to purse
upper secondary studies. In 1991/92, total enrollment in this program was 380,000.
Y' World Bank. Mexico: Primarv Education ProieM, Report No. 9770-ME, Washington, D.C.: 1991.
et Palafox, J.C., Prawda, J. and V6eez, E., PriM, School Ouality in Mexico - A View from LAkT*
No. 33, The World Bank: 1992.



teacher absenteeism, inadequate supervisory capacity, insuficient didactic materials,
dilapidated physical facilities, deficient management practices, and several nonschool factors
such as parents' lack of involvement in school issues.
2.7. Inappropriate Curriculum. The primary school curriculum had not been revised for
20 years until 1992, when the National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization
(ANAM) introduced a new integrated curriculum stressing basic skills (para. 2.35).
Implementation of the new primary education curriculum stared in "992/93 with the lowest
grades; the proposed project will support it with teacher training (paras. 3.8-3.13) and
updated educational materials (pamns. 3.14-3.19). A curriculum plan for grades 7-9,
published in September 1993, will be implemented in a gradual process through 1995. The
proposed project would support four studies to assess the quality and appropriateness of the
basic education curricula (para. 3.25(c)).
2.8.  Pbor Teaching Quaity. Only 30 percent of Mexican teachers, and less than ten
percent of the indigenous education teachers, possess the required college-level teaching
qualification or licenciaturm. Thus, many teachers lack the theoretical background and
methodological skills needed to foster good interaction with the stdents, teach children
effectively in the crucial lower grades, make the best use of textbooks and other instructional
materials, and identify and orient chldren with learning disabilities. These deficiencies are
exacerbated by: (a) the low quality and old-fashioned curricula of the teacher truning
schools (Escuelas Normales); (b) the insufficient length and frequency of in-service training
progams, which currently cover too many topics with little relevance to classroom teaching;
and (c) the lack of financial resources to assist rural teachers to attend tramng progams
offered in urban areas. Rural teachers are those most in need of training because of their
relative inexperience, lack of supervision, and the added difficulty of handling multigrade
teaching of children from deprived communities. The case of unitary (22.7 percent of all
primay schools) and incomplete schools (14.9 percent) deserves special attention because
effective management of multigrade classrooms (almost the rule in rural schools) is one of
the key ways to improve teaching quality, requiring coordinated action between training,
provision of educational materials, and supervision. Disadvantaged socioeconomic conditions
add to the learning difficulties of children in rural communities, whose families have little or
no educational background. Teachers must leam how to deal with these situations on the
job. The project would provide better-designed and more comprehensive in-service teacher
training offered in convenient locations (paras. 3.8-3.13), which would be followed up by a
continuum of technical supervision with improved pedagogical inflection (para. 3.29).
2.9. TIeacher Absenteeism and Misallocation. Teacher absenteeism in nrual areas stems
from: (a) difficult working and living conditions; (b) the long disunces teachers have to
commute from their residences; (c) the amount of time teachers must spend (an average of
four working days a month) just to cash their bimonthly checks; and (d) the paucity of
incentives (e.g., training opporunities. hardship pay, or faster promotion) to accept rural
assignments. As a result, teacher absenteeism is high, and many students lose a lot of class
days each year (an average of 56 days or 28 percent of the school year in the worst cases).
In addition, a high turnover rate among rural teachers (approximately 17 percent each yea.)
leads to the assignment of inexpenenced entry-level teachers to the most crucial inital grades
and difficult locations. Difficulties are further compounded by hiring and teacher assignment
practices which are influenced by the National Tbachers Union (SNTE), which supports



-6-
teacher tansfers to urban areas. resulting in overstaffing of many urban schools and
understaffing in rural schools. Low teacher salaries have been a demotivational factor,
having deteriorated in real terms by more than 33 percent from 1983 to 1990. Since 1990,
however, a concerted effort has been made to redress this situation and teacher salaries have
risen by 18 percent in real terms. Teacher salary levels have doubled from the equivalent of
0.9 times the 1985 per capita GDP to 1.8 times the 1993 per capita GDP, and have risen 36
percent more rapidly than the minimum wage over the same period. Providing incentives for
teaching in remote nural areas under PARE has yielded good preliminary results of teacher
attendance as measured by the number of effective school days. Similar teacher incentives
would be provided for the ten project states, relying on community support for monitoring
the presence of teachers in classrooms (paras. 3.26-3.28).
2.10. Inadequate Supervision. Teacher supervision is intequent and highly inadequate in
the poorest states. This results in: (a) little or no feedback on teacher performance; (b) no
systematic follow-up on school improvement in student achievements; (c) weak control over
teacher attendance; and (d) insufficient supervisors' input to timely textbook and materials
distribution. The problem is especially acute in rural schools, which typically lack a
principal, have the least experienced teachers, and are most in need of supervision.
Inadequate supervision is a multifaiceted administrative problem, strongly influenced by the
SNTE, and involving supervisors' training and difficult work conditions such as lack of
transportation and adequate offices. The number of schools allocated to each supervisor
(between 10 and 24) and their location in remote areas make frequent visits almost
impossible. Shortages of transport and budgetry allocations for per diem costs further
exacerbate the problem, as supervisors must use public transportation and pay their own
expenses. As a consequence, isolated mrual schools are for the most part left unattended.
There are no supervision offices, and supervisors must borrow working space in schools or
other public buildings or work out of their own homes. The project would improve the
supervision system thmugh specific traing, the creation of a broader supervision
framework, the financing of traewl incentives, and the provision of vehicles and supervision
offices (pam. 3.29).
2. 11. Shortages of Library Books and Other lUaching Materials. Support materials
such as library books, maps, models, posters, school supplies, audiovisual aids and basic
equipment for the natural sciences demonstrably increase educational achievement and
attainment. The lack of school library books is problematic, since few mrral Mexican
schoolchildren have access - at school or at home - to any reading material besides their
schoolbooks. The lack of early reading stimulation can retard children's progress in
developing reading and writing skills. The absence of additional educational materials is
particularly serious among indigenous children who often do not speak Spanish, have less
qualified teachers, and exhibit the worst education indicators. A recent preliminary
assessment of the impact of PARE indicates that the Reading Corners program2' has not
been sufficiently incorporated into classroom strategies, mainly because most teachers do not
2' The Reading Corns  Program (P,gnma de Rincones de Lectura) has been oped since 1986 by
SEP's Educauional Publications Unit (UPE) to provide studems and teachers with both an easy-access
hlbra  and the motivational tools to promote its regular use. The program sarted on a small scale but its
concept is national in scope; the program is being expanded with support provided by Bank projects.



-7 -
know how to use them. ' The project would provide: (a) sets of educational materials for
classroom and school use, includirg instructions for appropriate use of classroom materials,
textbooks, and Reading Corners (paras. 3.15-3.17); (b) reference books for teachers (para.
3.17); and (c) textbooks and reading materials for indigenous schools (paras. 3.18-3.19).
2.12. Deficiencies in Textbook Production and Distribution. For over 30 years, Mexican
children have benefitted from a national federally-funded textbook production system. Since
1959, the National Free Textbook Commission (CONAUTEG) has asserted the right of each
student to own a full and free set of textbooks for all subjects of prnmary education.
Production of textbooks (not under the project) has been impressive, with over 90 million
low-cost, well-designed and -illustrated educational books being produced in 1992/93 alone.
Textbook distribution, however, is a major problem, particularly in rural regions, since many
poorer states lack the resources and administrative capability for timely delivery of
textbooks. Since textbooks and teacher guides are all too often the only didactic materials
students and teachers can rely on, deficient distribution diminishes the quality of education.
To help correct these deficiencies, the project would strengthen the distribution system by
providirg for the construction of regional warehouses in strategic locations and the devising
of state-specific distribution plans and mechanisms (para. 3.30).
2.13. Dilapidated Physical Facilities. In 1992, a total of about 81,000 classrooms needed
rehabilitation. In addition, there is a current shortage of classrooms, estimated at nearly
23,460 at the primary education level based on enrollments and projected demand, which
represents a total investment cost of over US$660 million. While multi-shift schools could
mitigate this type of shortage to a certain extent, such programs have proved difficult to
implement in rural areas due to infrastructure limitations. In addition, many schools lack
toilets, many classrooms lack sufficient desks, chairs, and other furniture and equipment, and
schools often have no funds for basic physical maintenance.
2.14. For decades now, school construction has been under the responsibility of the Federal
School Construction Agency (CAPFCE), a SEP body with strong technical capacity and
extensive bidding experience. CAPFCE also manages and supervises most federally funded
school construction. Under PARE, difficulty of access to mrual communities resulted in high
unit costs of construction. The experience with the "Municipal Funds" approach sponsored
by the National Solidarity Program (SOLIDARIDAD) under the Decentralization and
Regional Development Project (Ln. 3310-ME, 1991) has led to reduced costs and increased
local participation with only a small loss in quality. Under the proposed project, the
diversity of geographic location would make it necessary to take advantage of both CAPFCE
and participatory approaches to school construction (paras. 3.20-3.23).
2.15. Need for Greater Community hrtlcipation. Community participation in school-
related activities enhances the community's responsibility for bettering academic performance
and fostering a positive learning environment. Historically, a centralized bureaucracy has
coexisted in Mexico with a strong tradition of community organization. However, two key
issues remain: (a) the lack of structures for community participation in many areas; and (b)
the failure to make full use of them in others. One of the geat successes of
101 Epeleta, J. et al. Phgrama wa Abaur el Reago_ Fucatiio. Evaldad6n Cuolitatva del Imn"ao.
Mexico D.F.: Cent de Investigacid6n y de Esmwos Avanzados del Instito Polit*nico Nacional, 1993.



-8 -
SOLIDARIDAD has been to meld these two tendencies into a process of actual
decentralization and effective community participation. Community participation, via
community committees, Municipal Education Councils, parents associations, or School
Councils (Consejos Escolares de Participaci6n SociaOU is an effective vehicle for social
commitment and a catalyst for practical and regular involvement with the school. The
creation of School Councils in each school with the joint participation of parents, teachers,
and local leaders is expected to foster closer cooperation between local communities and their
schools. The different types of entities participating in the project (authorities at the national,
state and local levels, professionals in national and state institutions, teachers, and the
communitty at large) need to be adequately and timely informed about project activities to
develop interest and start participation in the project. The proposed project would enhance
participation through: (a) enlisting Schools Councils to support and monitor teacher
attendance; (b) involving communities in school construction (para. 3.20); (c) transferring
resources for school maintenance to municipalities; (para. 3.22); and (d) implementing an
intensive project promotion effort among authorities and communities (para. 3.25(d)).
2.16. Lack of Evaluation. Limited resources and technical capacity contribute to difficulty
in monitoring and evaluating academic achievements and teaching standards across the
system. SEP's General Directorate for Evaluation (DGEIR) is the only public institution
undertalking evaluation research on qualitative and quantitative aspects of the education
sector. However, such evaluation research is typically limited in its sample coverage,
periodicity, scope, depth of analysis, and accessibility. At the state level, practically no
capacity for evaluation exists. This reduces the eli-iency and jeopardizes the sustainability
of educational investment programs. The result is a system in which the selection of the
most productive investments and most effective r'fonrms are clouded by scarce understanding
of the impact brought about by previous programs and policies. The project would foster the
capacity for sustainable measurement of the quality of education both at the central and state
levels, including a project process evaluation (para. 3.25('b)
2.17. Inadequate Managerial Capacity. State governments have assumed full
responsibility for managing their basic education systems, which until 1992 were under the
federal goverunent. Existing managerial abilities in the states, although generally
satisfactory, vary from one state to another, and weaknesses are still expected durng the
early years of decentralization. However, the state administrative structures are not entirely
new, since for decades the federal government developed field offices at the state level
(Serucios Coordinados de Educaci6n P(dlica, SCEPs), which gathered considerable
experience in operating the state education systems.
2.18. The 1992 ANAMi formally transferred the administrative apparatus, the schools, their
assets and staff to state administrations; redefined SEP's normative functions; and required a
new SEP structure to comply with those functions. The 1993 LGE confirmed the
distribution of responsibilities between the federal and state govenmnents. SEP's internal
regulations and procedures (Reglamentos Internos) are still being revised to conform with the
LGE, but the operation of the system in general and, in particular, the delivery of
educational services in the states have not been hampered by their absence.
LI School Counwils and Municipal Eduaion Councils were established by the 1993 WE.



-9 -
2.19. Effective integration of the transferred primary education systems into the existing
state systems presented practical difficulties at first. Differences in teacher salaries and
benefits between the state and federal systems, separately negotiated with differtnt labor
union chapters, made it very hard to unify the systems in most states. Nevertieless, the
gradual equalization of state and previously-federal teacher salaries, started in December
1992, is nearly completed. Only three states have not finished the process, but are due to do
so in 1994. Altogether, 427,000 teachers and education workers will have benefitted from
approximately $160 million of salary supplements from federal and state funds.
2.20. Before May 1992, the SCEPs had been in charge of translating central policies into
concrete actions in the field. Since that time, the SEEs (State Secretariats of Public
Education or equivalent organizations) have been created to take over the educational systems
transferred by the federal government and integrate them with the previously existing state
systems. In most cases, the structure and staffing of the former federal SCEPs in the states
formed the basis of the SEEs. These SEEs will need to devote more time to policy analysis
and strategic planning. Federal authorities are providing technical assistance to the states to
help them build up their institutional capacities through the SEP's General Coordination for
Education Decentralization. SEP intends to provide this service on a permanent basis at the
request of state governments and is establishing a resident representative office in each of the
states. SEP, however, does not have sufficient qualified human resources to provide all the
required adequate technical assistance, particularly in key areas such as policy analysis,
educational planning, information management, distribution systems, and evaluation. The
project would finance an integrated management training program in educational planning
and policy analysis (para. 3.25(a)) and the strengthening of project monitoring, evaluation,
and information systems at both federal and state levels (para. 3.25(b)).
Efficiency4V
2.21. High Repetition Rates. Mexico is beset by problems of high repetition rates - a
typical Latin Amencan proxy for school failure - leading to a costly and inefficient
education system. In 1993, official estimates for primary education repetition rates in
Mexico were 9.1 percent. Independent estimates, using a different methodology, place
nationwide repetition rates at 16.5 percent for the first grade and at 50 percent in the poorer
states.!3) Recent estimates suggest that these inefficiency costs amount to nearly 12 percent
of total expenditures in primary education.Al The problem is further aggravated by wide
repetition rate disparities between and within states. SEP data for 1993 reveal that repetition
rates vary from 4.6 percent in the Federal District to 14.9 percent in Oaxaca (Annex 2), and
14 states have rates of 10 percent or more. Other sources suggest that repetition rates higher
than 30 percent can be observed for the first two grades in many rumral schools. A
12 Within this section, there wil be mention of several alternative measurements of school efficiency
levels, which likely provide a more objective view against an international and comparative backdrop.
Nevertheless, official Mexican statistics are being used for the project, particularly for monitoring and
other indicators purposes.
13/ Schiefelbein, E., Output of the SMMG Model with Data from the GDPPB. Santiago, Chile:
UNESCO-OREALC, Siri System, June 1991.
W' Carlson, S.: Transforming the Vicious Circle: The Costs and Savings of School lnefficiency in
Mexico, A View from LATHR," No. 8: The World Bank, 1991.



- 10-
preparatory case study on two rural schools of Oaxaca revealed that the percentage of
students who repeated at least one year over a seven-year period were 48 percent and 63
percent, respectively.1Lv
2.22. High Dropout Rates. Low internal efficiency in Mexico is also characterized by
high rates of primary school dropout. Every year, about 0.7 million children (or 4.6 percent
of enrollments) drop out from schools, half of them before completing the third grade, i.e.,
before achieving functional literacy. Again, there are wide disparities among the states, from
0.6 percent in Baja California to 13.9 percent in Chiapas; 11 states exhibit rates of 5 percent
or higher (Annex 2). The Government is addressing this issue by: (a) improving the quality
of teaching through upgrading of teacher skills, strengthening the supervision process, and
increasing the supply of didactic materials; and (b) granting scholarships (Becas de
SOLIDANDAD) in the poorest areas to a limited number of students (up to 8 per class, or 24
per school) based upon continued attendance. Since the latter approach has a high cost per
beneficiary (about US$600 per student), the proposed project would support only the first
element of this strategy (paras. 3.8-3.13), which has more widespread benefits.
2.23. Low Completion Rates. The net effect of these high repetition and dropout rates is a
low rate of students completing the full six years of primary education. In 1991/92, only 58
percent of the students entering the first grade were likely to complete the sixth grade. Wide
disparities in completion rates exist between states, ranging from 31 percent in Chiapas to
82.4 percent in the Federal District. This implies that access to the upper level of basic
education (grades 7-9) also varies greatly between states. Children from the poorer southern
states are only half as likely as those from the northern states to gain access to grades 7-9.
Many of the factors responsible for low quality, such as teacher training and absenteeism,
insufficient didactic materials, and incomplete schools (paras. 2.6-2.20) are responsible for
these low efficiency rates.
2.24. High rates of grade repetition, as well as substantial numbers of students dropping out
of school, reflect the low efficiency rates. Approximately 50 percent of the reasons can be
attributed to socioeconomic factors that affect the lives of children in the project area, such
as poor nutrition, the need for children to participate at an early age as members of the labor
force, or migradon of the family in search of seasonal work for the heads of household.
Other factors can be traced to educational conditions such as poor training of teachers, lack
of adequate educational materials, teachers not speaking students' native languages, materials
not available in native languages, and deficient technical supervision.L6' The lowest quality
and efficiency indicators are observed in states with higher proportions of rural and
indigenous populations. The completion rate of indigenous children for primary schooling is
only 27 percent compared with 58 percent for all children, and their repetition rate is 42
percent compared with 9 percent for all children. Research has shown that improving the
quality of instructional inputs can increase student learning and motivate parents to keep their
children in school longer, thereby increasing the efficiency of the system. The project would
finance investments in improving the efficiency of education through teacher training (paras.
' Myers, R., School Repetition and Dropout - Case Studies of Two Rual Schools in the State of
Oaxaca. Mexico. Report prepared for The World Bank, 1993.
16' Ibid.



- 11 -
3.8-3.13), updated educational materials (paras. 3.15-3.19), and improved supervision
strategies (paras. 3.8-3.13 & 3.29).
2.25. 2 inancial Constraints and Patterns of Federal Education Spending. Both
efficiency and quality in the education system are heavily affected by limitations in the
availability of financial resources and by the way the federal government allocates resources
to the states. Federal education spending declined sharply in the 1980s, but has recovered
rapidly since 1991, evidence of the heightened importance the Government is placing on
education as a core element of future economic growth. The federal education budget grew
rapidly during the 1970s from 1.6 percent of GDP in 1970 to 3.1 percent in 1980, a period
when real GDP growth averaged about 7 percent per annum. Since 1982, federal spending
on education dropped from 3.7 percent of GDP (14 percent of the total federal budget) to 2.6
percent of GDP (12.1 percent of total federal budget) in 1986 as a result of the economic
crisis, affecting all sectors. Real federal spending in the 1990s has regained pre-crisis levels,
reaching an estimated 4.1 percent of GDP in 1993 (Annex 3). Compared with many other
Latin American countries, Mexico has maintained low levels of education spending in
relation to GDP, particularly in per pupil spending on primary education. Mexico's
education expenditures as a percentage of GDP per capita averaged 4.1 percent in the 1980s,
whereas those of Chile, Costa Rica, and Venezuela averaged 4.5 percent, 5.1 percent, and
5.5 percent, respectively. Although the situation is improving, financial constraints still
hamper the education sector, particularly in the provision of sufficient teaching materials and
adequate salaries for teachers. Given the high level of Government commitment to
education, it is anticipated that there will further, albeit small, increases in the percentage of
GDP and of the federal budget allocated to education over the next few years, plateauing to a
level of about 4.5 percent and 13.0 percent, respectively. Such expenditure increases, along
with the positive policies adopted by the Government to improve quality (para. 2.35), are
anticipated to make a major positive impact on school achievement.
2.26. Unbalanced Educational Expenditures. The repercussions of the deep budget cuts
in the education sector in the mid-1980s will remain for the medium-term. These budget
declines were accompanied by an increase in total enrollments, teaching staff, and number of
schools, resulting in drastic reductions in real per pupil expenditures. Between 1982 and
1990, federal spending for primary education decreased in real terms at an average annual
rate of 1.2 percent, while enrollments increased at an average annual rate of about 5 percent.
In censtant 1980 pesos, spending per pupil decreased by 47.4 percent in that period, resulting
in a scarcity of teaching materials and a reduction in the reMal value of teachers' salaries of
nearly 40 percent. The detenoration of the education budget is also reflected in the
inbalance between investment and recurrent expenditures. Almost 95 percent of federal
spending now goes to recurrent costs (personnel and operating costs), up from 81 percent in
1980. Only about 5 percent of the budget is invested in buildings, teacher training,
education materials, and classroom aids (Annex 3).
2.27. Inadequate Intra-Sectoral Allocation. There has been a long-term and increasing
bias in favor of higher educaton expendiures. In fact, the index of public subsidizationLy
12' The index of public subsidization meaures the percentage by which the private rate of rturn exceeds
the social rate of return. h G. Psacharopoulos and Y. Ng, Earnings and Education in Latin America.
Assessing Priorities for School Imestent. World Bank Policy Research Worldng Paper 1056, 1992.



- 12 -
shows that higher education is the most heavily subsidized level of schooling (41 percent) and
primary education the least subsidized (12 percent). Government policies addressing
educational financing and allocation of spending are outlined in its Policy Letter (Annex 4).
Equity
2.28. Allocation of Federal Government Expenditure. Public educational resources have
traditionally been allocated by the federal government, accounting for over three-quarters of
the actual educational expenditures, with private financing and contributions from states' own
resources providing the balance. The percentage of expenditures from the federal
government dropped from 86.3 percent in 1985 to 78.2 percent in 1991, whereas the state
expenditures increased from 8.7 percent in 1985 to 16 percent in 1991 (Annex 3). Because
of the national salary policy, which divides the country intO three zones to reflect cost-of-
living differences, unit costs have been higher in the richer states: in 1992, they were
N$1,154 per student in the non-project states compared with N$948 in the project states.
This explains why the ten proposed project states, which account for 41.0 percent of national
primary education enrollment in federally-funded schools, received only 38.2 percent of the
federal allocation for primary education in 1993. Since these poorer states are less able to
supplement federal allocations from their own resources (Annex 5), the Government has
introduced compensatory education programs as a key element in reducing inequity in the
education system by channeling more resources to the poorest states. The project states were
chosen based on selected educational and poverty indicators, which make up a marginality
index (Annex 6), and include San Luis Potosi, Veracruz, Michoacan, Puebla, Jalisco,
Guanajuato, YucatAn, Durango, lTbasco, and Campeche (para. 3.3); the states of Chiapas,
Oaxaca, Guerrero, and Hidalgo (covered under PARE) would also benefit directly from
management training programs for SEEs (para. 3.25(a)) and indirectly from other
institutional strengthening programs at CONAFE (paras. 3.25(b)-(d)). Primary education
statistics for the project states are included as Annex 2. To ensure that federal allocations
are maintained at a level in line with the compensatory scheme, monitoring of both federal
and state allocations to primary education would be tracked on a regular basis and reviewed
on an annul basis (paras. 6.1 & 7.2(v)).
2.29. Difficult School Access. Poverty not only causes low educational efficiency, but also
limits access to school for children in rural and indigenous areas. In primary education, the
net enrollment rate has remained at 98 percent for the past five years, but this nationwide
figure disguises regional pockets of low matriculation. In the state of Campeche, for
example, 30 percent of the schools are incomplete, i.e., they cover only the first three or
four grades of instruction. Moreover, on a national basis, 0.4 million children still have no
access to primary education at all, and a further 0.7 million children drop out of school each
year. The population still without access to primary education is characterized by extreme
poverty, geographic isolation, and early entry into low-paying positions in the labor market.
The proposed project would increase access to prinary education for poor children living in
the most deprived and remote municipalities within the ten states, particularly those children
in indigenous schools (e.g., 91 percent of indigenous schools in the state of Veracruz would
be covered), and schools temporarily without teachers (paras. 3.3-3.6).
2.30. Lack of Initial and Preschool Education. Both initial and preschool education
increase the reurn on pnmary and secondary school investments and raise participant



- 13 -
productivity and income levels. In 1991, the total number of children benefitting from initial
education in Mexico represented 2.8 percent of this age group. Overall, preschool services
were offered to 2.8 million children in 1991-92, only 10 percent of whom lived in rural or
indigenous areas. To respond to these needs, in 1992 the Bank supported PRODEI to help
Mexico develop non-formal education for 1.2 million poor children by training 910,000
parents (mostly mothers) in the ten poorest states in the care and education of their young
(aged 0-3) children. The Bank is supporting preschool education in the proposed project
through a pre-investment study in preschool education (para. 3.25(c) & Annex 14, Part A).
The study would be completed within the first two years of project implementation and
would be reviewed jointly with the Bank.
2.31.  Shortage of lextbooks for Indigenous Schools. Even though Mexico has the
greatest mnuber of indigenous population in Latin American (between 7 and 12 million,
according to estimates), quality education for these groups has received only superficial
attention. The bilingual approach applied in indigenous schools has not been adequately
supported by national programs. Because of their language and cultural characteristics,
indigenous children have found themselves in a disadvantageous learning situation whenever
they have been exposed to books and other reading materials designed to be used by Spanish-
speaking children. Annex 7 provides statistics on Mexico's indigenous population and on
educational services currently being provided to them. The proposed project would finance
the production of textbooks and reading materials for the indigenous primary schools of 17
ethnic groups scattered throughout the ten project states (paras. 3.18-3.19).
C. Government Strategy for the Education Sector
2.32. To address these issues, the Government has implemented over the last five years a
comprehensive reform of the education sector. A national plan was launched in 1989 to
ransform the education system; in 1992, the system was decentralized to the states; and in
1993, a national teaching career program was instituted, mandatory nine-year basic education
established, and the LGE passed. These measures have been buttressed by a budget recovery
for the sector (para. 2.25). The Government's sectoral policies are outlined in a Policy
Letter, which is in Annex 4. At negotiations. the Govenment presented a final Policy Letter
for the education sector (para. 7.1(a)).
2.33. An overall policy statement on education was made in 1989 by the incoming
administration to embody the commitment to build up Mexico's human capital. This
document, the Education Modernization Program 1989-94 (PME), was later incorporated into
the National Development Plan 1989-1994 and identified and set the basic framework for
taclding pressing issues of national education: decentralization, need for quality and
modernization, linkages between schooling and production, community participation,
scientific and technological advances, and need to increase the education budget. The PME
had four overriding objectives: (a) to decentralize the system; (b) to improve the quality of
education; (c) to raise the level of schooling throughout the population; and (d) to strengthen
community participation. Additionally, the need to increase resources for education and the
commitment of federal and state governments to commit resources thereto, within available
resources, nav been clearly expressed dhrough both the PME and the LGE.



- 14-
2.34. Decentralization. Basic education was decentralized to the states in May 1992
through the ANAM, which transferred from the federal government to the states the
management of initial, preschool, primary, lower secondary, and special education and
teacher training. To carry out their new.mandate, the states received all related facilities and
equipment and technical and administrative elements of the educational system as well as
corresponding budgetary allocations. An integrated model %-as implemented to address not
only the structural framework of the system, but also issues of curricular contents (para.
2.7), re.-aluation of the teaching function (paras. 2.8-2.9), community participation (para.
2.15), and the nonnative (para. 2.3) and compensatory (paras. 2.3 & 2.28) roles of the
central Government.
2.35. Quality of Education. The Goverunent's strategy to improve the quality of
education incluaes three elements: (a) upgrading of teachers; (b) updating of curricula; and
(c) provision of instructional materials. To support excellence in classroom teaching, foster
teacher interest in professional improvement, and offer better salaries based on refined
performance evaluation, the national Teaching Career Program (ICP) was launched, later to
be enhanced by an in-service teacher training strategy widening performance standards for
teachers to include class planning and evaluation activities, teaching strategies, and
community interaction. A second quality-related input involves the redefinition and updating
of the stuidy programs. The new curriculum, which was confirmed by the 1993 LGE,
stresses a back-to-basics approach, emphasizing reading, writing, and practical math, with
history and geography replacing the previous integrated 'social sciences" discipline. The
third quality enhancement element is the maintenance and upgrding of the nationwide free
textbook program, strengthened by the "Reading Corners" program (paras. 2.49 & 3.17),
and the provision of teaching materials and students' packages (paras. 3.15-3.16) and
indigenous textbooks and materials (paras. 3.18-3.19).
2.36. Schooling Level in Society. The Government is seeking to raise the general
schooling level by: (a) facilitating school access to wider population segments; (b)
prolonging mandatory school services; and (c) increasing students' retention and their
learning achievements. To reach broader social segments, the SEP is extending a wide range
of compensatory education progrms targeted at underserved populations through PARE
(paras. 1.14, 2.42-2.50 & 2.59) and PRODEI (paras. 1.14, 2.51 & 2.59), bilingual education
programs, and the CONAFE model (para. 2.4). The proposed project would expand the
Government's compensatory program to reach an additional 1.5 million children in
disadvantaged communities. To augment the length of learning experience, the Government
(i) increased the school year from 187 to 200 days and (ii) established a new nine-year basic
education mandate. This commitment to higher levels of basic education stems from results
of econometric studies which suggest that length of schooling plays a significant role in
explaining cross-country growth differentials.A8' The cost implications of the proposed
reform would be analyzed under the project through a study (para. 3.25(c) and Annexes 9 &
14), but the Goverrnent does not expect any significant additional budget commitments due
to existing unused capacity in secondary schools. To increase retention of students in the
La' In January 1993, compulsory and free nine-year basic education was enacted by integrating the six-
year primary education and the three-year lower secondary cycle, consistent with with UNESCO
recommendations and the policies followed by other Latn American counties at a similar developmental



- 15 -
school system and raise their academic achievements, the Government is undertaking
necessary measures to enhance the quality of the teaching-learning experience through
teacher and administrator training (paras. 3.8-3.13) and provision of updated books and
educational materials (paras. 3.14-3.19).
2.37. Community Participation. To make national education more democratic and
relevant to social promotion, the Government is reorganizing the education system to involve
communities in various aspects of school life, drawing the commitment of teachers, parents,
students, education authorities, and community members and leaders. Since the PME, and
mainly through the ANAM and the LGE, principles were stated, operational strategies
recommended, and mechanisms created to provide local communities with sufficient structure
and support for effective participation in school matters. "Councils of social participation"
were created at the community, municipal, and state levels, respectively, and are starting to
contribute valued input into the decision-making process.
2.38. Increasing Education Resources. Both the PME and the LGE express the
Government's commitment to increase financial resources for primary education and provide
special assistance to keep rural children in school. Recent education expenditures have
confirned this commitment, and it is expected that this level of commitment will at least be
maintained in the foreseeable future (para. 2.25 & Annex 3). Review of federal and state
budget allocations would occur during the proposed project's annual and mid-term reviews
(paras. 5.4-5.5 & Annex 20).
I). Bank Role and Experience in the Education Sector
2.39.  Prior to the 1990s, the primary focus of Bank assistance to the education sector was
on technical training, which reduced the shortages of skilled technicians, long considered a
major constraint to industrial growth. Through the First, Second, and Third Technical
Training Projects (Lns. 2042-ME (1981), 2559-ME (1984), and 3358-ME (1991),
respectively), the National System for Vocational and Technical Education with 252
vocational training centers and an enrollment of approximately 300,000 students was
established, and about 40 mobile training units were constructed to provide practical training
to conmnunities in marginal areas. The Manpower Training Project (Ln. 2876-ME, 1987)
supported retraining for the unemployed and in-service training for workers in small
enterprises. These projects have met their objectives and targets, and there have been no
notable implementation problems. These activities are being consolidated by the Labor
Market and Productivity Enhancement Project (Ln. 3542-ME, 1992).
2.40. Following the 1985 earthquake, the Bank financed the reconstruction, rehabilitation,
and reinforcement of public schools in five states (Colima, Guerrero, Michoacan, Chiapas,
and Oaxaca) and in Mexico City through the Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Project (Ln. 2665-ME, 1986). Under the Decentralization and Regional Development
Project (Ln. 3310-ME, 1991), the Bank is supporting rehabilitation of 14,328 schools and
reconstruction of 2,006 classrooms and 2,540 annexes for poor and indigenous populations in
the rural areas of the same four states covered by PARE, also supported by the Bank.



- 16 -
2.41. In the 1990s, the Goverunent requested major Bank support for primary education.
The 1991 PARE and the 1992 PRODEI, currently under implementation, seek to increase
education quality through a variety of targeted interventions in the states with the worst
educational indicators. With recent emphasis placed on Government policies for basic
education, the Bank can make a significant contribution to human resources development by
addressing the critical issues of quality, efficiency, and equity in primary education.
E. Lessons Learned from Past Operations
2.42. Relevant lessons from the implementation of ed ication projects in Mexico, chiefly
PARE, but also PRODEI, are discussed in this section.
2.43. Compensatory Projects and Education Quality. The compensatory PARE led to an
increase in primary education expenditures for four of the poorest states by 2.2 percent in
1991, 3.7 percent in 1992, and 24.3 percent in 1993 when project implementation accelerated
substantially. In particular, non-personnel expenditures per student increased by 6 percent in
1992 as a result of the compensatory programs, and by 305 percent in 1993, contributing to
a subsequent quality improvement of primary education in those states.)9 While the
education impact on students cannot be measured reliably over the short-term, there have
been reductions in repetition and dropout rates in the PARE states. In Hidalgo, for example,
the repetition rate declined from 12.4 percent in 1990/91 to 9.4 percent in 1992/93 and the
dropout rate from 4.1 percent to 3.6 percent, resulting in an increase in the terminal
efficiency rate from 58.7 percent to 67.0 percent over this period. Based on these positive
results, the proposed project would cover the next ten poorest states in Mexico, channeling
the resources mostly to non-personnel costs, which would be inshumental in improving the
quality of primary education in those impoverished states; the four PARE states would also
benefit from the management capacity building subcomponent. By 1998/99 the project
states' share of all SEP primary education expenditures would increase fim 38.3 percent in
1993 to 40.3 percent, and the expenditure per student in the project states would increase
rapidly, thereby reducing the gap between richer and poorer states.
2.44. ITrgeting. The first project targeted four of the economically and educationally
poorest states. However, since even the poorest states were found to have municipalities at
different levels of development, the efficiency of investment is being further maximized by
focusing most project activities not only on the next ten poorest states, but also on the 511
poorest municipalities (out of a total of 934) within these ten states ("project areas") (paras.
3.3-3.6).
2.45. Decentralization. PARE has been carried out withdthe support of state Coordinating
Units, which have played a successful role in implementation. Based on that experience, the
proposed project would expand support to decentralization by: (a) involving the participant
states' SEEs in the project preparation process; (b) creating state-level Coordinating Units
(SPCUs, Unidades de Coordinaci6n Estatal) for project implementation and monitoring
(para. 3.32); (c) providing technical assistance and human resources development to
12' The non-personnel federal expenditures per student per year increased from US$14.26 without the
project to US$22.98 with the project in 1991, and most dramatically from US$13.99 without the project
to US$56.76 with the project in 1993.



- 17 -
strengthen the SEES in the areas of planning and policy analysis, educational management
information, and evaluation systems (para. 3.25); and (d) empowering School Councils to
carry out school construction and maintenance (paras. 3.20-3.23).
2.46. Teacher Training. The PARE has shown that its teacher training courses were too
short and needed to be reinforced with practical in-service supervision. Consequently, under
the proposed project, the courses would be expanded in length and content and follow-up
technical assistance in classroom performance has been designed to provide for a more active
role by supervisors and principals after the formal training period (paras. 3.8-3.13).
2.47. Teacher Incentives. The evidence from PARE suggests that financial incentives for
teachers serving in the most remote rural schools has been successful in many ways.
Teacher absenteeism has been significantly reduced, the number of teachers willing to fill
teaching positions in isolated schools has increased, and teacher turnover has been reduced to
a minimum. Attaching the incentive to the school rather than to the teachers has succeeded
in promoting teachcr stability. Community cooperation in helping oversee teacher attendance
has increased parental commitment to other parts of school life, such as transportation of
educational materials to the school and the use of the Reading Corners. Under the proposed
project, the teacher incentives program would be extended to the project areas, focusing on
schools without teachers and on multirade and indigenous schools (paras. 3.26-3.28).
2.48. Instructional Materials. The provision and use of instructional materials (such as
paper, pencils, maps, games, and globes) under PARE has contributed to: (a) more active
learning in those poor schools; (b) more cooperative classroom work; and (c) more
productive use of teachers' time in the classroom. Some materials of poor quality had to be
replaced, and teachers had to be trained to use the materials adequately. The proposed
project would: (a) expand the provision of instmctional materials to the project areas; (b)
carry out a more careful selection and design of didactic materials; and (c) train teachers on
how to get the best educational results from these materials (paras. 3.15 & 3.17).
2.49. Reading Corners. From PARE, it was learned that the Reading Corners program
can: (a) complement teachers' strategies; (b) stimulate students' interests and reading habits;
(c) expand the benefits of selected reading to poor families; and (d) support teachers'
continuing education through the provision of reference materials. The proposed project
would: (a) strengthen the Reading Corners in the project areas; (b) increase the number and
selection of titles, including books with regional content; and (c) introduce reference and
technical materials to support teachers' classroom and community activities (para. 3.17).
2.50. Indigenous Texbooks. The development and production of new textbooks for
indigenous schools under PARE yields two main lessons: (a) the participatory strategy used
by the General Directorate for Indigenous Education (DGE) in developing these materials
through close dialogue with indigenous leaders, teachers, schoiars and parents has been
highly successful and unanimously supported; and (b) the visual improvement of the
textbooks by using indigenous colors and iconography has increased communication
effectiveness. The proposed project has incorporated these two features in the design and
production of textbooks and other instructional materials for 17 additional ethnic groups in
the project areas (paras. 3.18-3.19).



- 18 -
2.51. Environmental Education. PRODEI has indicated that environmental education can
and should be promoted from the early years of a child's life through: (a) the development
of good health and hygienic habits; (b) consideration for the micro-enviromnent, particularly
the domestic environment; and (c) the formation of a positive attitude toward natural
resources and public facilities. The proposed project would finance an assessment of
enviromnental education at the basic education level in Mexico and offer recommendations
that could lead to further action (para. 3.25(c) & Annex 14, Part C}.
2.52. Educational Materials Distribution System. A preparatory study concluded that
textbook distribution has been hampered by the absence of: (a) a comprehensive and
participatory plan of delivery to schools; and (b) adequate transportation from warehouses to
schools. In addition, the design of regional warehouses built under the first project needed
some adjustments to better perform their required functions. Accordingly, the proposed
project would: (a) require a logistical distribution plan to be developed by each state,
including the use of state or municipal transportation along with community-based initiatives;
and (b) provide vehicles for supervisors to use for both supervision (para. 3.29(d)) and
distribution of educational materials (para. 3.30).
2.53. School Construction Models. A preparatory study has indicated that construction
costs have been higher in isolated rural communities and that technical supervision has been
insufficient, thereby undermining the quality of construction. Furthermore, construction
costs have been higher than expected and construction of schools in remote rural areas under
the Decentralization and Regional Development Project via the SOLIDARIDAD municipal
funds (a strategy not applied under PARE) was able to mobilize community contributions and
reduce construction costs. The proposed project would therefore: (a) maintain PARE's
strategy for urban areas and more readily accessible rural areas, but with closer cost-control
instruments; (b) introduce a decentalized and participatory approach modeled after the
SOLIDARIDAD experience for more remote rural areas; and (c) strengthen the technical
supervision of construction by local CAPFCE and private supervisors (paras. 3.20-3.23).
2.54. Project Implementation Experience. The General Directorate for Planning,
Programming and Budgeting (DGPPP) under which the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
operated had limit2d experience in working with Bank projects, thus there were some delays
in PARE start-up. Now, the coordinating team, operating under CONAFE's direction, has
learned to successfully coordinate, monitor and evaluate the activities of PARE. For the
proposed project, the experienced PCU team would be retained and complemented. In
addition, specific staff training has been planned to furtier improve their skills (paras.
3.25(a) & 3.31-3.33).
Bank-Wide Education Projects
2.55. Project Design. Feedback from several education projects in Latin America indicates
that a proper policy framework and adequate institutional capacity are major factors
determining the success of project implementation. The proposed project, based on
experience gained from PARE, focuses on improving the quality and efficiency of primary
education on the basis of (a) a clearly stated Govermment policy framework and (b)
improvement of the institutional capacity of central and state education entities.



- 19 -
2.56. Project Management. When a project implementation unit is created separately from
the existing organizational units, existing units often miss the opportunity to acquire technical
expertise during the process of project implementation and to strengthen their institutional
capacity. Moreover, externally-financed projects and the overall national program can
develop simultaneously without proper synchronization. On the basis of such lessons, the
proposed project has been explicitly designed to fit within the overall national program, and
most project activities would be implemented and supervised by the SEEs through their
existing operational structures, in coordination with the PCU and some central SEP units.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.57. The Bank's most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico dated May
18, 1993 focuses on strengthening human resources and enviromnental protection and
stimulating pnvate sector-led growth. The CAS was presented to the Board with the
Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project (Ln. 3628-ME, 1993) on June 24, 1993.
The proposed Second Primary Education Project, PAREB, is consistent with the CAS. After
the successful implementation of Mexico's economic adjustment program, the Bank has
shifted its emphasis to investment lending geared towards assisting sustained growth and
poverty alleviation programs. To support growth, the Bank will help the Government
enhance the country's institutional capacity for efficient allocation and use of public
resources. To support poverty alleviation programs, the Bank will assist the Government's
efforts in targeting the poor for public resources. The Bank is supporting major initiatives in
the human resources sector aiming at improving the quality and efficiency of social services,
the labor market, and nutrition (in the near future) through projects and well-targeted sector
work. Future proposed projects in education would focus on preschool and secondary
education and on the modernization of technical training, backed in all cases by sector work.
This proposed project represents the analytical foundation for this additional support in
education. The Bank, with its long involvement in Mexico and with its experience in other
countries, is in a unique position to play a catalytic role in: (a) increasing investments in
primary education, thus helping to accumulate human capital, the lack of which is a serious
constraint to growth; and (b) focusing on the most disadvantaged states and areas within
these states, thus addressing the needs of the poor and contributing to a more equitable
distribution of educational and economic opportnities.
2.58. The Bank has acquired significant experience in assisting primary education
worldwide and has become the single most important source of external financing for the
primary, education sector in Mexico. The Government has shown interest in involving the
Bank more closely in policy and program development in the human resources sector in
general and has requested the Bank's support for the basic education sector in particular.
2.59. By focusing on the poorest states, the proposed project would complement a set of
Bank-financed projects targeted on the poor, including: (a) the 1990 Basic Health Care
Project (Ln. 3272-ME) to extend health care services to 13 million uninsured poor in four of
the poorest states (Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero, and Hidalgo) and in the Federal District; (b)
the 1990 Low-Income Housing Project (Ln. 3140-ME); (c) the 1990 Third Technical
Traninmg Project to provide vocational training to adolescents from poor families, and
unemployed; (d) the 1991 Decentralization and Regional Development Project to improve the



- 20 -
irdhastructure and productive capacity of rural communities in the four poorest states; (e) the
1991 Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project (Ln. 3271-ME), to improve the living
conditions of 24 million people, most of whom are in the lowest segments of society; (f) the
1991 Primary Education Project (PARE), to improve the quality and efficiency of primary
education in the four poorest states; (g) the 1992 Initial Education Project (PRODEI), to
support the early development of 1.2 million children in the ten poorest states of Mexico;
and (h) the 1992 Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project to retrain unemployed
workers, upgrade unskilled workers, and improve employment services for the poor.
M. THE PROJECr
A. Project Concept and Objectives
3.1.  The objective of PAREB is to assist the Governmern in improving the quality and
efficiency of primary education in ten southern states with a high incidence of poverty and
low educational indicators (Campeche, Durango, Guanojuato, Jalisco, MichoacAn, Puebla,
San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz, and Yucatfin) in order to reduce their educational
deficiencies and bring them closer to the national average. It would also reinforce
management capacity in the four states (Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero, and Hidalgo) covered by
PARE. The proposed project draws on the experience of PARE and would support the
Government's policy of providing compensatory assistance to the less developed states.
3.2.  The expected improvement in quality and efficiency of primary education would be
reflected in: (a) a decrease in repetition and dropout rates; (b) an increase in the level of
children's cognitive achievement; and (c) a more effective management of the primary
education system. These are high-priority objectives of the Government (paras. 2.32-2.38 &
Policy Letter (Annex 4)), to be pursued by the states in the context of the decentralization
policy (paras. 2.33-2.34).
B. Project Areas and Tlrget Populaion
3.3. The ten states included in PAREB were selected based on three indicators: (a) the
CONAPO (National Population Council) poverty index;20' (b) the primary education
completion rate as a proxy for internal efficiency;A  and (c) the indigenous education rates.
Out of the ten project states, all are below the median and the mean of the CONAPO index
(Annex 6) and all but one have primary education completion rates lower than the national
20/ The CONAPO index is a poverty index based on the results of 'principal components analysis", using
1990 census data and composed of several municipal indicators: (a) population; (b) percentage Of
population 15 years or more who are illiterate; (c) percentage of population over age 15 without primary
school education; (d) percentage of households without electricity; (e) percentage of overcrowded
households; (f) percentage of occupants in households without a constructed floor; (g) percentage of
population in localities with fewer than 5,000 habitants; and (h) percentage of population with fewer than
two minimum salaries (about N$14 on countrywide average per minimum daily salary).
211 The school completion rate for primary education was chosen because it results from a number of
factors affecting educational performance, including high repetition and dropout rates, a large number of
incomplete and single-teacher schools in remote rural areas, inadequacy and shortage of educational
materials, and poorly trained teachers. These educational deficiencies largely parallel weak economies
and inability of the states to channel the resources necessary to improve education.



-21 -
average (Annex 2). In 1991, the ten states made up 39 percent of the population aged 6-11
in the country, 39 percent of the total primary enrollment, and 38 percent of enrollment in
then federally operated (and now state) primary schools. lb reenforce the management
capacity of the four states under PARE (which encountered some start-up difficulties due to
institutional weakmesses, see para. 2.54), their managers would also benefit from the
management training subcomponent. 22
3.4.  Within the ten project states, project areas were selected on the basis of the
municipality's poverty and educational indicators. In line with the national policy of basic
education decentralization, each participating state conducted a diagnostic study to determine
which areas within the municipalities should be included in the project. As a result, the
project targets the neediest people living in areas where economic conditions are most severe
and educational marginality most critical. A total of 511 municipalities (54.7 percent) w--re
thus selected out of 934. The selected municipalities comprise 56 geographic regions,
including 29 regions of high sierras and deep tropical valleys or semi-arid plateaus where
indigenous peoples predominany live. State capitals and most major urban areas were
excluded. Approximately 97 percent of project areas are poor, rural, and isolated villages of
fewer than 1,000 inhabitants, lacking basic services like water, sewerage and electricity, and
where the average family income is less than the minimum wage. By targeting the poorest
areas, the project would also indirectly concentrate project activities in areas of high
indigenous concentration (see Box next page).
3.5.  The project would cover 13,858 schools, or 38 percent of the primary schools in the
ten states. Approximately 1.5 million children are enrolled in the project schools,
representing 27.5 percent of primary school enrollment in the project states, or 10.4 percent
of the national primary school enrollment. The selected schools are served by 52,859
teachers, representing 29 percent of the teaching force in the ten states, or 11 percent of the
national teaching force at the primary education level (Annex 8).
3.6.  Poverty, usually associated with poor health and nutrition, also correlates with a low
level of education. Average adult illiteracy in the project states is estimated at 13.7 percent,
higher than the national rate of 11.8 percent. Average primary school completion rate for
the ten states is 52.6 percent; dropout rates average 5.5 percent; and repetition rates stand at
18.7 percent, all worse than the national averages of 58.1 percent, 4.6 percent and 17.1
percent, respectively (Annex 2).
C Project Components
3.7.  The project has been organized into three major components, as follows:
A.   Human Resources Development (US$107.9 million or 17.5 percent of total
costs including contingencies), to provide in-service training and upgrading for
classroom teachers, principals, supervisors, and selected technical personnel;
B.    Educational Material Resources (US$324.2 million or 52.5 percent of total
costs including contingencies), to provide good educational materials and facilities,
221 "Project staes" in this report will refr strictly to the ten staes previously identified (pama. 3.1).



- 22 -
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE AND THE PROJECT
Mexico has the largest indigenous population in Latin America, approximately 8.7
million people (over three times the popuation of Costa Rica), corresponding to 10.4 percent of
the national population. The indigenous population is massively occupied in the primary sector
(76 percent compared to 22.6 percent counrywide) and geographically concentrated, with 78
percent living in one-third of the country's 2,403 municipalities. Being of indigenous origin is
synonymous with backwardness and poverty. Educational indicators have remained significantly
lower in indigenous than in non-indigenous areas of Mexico as shown below:
Education Indicators - General vs. Indigenous Populations (%)
Primary Education (PE)       Adult Educ. Attainent
Preschool
Enrollment  Enrollnent  Repetition  Completion  % With 6-    Adult
Rate       Rate        Rate      year PE    Illiteracy
General         67          98          9          58          68          12
Population                                                   _
Indigenous      41          72          42         27          14          46
,Population                              ____                      _
Indigenous schools suffer from specific shortcomings: (a) the absence of culturally-
oriented textbooks and appropriate educational materials, a particularly serious problem among
indigenous children who do not speak Spanish; and (b) 90 percent of indigenous teachers do not
possess the officially required licenciatura.
The project wtuld devote US$125 million (or approximately 22 percent of total project
cost) to support the education of indigenous children by providing for teacher training and
incentives, textbooks, didactic materials, Reading Corners, and school construction/rehabilitation
and maintenance. Indigenous populations are targeted for project interventions in the ten project
states which, together with the four PARE states, comprise 81 percent of Mexico's indigenous
population. Using a more explicit targeting mechanism weighted heavily with poverty and
indigenous population indicators, the project would benefit, on a relative scale, indigenous areas
more. The teacher training courses would enroll an estimated 31,900 indigenous teachers, or
10.5 percent of all project teacher training instances. All indigenous schools in the project areas
will receive the teacher incentives program, and 43 percent of the incentive recipients would be
indigenous teachers. These same schools would also benefit from construction/rehabilitation and
maintenance programs, and DGEI would develop native educational materials for the Reading
Corners in indigenous schools.
Textbooks and reading materials would be developed in the 17 main native languages
spoken in the project areas: Chol, Chontal, Huasteco, Huichol, Maya, Mazahua, Mexicanero,
Nahuatl, Purepecha, Tepehuano, Totonaco, three variants of Nahuatl, and one each of Huasteco,
Maya, and Totonaco, covering about 90 percent of all ethnic groups in the project states. Book
contents would be gathered through ethno-linguistic field research conducted through a
participatory strategy successfully developed under PARE; about 126,000 textbooks, 126,000
student workbooks, and 5,000 guidebooks wrould be printed. The project would thus add to the
eight languages for which materials were developed under PARE. Indirecdy, by developing
technical know-how at DGEI, the project would also assist the production of textbooks and
materials in 21 other languages that DGEI is working on in other states; eventually, indigenous
textbooks will have been produced for 46 of the country's 56 main indigenous groups.



- 23 -
namely: (i) teaching materials, school supplies, and school library books both
Spanish and bilingual (US$190.3 million); and (ii) urgently needed rehabilitation or
replacement of approximately 6,900 classroom and other school facilities (US$131.7
million); and
C.   Institutional Strengthening (US$184.5 million or 30.0 percent of total costs
including contingencies), to strengdten the management capabilities and skills of
educational organizations at the national, state, and local levels. It would: (i)
strengthen the management capacity of SEP and of SEEs by supporting improvements
in planning and policy analysis and in the monitoring, evaluation, and information
systems, conducting selected studies to help design future education programs, and
designing and carrying out project promotion; (ii) provide work incentives for
approximately 7,000 teachers serving in isolated areas; (iii) support a more effective
educational supervision system; (iv) strengthen the textbook delivery and materials
distribution system; and (v) finance the project administration at the central and state
levels.
D. Project Description
Component A. Human Resources Development (US$107.9 million including
contingencies)
3.8.  The objective of the human resources development component is to produce more
effective teaching and learning conditions in rural schools by enhancing specific teacher skills
and tying teacher career advancement to objective performance criteria and by introducing an
integrated pedagogical foundation to educational supervision. The contents of the training
courses have been selected to fill areas of expertise not covered by the teacher education
curricula in colleges and Normal Schools, but deemed critical to teaching under the special
circumstances of project schools. The training program has borrowed from the experience of
PARE and its components have been accepted by the PAM program, which intends to apply
similar training concepts to other states. Teachers who graduate from the training courses
would be eligible for the '1CP career advancement program (Annex 10 provides an in-depth
description of the teaching training strategy).
3.9.  Training Program. The training program would be administered to all project
teachers, principals, supervisors, and assistant supervisors. Each program participant would
be required to take a five-day summer program (40 hours) consisting of the three core
courses - Educational Resources, Educational Problem Prevention, and Remedial Education
- plus a number of other courses over seven one-day workshops (a total of 42 hours),
approximately once a month on a Saturday over the following school year. Teachers would
be required to take one state-specific course, either Written Language or Mathematics
(depending on their specialty), and, where applicable, Multigrade Class Teaching (for new
teachers likely to be assigned to a multigrade school) and a choice of one or more indigenous
teaching courses (for teachers in indigenous areas): Bilingualism in Indigenous Education,
Spanish as a Second Language, or Use of Indigenous Texts and Materials. Emnphasis would
be on the teaching requirements of the first and second grades where the highest repetition
and dropout rates are found. For administrators, a course in Pedagogical Counseling would
be required of supervisors, principals, and technical assistants, while supervisors would take
an additional course in Supervision. Educational supervision would be pushed beyond the



-24 -
present concern with administrative control. To this end, an innovative "pedagogical
network" concept would be applied throughout the training courses and follow-up activities,
thereby training principals and supervisors to provide teachers with guidance on sound
educational principles and effective classroom techniques. Teacher trainers would be
selected primarily from well-performing graduates of this group, principals, and supervisors.
3.10. Each year, the training program participants would be selected according to the
priority needs of the area in which they work, using the same index used to target the 511
project municipalities (paras. 3.3-3.4); it is expected that all project participants would be
trained by the fifth year of the project. This approach provides further incentives for
teachers and administrators to work in the most disadvantaged localities by providing them
the means for earlier career advancement under the TCP. Training centers would be housed
in either an existing Normal School or in a secondary or technical vocational school with a
wide geographical distribution to minimize travel and lodging costs. No additional physical
infrastructure would be required for the training centers, but the project would finance
required computers and audiovisual materials and equipment. The Govermnent's list of
selected training centers was reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory. The project would
also finance the costs of transportation and meals, training materials, and remuneration
(equivalent to overtime pay) for trainers, supervisors, and school principals for participation
in the Saturday workshops.
3.11. The training program would operate under the same steering unit in the
Undersecretariat for Basic Education (Subsecretaria de Educaci6n Bdsica, SEB) which
oversees the PAM to avoid course content duplications and to ensure that credit points for
successful program completion are properly recorded under the TCP. The summer courses
would be integrated with a regular PAM one-week summer workshop to update curricular
contents. A Central Technical Group attached to SEPs normative units for general and
indigenous primary education would be responsible for overall planning of training activities,
designing the courses, and developing training materials. This group would, in turn, be
responsible for training the State Technical Groups and for following up and evaluating all
project training activities in the states. State Technical Groups would similarly be organized
in project SEEs for general and indigenous primary education, respectively. The State
Technical Groups would be responsible for organizing the training courses for state trainers,
teachers, and supervisors, and for evaluating the performance of trainers. Both the central
and state Technical Groups would be made up of technical staff members of SEP and SEE,
respectively, serving on a full-time basis. The State Technical Groups, together with the
state trainers, would conduct follow-up activities to the Saturd  workshops to encourage
teachers to pursue further training through continued use of the Reading Corners and other
self-training opportunities.
3.12. Printed training materials would be specifically developed for each training course.
They would include study guides, a bibliography, a trainer's manual, evaluation instruments,
and an anthology of selected readings. Posters and promotional materials would also be
developed and distributed to encourage teacher participation in the training program.
Materials developed for PARE have been revised for use in this project.
3.13. Beneficiaries would include all of the estimated 52,859 existing teachers in the
project municipalities, who would participate in the required three general primary and the



- 25 -
one state-specific courses; of this number, approximately half would also each take either
Written Language or Mathematics, depending on their concentration. Over the project life,
an estimated 6,780 new teachers would attend the Multigrade Class Teaching course, while
the indigenous education training courses would enroll an estimated 30,390 participants per
course in the 12-day (summer and workshops) courses, and 1,520 in the 5-day (summer
only) courses. Altogether, a total of approximately 302,985 teacher training instances would
have been carried out. An estimated 8,730 participants would take the Pedagogical
Counseling course, and 945 would take the Supervision course, for an aggregated total of
about 9,680 participants.
Component B. Educational Material Resources (US$324.2 million including
contingencies)
3.14. The objective of the educational material resources component is to improve the
quality of learning, student performance, and school attendance and thereby reduce student
dropout and repetition rates through the provision of: (a) school and classroom teaching and
learning materials; (b) student educaticnal supplies; (c) books for the Reading Corners; (d)
texts and educational materials for indigenous education; and (e) urgently needed
rehabilitation or replacement of inadequate school facilities and construction of new
classrooms to meet expanding enrollment.
3.15. Subcomponent B.1. Teaching Materials and Student Educational Packages
(US$179.2 million including contingencies). Packages of teaching materials containing
maps, charts, posters, anatomic models, and other items would be distributed to each project
school. Schools having access to electricity would receive an additional package of
audiovisual equipment, including audio cassettes, a radio, a tape recorder, and an overhead
projector. The package for schools without electricity would cost, on average, approximately
US$3,850, and for those with electricity, about US$4,600. Each classroom would receive a
package of grade-specific materials, including rulers, dictionaries, games, geometric solids,
and chalkboards. Multigrade classes would have appropriately designed packages servicing
all grades taught. These packages would cost approximately US$276 each per year for
multigrade classes and US$160 for each of the six primary grades.
3.16. All students would receive a package of school supplies, including notebooks, pencils,
crayons, dictionary, and rulers to encourage more active participation in learning both in
school and at home, and to relieve the financial burden on their families. Packages would be
differentiated in the number of items included according to the type and level of marginality
of the community involved. The cost of a package would range from US$8 to US$13 per
student per year. The Bank would finance non-durable student educational packages on a
declining basis. The project would support an improved distribution system for both the
national textbooks and the project materials (para. 3.30).
3.17. Subcomponent B.2. Reading Corners (US$7.1 million including contingencies).
The proposed project would support the production and distribution of Reading Corners
packages, through SEP's Education Publications Unit (Unidad de Publicaci6n Educativa,
UPE) to all project classrooms. The Reading Corners program was included in PARE and
was requested by the proposed project's participating states. During project preparation, it
was observed that existing Reading Corners were often underused due to (i) insufficient
mumbers of books and/or (ii) placement of the Reading Corners within a central and often



- 26 -
bureaucratized library system. Under the project, more books would be available, schools
would be encouraged to provide books in the classrooms themselves, and teachers and
principals would receive training on how to use and promote the Reading Corners. There
are two versions of the Reading Corners package, one with at least 200 books (for schools
with five or less classrooms) and the other with at least 350 books (for schools with six or
more classrooms). These are higher numbers of books than under PARE or other Reading
Corners elsewhere, which would make the books more accessible to students through
teachers or directly in each classroom. Each package consists of books on various subjects,
selected to enrich the educational experience of students, broaden their cultural outlook, and
reinforce their reading skills. The books are used to supplement textbook materials, or they
are borrowed by teachers, students, and the community for side reading. A further
improvement to the program under the proposed project consists of a supplementary package
of at least 15 educational reference books for teacher self-training and at least 30 books with
regional content for each classroom. Training in the regular use of Reading Corners would
be provided as part of the teacher training curriculum and reinforced through the pedagogical
network. SEP's DGEI would also develop a special package of reading materials with native
educational contents for Reading Corners in indigenous schools (paras. 3.18-3.19).
3.18. Subcomponent B.3. Textbooks and Educational Materials for Indigenous
Education (US$6.2 million including contingencies). Language textbooks and reading
materials for the Reading Corners would be developed in the 17 native languages spoken by
the major ethnic groups in the project areas, which would cover the languages of about 90
percent of the indigenous population in the project states.L3' Content material for the
books would be gathered through ethno-linguistic field research conducted under DGEI. A
participatory methodology for text design and various visual presentation and communication
modalities has already been developed with PARE support by a DGEI team, which would
remain to develop indigenous textbooks under the project and other DGEI-sponsored
programs.
3.19. Indigenous language textbooks and Reading Corners materials would be developed for
the six primary grades. A technical group, with a DGEI coordinator and a state-level
representative for each of the 17 languages, would be in charge of coordinating the selection
and preparation of the native language texts. Each indigenous group representative would, in
turn, head a four-member working group with direct responsibility for developing the
respective textbooks and other instructional materials. The DGEI coordinator would
supervise the work and ensure that national educadonal norms are observed. An outside
consultant would advise the working groups and provide technical support during the first
project year. Preliminary versions of textbooks, student workbooks, and teacher guidebooks
for grades 1 and 2 would be designed, produced, and field tested on a pilot scale during the
first project year; results and recommendations of the field tests would be incorporated into
the final version which would then be printed and distnbuted. This process would be
repeated for grades 3 and 4 during the second year, and those for grades 5 and 6 during the
third year. This slow start-up period is required due to the large number and complexity of
23 The languages are Chol, Chontal, Huasteco, Huichol, Maya, Mazahua, Mexicanero, N6huatl,
Puarpecha, Tepehuano, Totonaco, three variants of Nahuad, and one each of Huasteco, Maya, and
Totonaco. For a broader perspective of the project's impact on indigenous education, see the Box
Indieenous People and The Project on page 22.



- 27 -
indigenous languages, the need for appropriate treatment of cultural differences, and the
small number of experts available. About 126,000 textbooks, 126,000 student workbooks,
and 5,000 guidebooks for bilingual teachers would be evenually printed.
3.20. Subcomponent BE4. Improvement of Physical hnfrastructure (US$131.7 million
including contingencies). School rehabilitation and/or construction subprojects would be
implemented by the SEEs, following one of two strategies depending on the educational
needs, location, access, and productive capacity of the project municipality. The first is a
community participation strategy modeled after the successful SOLIDARIDAD program,
which would be used for schools located in remote areas unlikely to generate contractor
interests beyond the immediate vicinity and where the community is willing and able to
contribute the required labor and time. It is expected that about 50 percent of construction/
rehabilitation under the project would fall under this modality. A basic design from the
CAPFCE menu of school prototypes would be selected by in consultation with local School
and Municipal Education Councils, with variations as applicable to accommodate local and
regional diversity in climate, ecology, and available materials. This building modality does
not use public bidding and operates through School Councils under the oversight of
municipalities and under technical supervision provided by State Secretariats of Public Works
(Secretarfa de Obras Pgiblicas del Estado, SOPE) (para. 3.23), with guidance from a self-
help construction handbook. This handbook is being designed based on existing
SOLIDARIDAD material, with necessary modifications to reflect the type of civil works to
be carried out and the local or regional conditions. Contracting for small works such as
rural schools would be done directly with local contractors for al or part of the work, using
regionalized reference prices, and the community would contribute labor and locally available
materials. The second strategy would be to transfer management, proement, and
supervision responsibility to CAPFCE for the estimated remaining 50 percent of the
imfrastructure works (located mainly in more urbanized areas or with easy access), which are
considered '.arge enough to attract a number of contractors through a public bidding process.
Annex 11 provides a more detailed description of the civil works to be carried out under the
project.
3.21. School construction needs were determined by SEEs in each state through a survey of
schools in the project areas. Civil works requirements were based on the need to: (a)
improve existing school facilities, replacing rented or dilapidated classrooms or those that
cannot conform to functional pedagogical or architectural standards; and (b) expand schools
to accommodate current and expanding enrollments. Prioritization of infrastuure
subprojects would be made by SEEs in consultation with State Planing Councils (Consejo de
Panificaci&n del Estado, COPLADE) according to an Operational Manual (pam. 3.23)
which would clearly state selection criteria including,  er alia, overrowed conditions,
grossly inadequate facilities, and consultation with supervisors. The Operational Mamnal
would furher ensure that the following procedures, inter alia, be followed: (a) the CAPFCE
prototype designs would include technical drawings, budgets, and technical specifications for
at least three designs using different constuction materials for classrooms, sanitary services,
and latrines; (b) evidence of rightful ownership of land by SEP or state governments through
donation or purchase would be a condition for subproject approval; (c) in the case of civil
works to be carried out through the community model, financial resources would have been
transferred to the respective municipal government (ayunmentos). Teachers for new
classrooms would be provided and financed by state governments, but this number is



-28 -
expected to be small (approximately 350) and sustainable under state education budgets.
Assurance of teacher availability would be obtained prior to authorizing new classroom
construction under the project; and (d) School Councils would have been created and fully
operational to provide consultation and maintenance (para. 3.22). At negotiations, the
Government arovided assurances that bv October 31 of each Year. starting in 1994. the
Government would present: i) a list of schools and/or classrooms to be
constructed/rehabilitated in the next year: (ii) ewdence that lnd is available to the SEEs for
civl works: (iii) ewdence that adequa¢e staffing plans. includinf budgetarv allocations
thereto have been pnalized- and Civ) evidence that local School Councils have been created
and ar or erational rpaa. 7. 1(b)). 'lb meet urgent enrollment needs for the schoolyear
1994195, a small number of classrooms (approximately 315) would be constructed/
rehabilitated according to the CAPFCE model, subject to (a) all prior conditions related to
this subcomponent and (b) an ex-ante review by the Bank scheduled for August 1994.
3.22. New and rehabilitated classrooms would be provided with appropriate classroom
furniture, including student desks and benches and teacher desks and chairs. All schools in
the project would be provided with bookcases and shelves as needed. The cost of classroom
funiture and equipment has been included in the rehabilitation and construction costs. The
project would support an innovative maintenance program for schools based on the
operational experience (but not the financing mechanism) of the successful three-year-old
Escuela Digna program. 4/ Municipalities would receive each year a fixed amount based
on the number and type of facilities in the municipality (an estimated average of US$320 per
facility) for infrastructure and furniture maintenance. The ayuntamientos, in coordination
with the School Councils, would ensure that maintenance is carried out either by obtaining
the services of a local contractor or by purchasing materials and carrying out the maintenance
work themselves with the help of the community. In a relatively few cases (for about 5,500
existing classrooms), maintenance activities are more broadly defined to include some
rehabilitation services necessitated by years of lack of maintenance. Because there is no
previous local experience with systematic maintenance programs, the project would phase in
implementation of the maintenance program in selected areas to test mechanisms tOr trnsf*r
of maintenance funds to the ayuntamientos and to monitor their performance. Based on the
results of this maintenance modality, the program would be expanded to cover the remaning
project areas. The project would also finance printing of a maintenance handbook (currentlv
being developed with technical assistance from international architects) which would be
widely disseminated in the project areas, and the promotion program (para. 3.25(d)) would
include stressing the importance of maintaning school buildings and furniture.
3.23. An Operational Manual for the implementation of the physical infucture
subcomponent is being prepared by CONAFE in consultation with CAPFCE, with technical
assistance from iemtional experts. Technical supervision of on-going civil works will be
carried out by supervisors at CAPFCE and at SOPEs for the CAPFCE and community
24 The Escuela Digna ("Pride in Schools") is a SOLIDARIDAD-supported program for school repair
and maintenance. Using a participatory approach, part of the costs is funded by the Federal Government
(50 percent in the richer states, and 75 percent in the poorer states), part by the state (40 percent and 15
percent, respectively), and 10 percent by the local community. Since 1990, 80,000 schools have been
assisted by the program. Under the project, the proposed maintenance would draw from federal funds
and contnbutions (monetary, labor, or inkind) from local communities.



- 29 -
participation models, respectively, under terms of reference satistactory to the Bank. Each
year, technical supervision reports would be presented and discussed during the annual and
mid-term reviews (paras. 5.4-5.5) as part of the ex-ante review of infrastructure subprojects
for the coming year, and audits of project accounts (para. 4.16) would include a specific
review of a sample of infrastructure subprojects to verify that they were procured in a
manner consistent with Bank guidelines, meet the minimum quality standards, and were
priced within prvailing regionalized standar unit prices. At negotiations. CONAFE
presented to the arnk a satisfactory drft Operational Manual for inrastructure subproiects
(pam. 7.1(c)). As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government will present. satisfactory
to the Bank: (i) a inalized Operational Manual for istructure improvement: (ii) a
hanbook for self-help construction: and Niii) a handbook for buidn  and furniture
maintenance (para. 7.2(a)). As a condition of disbursement for irastructure subproiects.
the Government wll present terms of reference for technical supervision of infrastructure
subprojects under both the -CAPFCE and communitv participation models. satfactora to the
Bank pam. 7.3(a)).
Component C. Istitutional Strengthening (US$184.5 miDion including contingencies)
3.24. The main purpose of the Institutional Strengthening Component is to assist state
governments m developing manageial capacity commensurate with their newly acquired
resonsibility for operating a decentralized basic education system. The project would
support: (a) development of the management capacity at SEP, mainly CONAPE, and in
project SEEs in the areas of (i) planning and policy analysis, (ii) monitoring, evaluation, and
information systems, (iii) education studies, and (iv) project promotion and diffusion; (b)
implementation of a teacher incentives program; (c) improvement of the supervision system;
(d) improvement of the texbook and materials distribution system; and (e) administration of
the project. The four states under PARE would also receive assistance directly thuough
management training for planing and policy analysis (para. 3.25(a)) and indirectly through
institutional strengthening activities at CONAFE aras. 3.25(b)-(d)).
3.25. Subcomponent C1. Manageent Capacity (US$17.6 million including
contingencies). In the context of the 1992 decentralization agreement, SEEs are facing new
administrative challenges which require an improved set of management skills and tools to
carry out tasks previously conducted by SEP and SCEPs. The following activities would be
financed by the project:
(a)   Maagement rining for Plnning and  olicy Analysis. The project would
strengthen the capacity of the state education planning bodies, enhancing skills among
high-level officials through an integrated management training and technical assistance
program in educational policy analysis and planning (Annex 12). The training would
cover the following topics: (i) education quality and efficiency; (ii) methodologies for
policy analysis and sector performance assessment; (iii) options to reform initial,
basic, secondary, and hiu - education; (iv) the relationship between education, work
and employment; (v) education financing; (vi) resource allocation modeling; (vii)
strategic use of data collected from the education management information system;
and (viii) evaluation and measurement of educational achievements. Other education
issues which would be included in the trainng include decentralization, curriculum
reform, and language of instruction. The project would provide 90 staff-months for
overseas training fellowships and 380 staff-months of local training. Local training



- 30-
would be provided by educational and training institutions with recognized expertise
in the relevant topics. The overseas training would be provided through workshops
and internships in internationally recognized educational and research institutions.
Participants would be nominated by the SEEs and selected according to predetermined
criteria. Education officials in the four PARE states would be included under this
program. At negotiations, the Government presented the selection criteria for the
management training component. s ecifically for the overseas training fellowships.
satisfactor to the Bank (para. 7.1(d)).
(b)   Monitoring, Evaluation and Information Systems. The project would
support the strengthening of CONAFE's institutional capacity by developing its
monitoring, evaluation, and infornation processing and analysis capabilities. The
project would provide technical assistance to help develop an integrated project
management informalion system (MIS) to be implemented at both central and state
levels which would allow close monitoring and evaluation of project activities as well
as sustainable measurement of educational quality through (i) reviewing the content of
data registers, (ii) improving data collection processing and data analysis, and (iii)
supporting the diffusion of information to all levels of the educational system. Project
data collected and processed through the project MIS would add to the data banks of
the country's existing education inforTation systems and enhance CONAFE's capacity
for policy planning and analysis and for assessment of educational quality in
conjunction with DGEIR. CONAFE is undertaking an information needs study to
determine the requirements of the project MIS. Consultants would carry out the
design and development of the process evaluation system, building on data to be
collected through the project MIS, which would assess the quality and short-term
effects of various (sub)-zwnponents vis-a-vis project outcomes. Terms of reference
and consultant short list of the process evaluation system have been reviewed and
found satisfactory. Results of the monitoring and process evaluation systems would
be discussed with the Bank during the annual implementation reviews and be made
available to the states. Terms of reference for the process evaluation system are
included as Annex 13. At negotiations. the Government provided assurances that the
project MIS and the process evaluation system would be &ul operational no later
than December 31. 1994 (para. 7.1(e)).
The project would also finance development of the capacity for sustainable
assessment of the quality of primary education by supporting the DGEIR in
conducting one round of test applications in June 1996 on a sample of primary
education students in the project states. Cognitive achievement by subject would be
measured across variables such as age, grade, gender, type of school, grade,
educational modality, and geographical area. Additional data relative to school
inputs, family and community characteristics, and social and economic enviromnent
would control for school and non-school factors. This round of tests and other
technical assistance would help Mexico participate in the next international
comparative study of the International Assessment of Educational Progress,
anticipated to take place in 1997. At negotiations. the Government provided
assurances that: (i) tests. questionnaires, and administrative manuals for the testing
of primary education students would be presented for Bank review no later than
December 31. 1995: and Cii) it would carv out the testing in June 1996 and anaze
and disseminate the results in a manner satisfactorv to the Bank (para. 7.1()



- 31 -
(c)   Education Studies. The proposed project would support studies to assess
preschool, secondary, environmental, and science education to support sector policies
and programs. The studies would be coordinated by CONAFE and SEB and its
associated General Directorates and carried out by selected researchers acceptable to
the Bank. The project would finance technical assistance, survey design, and the
collection, processin, analysis, and dissemination of data and results.
The Preschool Education Study would identify major quantity, efficiency,
and equity issues affecting this education level, to appraise the relevance, efficiency,
and effectiveness of preschool education programs and recommend strategies on how
to improve this level of education to meet the LGE requirements.
The Secondary Education Study would be conducted along five dimensions:
(i) a diagnostic study on the major issues facing secondary education, incluling
quality, internal and external efficiency, curriculum, and equity; (ii) the
socioeconomic characteristics of secondary education dropouts based on aggregated
data from SEP statistics, CONAPO indicators, and household surveys, with an aim
toward developing targeting criteria for possible investment projects; (iii) the working
conditions of teachers and supervisors, attitudes toward their profession, opinions on
problems in secondary education, and opinions about their training needs; (iv) the
characteristics of effective secondary education schools; and (v) the financial
implications of the new nine-year basic education mandate.
The Environmental Education Study would review the literature and the
current state of education on the environment in Mexico, including contents of
progams at different levels, public and private institutions involved, and official
commitnents and resources invested in environmental education. Strategies would be
devised on how to systematize the fragmented experiences and recommendations
would be made on how to orient them more directly to the country's environmental
concerns.
The Science Education Study would provide analysis of a pilot experience on
cost-effective science teaching in primary schools. The exercise would consist of
implementation of two different models of science education in a sample of 270 (180
experimental and 90 control) schools in the project states under supervision from SEB
and the SPCUs. The models would be selected during the first project year after
reviewing the most important experiences in Latin America. The study would start in
the 1995/96 academic year and finish with the 1996/97 school year.
Terms of reference for the education studies (Annex 14) were discussed at
appraisal. At negotiations. the Government confirmed agreement on the final terms of-
rference, implementation schedules. and consa  short lists for the education
studies. satisfactora to the Bank (para. 7. 1(g)). Interim and/or final results and
conclusions of all studies, and follow-up action, as appropriate, would be discussed
during the project almual and mid-term reviews. The main follow-up action would be
the preparation of investment projects for preschool and secondary education.
(d)   Project Promotion and Diffusion. The project would finance technical
assistance to CONAFE and the project states for developing a strategy to promote the
project, inforim about its activities and benefits, and stimulate and sustain the interest
of all segments involved (decision-makers at different authority levels, SEP and SEE



- 32 -
officials, teachers, principals, and supervisors in the schools, parents and community
leaders, and multi-ethnic communities) to play their respective roles and contribute to
the project. The project would make extensive use of a variety of media such as
radio and television, videotapes and murals, and booklets and leaflets.
3.26. Subcomponent C2. Teacher Incentives (US$104.3 including contingencies). The
objective of this subcomponent is to increase teachers' time on task by providing monetary
incentives to teachers for serving in schools of rural and isolated communities with difficult
access and limited living conveniences (Annex 15). This system was tested in PARE with
2,700 teachers and was deemed effective at ensuring and increasing their classroom
availability (para. 2.47). Although no formal evaluation has been conducted as yet, reports
from supervisors and information from parents and PARE staff suggest that student
attendance has improved and fewer failures and a lesser tendency to drop out have been
reported. Incentives would be linked to the school and not with the teacher, and would not
be considered to be part of his/her salary and would be financed by the Bank on a declining
basis.
3.27. The project would apply basically the same criteria of school marginality as PARE.
Top priority would be given to remote project schools with the greatest need for teachers and
indigenous schools. Multigrade schools with two or more teachers in isolated areas would be
given a second priority. The Government has presented to the Bank a satisfactory list of
target schools and localities selected for the first project year. At negotiations. the
Government conrement on the list of tgMet schools and localities selected where
teacher incentives will be granted for the first Year of the project and that the selection of
schools for subsequent 3ears of the project will be discussed and agreed ex-ante with the
Bank at the annual and mid-term reviews (para. 7.1(h)).
3.28. The per-month incentive is equivalent to the average primary teacher's basic monthly
salary,v25 and is paid every three months provided the teacher has been present at the
school throughout the period. Residence in the community, however, has not been always
possible, and incentive teachers would be allowed to live in nearby villages. The local
community and the School Council would certify that the teacher has been regularly involved
with classroom teaching during the incentive period. Any minor absence would be noted and
deducted from the payment unless the teacher makes up for the lost time. About 7,000
teachers would benefit from the incentive by the end of the project. Of these, approximately
3,000 (43 percent) would be from indigenous primary schools and 4,000 from general rral
primary schools. Approximately 1,400 teachers would participate in the first year, and a
similar number would be added each subsequent project year.
3.29. Subcomponent C-3. Improvement of the Supervision System (US$21.9 million
including incentives). The project would support the improvement of the supervision system
by: (a) amplifying the role of supervisors from strictly administrators to pedagogical
advisors; (b) establishing supervision offices in strategic locations to facilitate supervision
activities and lessen supervisors' travel burdens; (c) offering travel incentives to encourage
more frequent supervision; and (d) purchasing vehicles for supervisors' use.
;5 The basic salary represents about two-thirds of teachers' total pay. The incentive would increase total
pay by about 60 percent.



- 33 -
(a)   Change in Supervisors' Role. Supervisors and education administrators
would receive extensive training (paras. 3.25(a)-(b)) and would become active
members of the "pedagogical network". Supervisors' school visits would become
opportunities for exchanges on teaching problems and for providing technical
assistance in the classroom instead of just instances for administrative control. To
reinforce their pedagogical contribution, supervisors would be eligible for selection
for special training to become course trainers (as would be principals).
(b)   Supervision Offices would be built and equipped to supplement the existing
supervision network. They would be placed in strategic locations to ensure access to
schools to be supervised, usually on the grounds of an existing school, and would
have simple document reproduction facilities to duplicate educational or informational
materials. The proposed project would finance the construction, furnishing, and
equipment for 519 supervision offices and 80 sector chief offices. The location of
supervision and sector chief offices was reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory.
(c)   Travel Incentives would be given to 926 supervisors and 160 sector chiefs in
the project areas. Travel incentives would help defray some of the supervisors' travel
expenses and encourage a more active role in promoting the quality of teaching in the
ural schools through a regular program of school visits. The incentives would be
paid quarterly against visit reports as verified by the School Councils. The value of
the incentive every quarter would be approximately US$350 for supervisors and
US$190 for sector chiefs (the difference is due to the higher frequency of travel
required of supervisors).
(d)   Vehicles. About 80 vehicles would be provided, to be used mainly by
supervisors for school and community visits. Supervisors may pay for the fuel and
use of the vehicles from their per diem allocation, or they may use public
transportation or their own vehicles, whichever is more convenient. The vehicles
would also be used by the supervisors to carry textbooks and other educational
materials from regional warehouses to their zone schools.
3.30. Subcomponent C.4. Books and Materials Distribution System (US$11.6 million
including contingencies). The project would support improvement of the existing
distribution system for textbooks, educational materials, maintenance materials, and school
furniture to ensure that all materials reach the schools when they are needed. Inadequate
storage facilities and poor distribution logistics have long hampered the Government's
national free textbook program (para. 2.12). Using early PARE experience, each state has
carried out an analysis of the flow of materials through the varous steps of the distribution
network from the supplier at one end to the school at the other and estimated the
transportation times and costs in order to assess the need for warehouse space and
distribution means while optimizing the use of other available state and community resources.
The project would finance the construction of 68 regional warehouses (see Annex 11,
Physical Infrastructure and Distribution Network) and vehicles, which would serve mostly
(but not exclusively) the project areas. The design and location of these warehouses would
be determined by an analysis of the distribution plan presented by each project state, nine of
which have been carried out. The proposals for distribution and inventory systems already
submitted have been reviewed and generally found satisfactory; all systems would be
integrated under a consistent framework. CONAFE is currently carrying out this integration



- 34 -
process, particularly in defining common norms (e.g., average transport and storage times,
waste and loss standards etc.) which would serve as monitoring indicators. Progress in the
development, integration, and implementation of the distribution and inventory system would
be reviewed annually (para. 5.4 & Annex 21).
3.31. Subcomponent C-5. Project Administration (US$29.1 million including
contingencies). The project would finance salaries, technical assistance, vehicles and
equipment, and operating costs of the PCU and SPCUs. Overall authority for project
nmanagement would be vested in CONAFE's Director General, with operational
responsibilities lying with the PCU. To better benefit from experience under PARE, a PCU
would be created that would integrate the operations of both projects; this has the added
benefit of reducing administrative costs for the first two years of the proposed project during
which PARE will be paying part of the PCU operating costs. The PCU would be staffed by
one General Coordinator, assisted by two technical units (one for project monitoring and
evaluation and the other for institutional support), and six line Directors (one each for
training, didactic materials, incentives, infrastructure, institutional development, and
administration). Each Director would be assisted by one or more analysts and regional
coordinators who would split their supervision and support duties on a geographical
basis. J  This flat organizational structure was chosen to facilitate teamwork and reduce
management levels and has been found satisfactory by the project team during a post-
appraisal mission. Technical Advisory Committees (TACs) would be established at both
central and state levels early in the implementation process to assist the PCU and to secure
necessary support and cooperation from all SEP and SEE sectors, and other institutions
involved in project activities. The central TAC would be presided by the General Director
of CONAFE and would comprise the PCU General Coordinator and, inter alia,
representatives from SEB, the Undersecretariats for Education Coordination and for Primary
Education, DGEI, DGEIR, the National Pedagogical University, UPE, and CAPFCE. State
TACs would be presided by the SEE General Director (or equivalent) and would comprise
the SPCU General Coordinator and line Directors (para. 3.32), and, inter alia, the state-level
Directors for primary and indigenous education, SOPE, and CONAFE, and a representative
of the supervisors. The composition of the TACs will vary slightly from state to state due to
their different educational organizational structures, but the overall framework and organizing
principles have been reviewed and found satisfactory.
3.32. At the state level, SPCUs would have the responsibility for carrying out the project.
Each SPCU would be staffed on a full-time basis by one General Coordinator, assisted by
one technical unit and one institutional support unit, and five line Directors (training,
incentives/evaluation, didactic materials, infrastructure, and financial administration). The
General Coordinator and possibly other managers would be existing high-ranking officials in
the SEEs (to secure the states' ownership of the project). SPCU staff below the management
level would be recruited from the existing SEE administrative structure and their salaries
would continue to be paid by the states. The proposed SPCU structure has been reviewed
and found satisfactory. The PCU and SPCU organigrams, other project management
arrangements, and the flow of funds are described in more detail in Annex 16. At
W' CONAFE is dividing the combined 14 PARE and PAREB states into two administrative regions:
Region I comprises Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacin, Puebla, San Luis Pbtosi, and Vracruz;
Region 2 comprises Campeche, Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Oaxaca, 'Ibbasco, and Yucatfin.



- 35 -
neRotiations. the Government confirned agreement on the staffing plan and terms of
reference for keversonnel in the PCU and SPCUs and on the comaosition of the TACs at
both central and state levels (para. 7.1(i)). As a condition for loan effectiveness. CONAFE
will present evidence that the central PCU is staffed satisfactorily in accordance with the
staffing plan agreed at negotiations (para. 7.2(b)).
3.33. The relationship between CONAFE, the PCU, and SPCUs (and by extension,
between SEP and SEEs) under the project would be government by Participation
Agreements signed betwveen SEP and SEEs in each of the participating states. Witi each
such participation agreement, a technical annex would set out specific guidelines and
monitoring indicators matched to the needs of each state. The four PARE states would sign
agreements covering only their participation in the management training program (para.
3.25(a)). At negotiations. the Government confirmed agreement on the final content and
form of the participation agreement and technical annexes for carring out activities under
the project to be signed with each of the project states plus the four under PARE (pam.
7.1(j)). As a condition for loan effectiveness. the Government will present evidence that for
at leas four project states: (i) participation agreements. includLng technical annexes. will
have been signed: and (ii) the respective SPCUs will have been satisfactonrly staffed (para.
7.2(c)). As conditions for disbursement to each proiect or PARE state, (i) participation
agreements incl-udng technical ann_exes will have been signed. and (i) for project states, the
SPCU will hav been staffed satisfactorilyN satisfactoiv to the Bank (para. 7.3(b)).
IV. PROJECT COST, PROCURFMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDIT
A. Project Costs and Financing
4.1. Project Costs. The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies and
taxes, is estimated at about US$616.7 million equivalent, of which about US$138.6 million
would be foreign exchange; taxes amount to about US$44.3 million (Annex 17). The table
below summarizes the estixmated costs by component. Investment costs amount to 57 percent
of base costs and incremental recurrent costs amount to 43 percent of base costs. Recurrent
costs are usually higher in human resources projects as they emphasize quality improvements
rather than expansion of infrastructure. Project costs are estimated at October 1993 price
levels and include physical contingencies of 5 percent for civil works and equipment,
furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies are calculated at 2.5 percent per year for 1994-
98. These rates have been applied to local and foreign costs as well, assuming that periodic
currency rate adjustments would compensate for the difference between international inflation
on a US dollar base and local inflation rates.
4.2. Estimated construction costs for the project area are based on unit prices per square
meter derived from current contracts and costs analyses for similar standards of construction
in corresponding facilities in the four PARE states. Estimated educational facilities
rehabilitation costs are calculated as a percentage of new construction costs. Estimated costs
of equipment, furniture, vehicles, and educational materials are based on unit prices per item
obtained in recent international and local purchases. Estimates for technical assistance and
studies are based on current rates for local and foreign experts. Cost estimates for training,
salaries and operaing costs are based on actual costs of PARE.



- 36 -
Project Cost Summary
Lca    Fbreign      Ibtal
--US$ million--
Human Resources Development                    99.8       2.6     102.4
Educational Material Resources
Teaching MateriaL & Student Packages         85.6      85.6     171.2
Reading Comers                                4.8       2.1       6.9
Indigenous Education                          3.9       2.0       5.9
Infrastructure Improvement                   93.8      24.7     118.5
188.1     114.4     302.5
Institutional Strengthening
Management Capacity                          11.6       5.3      16.9
Teacher Incentives                           97.5       0.0      97.5
Improvement of Supervision System            16.6       3.4      20.0
Books & Materials Distribution System         7.6       2.8      10.4
Project Administration                       26.6       1.0      27.6
159.9      12.5     172.4
BASE COST                                   447.8      129.5     577.3
Physical Contingencies                        5.0        1.4       6.4
Price Contingencies                          26.3       6.7       33.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST27                          479.1               616.7
4.3.   ncrement Rcurmrnt Costs. During the implementation period, the project would
add an average of about US$52.7 million per year to the recurrent expenditres budget of the
SEP Operating costs generated by the project are estimated to grow, in October 1993
prices, from US$30.5 million in the first year of project implementation to US$70.9 million
in the last year of project implementation. The incidence on the SEP budget would thus
remain small and manageable and is fully consistent with the Government's commitment to
compensatory programs through CONAFE and to increase the share of its prinary education
expenditures going to the poorest states. No additional budgetary commitments are required
from the project states as the financing of the project would fall under the federal
government's compensatory scheme. Recurrent costs under the project, in 1993 US$
millions, are estimated as follows:
94195    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99
30.5     45.4     50.5      66.1     70.9
These incremental operating costs would be generated mainly by educational materials for
students, incentives for teachers and monetary support for supervisors, salaries for
incremental staff, operation and maintenance of infrastructure, furniture, equipment and
vehicles, office supplies, and travel and subsistence costs for supervision activities. While
togedter these recurrent costs amount to 43 percent of total project costs (a level not
Z' Includes taxes and duties estmted at about US$44.3 million.



- 37 -
uncommon for primaly education projects) as noted in para. 4.1, the yearly average amounts
to less than one percent of the federal transfers to all states in 1993 and thus should be easily
absorbed by the states after project completion. Incremental recurrent costs would be
financed by the Bank on a declining basis.
4.4.  Project Financing. The proposed project would be financed by the Bank and the
federal government. The proposed loan of US$412.0 million would finance about 67 percent
of total project costs, or 72 percent of project costs net of taxes and duties of about US$44.3
million. The loan would finance 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures and 63
percent of local expenditures, net of taxes, would be financed. Such levels of local cost
fincing are justified under the project due to the highly targeted nature of project activities
(rural communities of difficult access unlikely to attract any international bidding interest)
and to the significant portion of investment funds going directly to local residents (through
community participation civil works, indigenous educational materials, incentives for teachers
and others, etc.). This is common in primary education projects both in Mexico and
elsewhere in the region. The loan would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.N. C (NAFIN),
which would make the funds ava1able to CONAFE for the execution of the project. The
federal government would finance US$204.7 million, or 33 percent of total project costs
including taxes.
iMnancing Plan
LAcal      Foireign     Total
-US$ million-
Federal Government                204.7         0.0       204.7
IBRD                              274.4       137.6       412.0
TOTAL                             479.1       137.6       616.7
B. Procurement
4.5.  The project would include procurement of new construction and rehabilitation of
educational facilities, furniture, office and computer equipment, audiovisual equipment,
educational materials, library books, four-wheel drive vehicles, studies and consultant
services. Procurement of civil works, goods and consultant services would be done
following procedures consistent with Bank guidelines. For International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), implementing agencies would use the stuidard bidding documents (SBDs) issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as agreed by the Bank to be necessary for the purpose of
the project. For Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), SBDs, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be used. All procurement would be done by CONAFE except for civil works and for school
furniture as follows: (a) procurement of civil works for warehouses would be done by
CAPFCE; (b) procurement of civil works for infrastructure improvements would be done by
CAPFCE for the CAPFCE model and by SEEs though municipalities for the community
modality; and (c) procurement of furniture would be done by CAPFCE for CAPFCE
infrastructure subprojects. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids for goods
during ICB evaluation, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The table on the next page shows project cost breakdown
by procurement methods. Annex 16 shows administion and procurement responsibilities.



- 38 -
1hble 3. PROCUREMENT METHODS BY CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Non-Bank
Category              ICB         LCB         Other      Financed    Total
Civil Works (CAPFCE)              --         43.0        30.0         --        51.9
(21.5)      (15.0)                (26.0)
Civil Works (community)           --           -5 53.2a'               --       74.3
(26.6)                (37.1)
Equipment and Furnitute           3.2         3.5         6.7k'       --        13.4
(3.2)       (3.2)       (6.1)                 (12.5)
Vehicles                          --          --          --          3.1        3.1
(0.0)     (0-0)
Education Books & Didactic       70.0         6.0         902-'&      --        85.2
Materials                       (63.0)       (5.4)       (8.3)                 (76.7)
Student Educational Packages     80.0        13.0         12.7V        --       105.7
(40.0)      (6.5)       (6.3)                  (52.8)
ming                                           --        106.3        --        106.3
(106.3)               (106.3)
Trainig Materials                 --          1.3         0.4b'        --        1.7
(1.3)       (0.4)                 (1.7)
Techmical Assistance & Studies    --                      6.7         --         6.7
(6.7)                 (6.7)
'Teacher and Supervisor           -           -          168.4d_                168.4
Incentives, Incremental Salaries &                       (92.2)                (92.2)
Other Opeating Costs
Tbtal                            153.2       66.8        393.6        3.1       616.7
(106.2)     (37.9)     (267.9)       (0.0)    (412.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank.
a/ Diwet contracting with communities or local contractors.
To be prcred through shopping.
¢' Includes US$6.1 million of direct contracting for proprietary materials.
' Includes US$14.9 million of direct contracting for mainan   ecurrent costs.
4.6.   Civil Works. Procurement for the construction of new facilities or the rehabilitation
works on the existing network, including repairs and structural reinforcement, amounting to
about US$126.2 million, would be conducted by: (a) CAPFCE through its state-level units;
and (b) SEEs through municipalities, with technical assistance from CAPFCE, SEEs, and
SOPEs to ensure adherence to technical standards and guidelines (paras. 3.20-3.23 and
Annex 11). Both CAPFCE and the SOPEs in the project states have adequate administrative
capacity and ample experience in managing school construction. For the CAPFCE
modalit, although packaging would be encouraged, contracts are not expected to exceed
US$10.0 million. Because most works would be small and scattered throughout rural
communities in ten project states, ICB wuld not be practical and the works would be
procured through: (a) LCB for packages of works costing US$300,000 or more but less than
US$10.0 million, totalling about US$43.0 million; and (b) comparison of price quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers (shopping) for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$300,000, up to an aggregate of US$30.0 million; no other procurement method is



- 39 -
expected for the CAPFCE modality. For the community modality, works would be small
and would not exceed US$50,000. Therefore, direct contracting would be allowed, provided
that no competitive procedures can be reasonably applied, for works under US$50,000, up to
an aggregate of US$53.2 million (plus US$14.9 million for maintenance recurrent costs).
Direct contracting would be carried out based on agreements between the municipality and
the community, the municipality and School Councils, or the municipality and local
contractors.
4.7. Equipment and Furniture. Equipment and furniture for educational facilities and
offices amount to about US$13.4 million. Approximately 24 percent of estimated costs, or
US$3.2 million, would be procured by SEP/CAPFCE and CONAFE at central and state
levels using ICB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Packages of furniture and equipment
valued at US$150,000 or more and less than $350,000, up to an aggregate of US$3.5
million, not expected to attract foreign bidders, would be procured using LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Furniture and equipment packages costing less than US$150,000
would be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers (local or international shopping), up to an aggregate of US$6.7 million.
4.8.  Educational Books and Didactic Materials. Educational and printed books and
materials amounting to about US$70.0 million would be procured through ICB by CONAFE
at the central level for packages costing US$350,000 or more. Packages costing US$150,000
or more and less than US$350,000, up to an amount of about US$6.0 million, would be
procured using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. For packages costing less than
US$150,000, procurement would be done on the basis of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers, up to an aggregate of US$3.1 million. Procurement of library books and
printed materials which are proprietary and obtainable from only one source (for the Reading
Corners, which draw from a selection of existing books, see para. 3.17) would be done
through direct contracting with local and international publishers that hold the copyrights; the
packages handled under this method seldom exceed US$10,000 and would not exceed an
aggregate amount of US$6.1 million. In cases where authors hold the copyright, publishers
would enter into an agreement with the author and printing would be done through direct
contracting with the publisher. SEP has many years of experience developing books,
selecting books from national and international markets, and publishing them.
4.9.  Student Educational Packages. Educational supplies and materials would be
purchased through ICB for packages costing US$350,000 or more up to a total of about
$80.0 million equivalent, through LCB in packages costing US$150,000 or more and less
than US$350,000 up to a total of about $US13.0 million, and through price quotations from
at least three qualified suppliers for packages costing less than US$150,000 and up to
US$12.7 million.
4.10. Training Materials. No ICB is expected for procurement of training materials.
Training materials would be purchased through LCB in packages costing US$150,000 or
more and up to $350,000 for a total of about US$1.3 million. Local shopping would be used
for printing of training materials costing US$150,000 or less up to a total of US$0.4 million.



- 40 -
4.11. Other Purchases Not Subject to Financing Under the Project. The purchase of
four-wheel drive vehicles amounting to an estimated US$3.1 million would be financed by
the Borrower.
4.12. Techmical Assistance, Training and Studies. Individual consultants and consulting
firms carrying out technical assistance, studies or training would be hired following Bank
Guidelines for consultants (August 1981) Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. During appraisal, the
timetables for contracting the individual consultants for technical assistance and training and
the studies under the proposed project component were reviewed and found satisfactory. The
selection and appointment of consultants for studies and technical assistance would be
consistent with the above mentioned Bank guidelines and would be done using standard
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
4.13. Prior Review. Prior review would be required for all ICB and the first contract
packages for all LCB and shopping for: (a) civil works by CAPFCE; (b) equipment and
furniture; (c) educational books and didactic materials; and (d) non-durable educational
student packages. Prior review would also be required for the first three contracts covering
three different states for civil works for (i) infrastructure subprojects by CAPFCE, (ii)
infrastructure subprojects under the community modality, and (iii) warehouses. All terms of
reference for consultant contracts would be subject to prior review. Review of selection and
hiring of consultants would occur as follows: (a) for individual consultants, in view of the
substantial number of contracts expected in the project for technical assistance and training,
contracts would be reviewed by the Bank when the value of the contract is US$50,000 or
more or when so required under specific (sub)components. All contracts with individual
consultants under this threshold would be subject to prior review and monitoring by NAFIN
(limite aut6nomo), up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million; (b) for consulting firms, all
documentation for contracts valued at US$100,000 or more would be reviewed ex-ante by the
Bank, provided that the aggregate for contracts exempt from review would not exceed
US$2.5 million. All other procurement and consultant documentation would be subject to
selective random ex-post review at a ratio of not less than one in every ten contracts by the
Bank and would be kept by CONAFE and CAPFCE at central and state levels for periodic
review during Bank supervision missions. With the above procedures, the Bank's prior
review would cover, in value aggregate, approximately 40 percent of Bank-financed contracts
which, due to the decentralized nature of the project and the large number of individual
contracts of relatively small value, is considered satisfactory.
C. Disbursements
4.14. The proposed project would be implemented over a period of approximately six years
and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999 and closed by December 31, 1999. The
proceeds of the loan would be disbursed during a six-year period as follows: (a) civil works,
50 percent of expenditures for new construction and for rehabilitadon of existing educational
facilities; (b) equipment and furniture, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 90 percent of
local expenditures; (c) durable didactic materials (including printed educational materials), 90
percent of expenditures; (d) non-durable student packages, 75 percent of total expenditures
until an aggregate amount of US$25.0 million are reached, thereafter at a rate of 50 percent
until an aggregate amount of US$45.0 million are reached, and at a rate of 25 percent for the



-41 -
remainder; (d) teacher and administrators training, 100 percent of expenditures; (e) technical
assistance, studies, public campaigns, and staff training, 100 percent of total expenditures; (f)
teacher and supervisor incentives, at a rate of 75 percent of total expenditures until an
aggregate amount of US$20.0 million is reached, at a rate of 50 percent until an aggregate
amount of US$50.0 million is reached, and at 25 percent for the remainder; (g) incremental
operating costs, including salaries, travel allowances for project supervision, operation and
maintenance of buildings, furniture and equipment, and office supplies and materials at a rate
of 75 percent until an aggregate amount of US$15.0 million is reached, at a rate of 50
percent until an aggregate amount of US$25.0 million are reached, and at a rate of 25
percent for the remainder (Annex 18). The Bank's contribution for incremental recurrent
costs, on a declining basis, would go mostly toward student packages, incentives for teachers
and supervisors, and a portion of project administration; the sharply declining percentages
would enhance the sustainability of the project beyond Bank financing within the
Government's budgetary allocations.' Retroactive financing of up to US$6.0 million
equivalent (one percent of project costs) would be provided to help cover, eligible start-up
expenditures for technical assistance, mostly for technical input and bidding specifications for
educational materials and civil works and for education studies, made on or after October 31,
1993.
4.15. Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against expenditures that would be
presented to the Bank and fully documented for civil works contracts of US$2.0 million or
maore, for goods contracts of US$350,000 or more, and for consultant contracts of $50,000
and $100,000 for individuals and firms, respectively, subject to prior review as per pam.
4.13. Claims for expenditures under contracts below those amounts and other expenditures
not covered by a contract, such as work incentives, teacher and staff training costs,
incremental salaries, travel allowances, etc. would be disbursed against presentation of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which the supporting documentation would be retained
by the SEP, CONAFE, CAPFCE, and each SEE for periodic inspection by the Bank and by
external auditors. In order to facilitate project implementation, a special account in U.S.
dollars of US$25.0 million would be established at the Banco de Mexico. Withdrawals from
the Special Account would be supported by the required documentation at the exchange rate
prevailing on the date of expenditure. Separate project accounts would be established and
monitored by the PCU in CONAFE and the SPCUs in each of the ten states and in the four
states that would have institutional strengthening only. At negodations. the Go&ernment
provided assurances that the Bank. in consultation with the Government. could suspend
disbursement to a project state which is non-ertfwming under its legal obligations (par.
7.1(k)).
DL Accounts and Audits
4.16. The PCU would maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution
of the project. Central records would reflect the resources and expenditures in connection
with the execution of the entire project. Other sets of records, one for each state, would be
maintained by the respective SPCUs, under supervision by the central PCU and would reflect
the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the project in or for the
respective project state. Data from these state cost centers would be sent to the central PCU
for consolidation purposes. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that



- 42 -
CONAFE would: Q) have the records and accounts fincluding all SPCU accounts and
technical supervision reports for infrastructure subproiects) for each fiscal year audited by
indeperdent and qualified auditors. in accordance wvith generally accepted auditing standards
and procedures. and with the specific current understanding with the Mexican authorities: (lii
furnish to the Bank. no later than six months after the end of each 3ear. a certifed coey of
the agreed audit reports: (Wii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning tlhe
records and accounts as well as the audit as the Bank would from time to time reasonablyi
request (para. 7.1(1)). For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, and for all expenditures with
respect to which withdrawals were made from the Special Account, SEP and CONAFE
would provide to NAFIN all records and accounts necessary to allow the timely performance
of its obligations, and to the independent auditors, both the records and the supporting
documentation.
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Inplementation
5.1.  Project Preparation. The primary responsibility for project preparation has rested
with CONAFE, which has been gathering valuable experience with Bank projects through the
on-going PARE and PRODEI, with technical support from SEP's Undersecretariat for Basic
Education and from the SEEs. In particular, CONAFE has been able to draw on the
experience and preliminary findings under PARE (paras. 2.42-2.54), and has been
instrumental in shaping the project to conform with and be complementary to the overall
Govermment strategy for the education sector. At the state level, SEEs will have benefitted
from two years' experience of operating a decentralized education system by the anticipated
start of implementation. Technical assistance was provided under grants financed by the
Japanese Grant Fund for the field preparation of various project components. Detailed
information was assembled on target populations for the satisfactory selection of the 511
project areas.
5.2. Project Readincss and Implementatiors. Project preparation has proceeded to an
advanced state of readiness for implementation. The teacher training courses have already
been designed and would use the existing administrative capacity at PAM, SEP's teacher
training program (paras. 3.9-3.11). Didactic materials and student packages were determined
using CONAFE's extensive micro-planning experience and would benefit from the
distribution experience under PARE (paras. 3.15-3.16). For the Reading Corners, UPE, the
originator of this proven program, has completed the preliminary selection of books and
CONAFE, which would implement it, has extensive experience in book procurement (para.
3.17). A satisfactory participatory methodology for design of indigenous textbooks has
already been developed and field tested by DGEI and a team of specialists under PARE;
technical groups which would coordinate the selection and preparation of native language
texts have already started to assemble (paras. 3.18-3.19). Infrastructure construction/
rehabilitation subprojects would be carried out according to a detailed Operational Manual, a
draft of which was discussed and agreed at negotiations, and receipt of a satisfactory final
version is a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.23). Prototype designs for new and
rehabilitated schools have been reviewed and found satisfactory, and civil works would start



- 43 -
after ex-ante reviews in August and October 1994 of the schools selected for infrastructure
improvement (paras. 3.20-3.23). The selection criteria for the management training program
was discussed and agreed during negotiations, and satisfactory terms of reference and
consultant short lists are already in place for the process evaluation and management
information systems and the education studies (paras. 3.25(a)-(c)). The schools in which
teacher incentives would be granted during the first project year have already been selected
and were reviewed and agreed during negotiations (paras. 3.26-3.28). The content of
training programs for supervisors (paras. 3.25(a)-(b)) and the location of supervision offices
(para. 3.29(b)) have been reviewed and found satisfactory. Nine of the ten project states
have submitted plans for distribution and inventory of textbooks and educational materials
(para. 3.30). The project's General Coordinator has been appointed, with excellent
experience in education and management (especially micro-planning), and the PCU at
CONAFE stands ready to benefit from the PARE experience due to the proposed integrated
PARE-PAREB PCU structure. Many qualified professionals involved in the preparation of
the project are expected to be appointed to the PCU. At the state level, a number of highly
qualified individuals were identified and have been actively involved in the preparation of the
project; it is also etpected they will be retained to staff the SPCUs. The staffing plans for
the PCU and SPCtJs were discussed and agreed during negotiations, and the appointment of
key personnel, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (paras.
3.31-3.33 & Annex 16). To ensure timely and efficient project implementation, various
start-up activities, including those related to technical and bidding specifications for
educational materials and civil works and those related to the education studies, have been
undertaken and would be eligible for retroactive financing (para. 4.15).
5.3. Project Monitoring. Project implementation would be monitored continually by
CONAFE and the state SEEs and analyzed in preparation for the annual and mid-term
reviews. To assist in the monitoring of project implementation, a comprehensive and well-
focused list of monitoring indicators, matched to individual states, would be used; these
monitoring indicators would include process and budget indicators and some proxy
measurements for quality improvement (Annx 19). At negotiations. the vernent
confirmed agreement on the set of overall and state-specific project oroeress and
performance inicators to be monitored duinng project implementation and presented and
reviewed during the annual and mid-term revews. satisfactorM to the Bk (para. 7. 1(m)).
5.4.  Annual Implemeon Reviews. The annual reviews would take place in October
of each year, starting in 1995, and would: (a) analyze the previous year's performance and
budget execution against project objectives and sector policies outlined in the Govermnents
policy letter; (b) analyze the proposed work plan and budget for the following year; (c)
discuss adjustments to be made in project's implementation schedule; (d) analyze the results
of the process evaluation; and (e) assess changes in budgetary allocations at the state level.
The proposed work plan and budget for the following year would have to be previously
defined at the central and state levels and contain a detailed description of targets and
planned activities. Plans for civil works would specify type and schedule of construction and
provide evidence of ownership or donation of land and of adequate staffing. At negotiations,
the Government provded assurances that SEP/CONAFE and SEEs would conduct, ioit
with the Bank. the Federal Finance and Public Credit Secretariaat,8' and NAFIN annual
' Secrera de Hacienda y Crilto PNblco, SHCP.



-44 -
DOrLect implementation reviews by October 31 of each year. starting in 1995 (para. 7. 1(n)).
At negotiathons. the Government provided assurances that the PCU and SPCUs would
Prepare and present to the Bank annual vrogress reports on the implementation of the project
and plans for the next Year. with targets and budgets in each progect state. by September 30
of each year. starting in 1994 (para. 7.1(o)).
5.5. Mid-Telm Review. A comprehensive mid-term review would be conducted in
October 1996 to assess project performance and initial impact in light of project objectives
and Govermnent policies in addition to review activities normally covered under annual
implementation reviews. The mid-term review would have a strong focus on the formulation
and carrying out of sectoral policies, particularly for institutional strengthening at both
central and state levels and inter-institutional cooperative arrangements. A more detailed
description of the annual and mid-term reviews is in Annex 20. The PCU would be
responsible for hiring consultants and preparing the final terns of reference for the mid-term
review, based on experience accumulated under the project and the final or preliminary
results of studies, satisfactory to the Bank, and for preparing the report with
recommendations. At e_tain  th Gt govded assunces that:  ) terms or
reece f  the mid-term reie wl be reared and presented to the -Bank for riew by
March 31. 1996: (ii) an in-deeth mid-term mrew will be conducted in October 1996. by
SEP/CNAEand SEEs. ointy with the Bank. SH C_P aNd  IN. under terms of reeence
__OAE                                         ad        M_ _ __ ___e
satifathory to the Ban!k. to assess roe-ct performance and initial iact: and ti-i on t_he
basis of this revew, action plans. satisfactoay to the Bank. wyould be iitiated b& Januaiv 31.
L997(para. 7.1(p)).
P. Project Supervision
5.6.  The proposed project would require close and intensive supervision, particularly in
the initial years. Bank missions would visit each participating state at least once a year
during the first two years of the project. For each of the first two years, supervision
requirements are estimated at about 20 staff-weeks of headquarters staff. From the third year
on, supervision requirements would decrease to about 16 staff-weeks of headquarters staff
each year. Local supervision would play an important role, particularly for supervision of
the civil works components; it is calculated that an additional ten staff-weeks per year of
local supervision would be required. A supervision plan and strategy is included as Annex
21, and an overall project implementation schedule is in Annex 22.
C Project Launch Seminar
5.7. To facilitate project start-up activities and familiarize new PCU and SPCU staff and
SEE project-related staff with the project and with Bank procedures and bidding documents,
a project launch seminar would be conducted early during the project. At negotiantons. the
Government confirmed agreement that i" vould conduct. jointlv with the Bank. a project
launch seminar within tw, months of loa. efectiveness which will include the following
agenda: (i) rvew of implementation plans and monitonng and evaluation activities: and (ii)
vi  of Droject manaement rquirements and Bank pmrcedures for procurement.
disbursements. auditinf and hirng of consul as (a. 7.1(q)).



- 45 -
VI. PROJECI BENEFIS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6. 1. The proposed project would support the Goverunent's programs for improving both
the quality and efficiency of primary education, focusing on ten states with high incidence of
poverty and low education indicators. The level of cognitive achievement of children as well
as their probability of completing the prinary education cycle are expected to increase.
Benefits would thus consist of a higher rate of human capital accumulation contributing to
economic development. They would also consist of a more equal distribution of economic
opportunities among Mexican children. Since the entire project would focus on the poorest
states in Mexico, the compensatory Basic Education Program, supported by this and previous
Bank-financed projects would contribute to the Governmentfs goal of redressing inequity- in
primary education. .4t negotiations. the Government provided assurances that progress in the
coapensatorj Basic Education ProRram and in the allocation af federal and state Rovernment
educational budgets in the proiect states will be reviewed during the annual and mid-term
reviews, with a view toward increasing the share f resources allocated to the voorer states
or pDimary educaion (para. 7.1(r)). The project wold improve the efficiency of public
resource use by reducing repetition and dropout rates and by increasing the amount of
mvestments with high social rates of returm. Teachers, supervisors and principals would
improve their productivity through systematic on-the-job training, and would contribute to the
qualty and efficiency of the primary education system in the selected states. Institutional
strengthening would contribute to a better allocation and increased productivity of human
resources within the sector, and to an enhanced capacity to evaluate and monitor educational
policies and programs. Additional benefits are expected for female beneficiaries, as research
has demonstrated that increasing the level of education of women has a significant positive
effect on the health sttus and educational attainment of their children and contributes to
lower fertility. The impact may be particularly significant for girls from the indigenous
population. Altogether, approximately 1.5 million primary school children, 53,000 teachers,
and 1,140 supervisors would raise their human capital.
B. Impact on Women
6.2. Approximately half of the children who would benefit from an improved quality of
educational services in the project area would be girls. Their opportunities to have access to
higher levels of education and better work opportnities would thus improve. Further
benefits can be expected as research has shown that increasing the level of education of
women has a significant positive effect on the health status and on the educational attainment
of their children and contributes to lower fertlity. The impact may be particularly
significant for girls from the indigenous population.
C Environmental Impact
6.3. The project would have an indirect positive impact on the environment through
greater emphasis on enironmental concerns in teacher training activities and in the content
of educational materials and through a study on envmironmental education. The project would
have no direct enviromuental effects and is classified as C



- 46 -
D. Project Risks
6.4.  The main project risks lie in the complexity of the implementation arrangements
among a relatively large number of institutions and entities within a still-evolving
decentralization process. More specifically, risks are associated with possible delays in
project execution due to the slow improvement of institutional capacity of implementing
agents at the state and, where applicable, community levels. To mitigate risks associated
with lack of inter-institutional coordination, TACs composed of representatives of the various
implementation agents would be formed at both central and state levels to ensure adequate
communication and cooperation. The risk of weak institutional capacities is addressed under
the project through technical assistance in key areas of management such as planning,
information, and evaluation. The project would benefit from CONAFE's experience at the
central level, which is currently implementing the first Primary Education Project as well as
the Initial Education Project and would easily transfer successful operational expertise as well
as familiarity with Bank processes and procedures to the proposed project. By the project's
anticipated start, SEEs would have had two years of operating a decentralized educational
system. At the local level, participation of School Councils (formed under the 1993 LGE)
would be phased in to allow for adequate training and adaptation of experience from similar
organizations already operating in different sectors. The risks identified during early project
preparation posed by the disparity in salaries for federal and state teachers (who would now
all belong to the state system) have been practically elinminated: salaries have been leveled in
all but three of the participating states, and these three states are scheduled to complete this
process in 1994 (para. 2.19).
E. Program Objective Category
6.5. The project would support a program of targeted interventions. The project would
support the national policy of compensation for regional disparities in education, which was
spelled out in the 1993 LGE. Pro,ect interventions would be targeted not only to ten of the
poorest states, but also to the poorest areas therein. The proposed project and first Primary
Education Project together would cover the 14 poorest states in the country. Most municipal
capitals and major urban areas within the selected regions have been excluded.
VII. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1.  At negotiatons:
(a)   the Government presented a final Policy Letter for the education sector (pam.
2.32);
(b)   the Government provided assurances that by October 31 of each year, starting
in 1994, the Government would present: (i) a list of schools and/or
classrooms to be constructed/rehabilitated in the next year; (ii) evidence that
land is available to the SEEs for civil works; (iii) evidence that adequate
staffing plans, including budgetary allocations thereto, have been iinalized; and
(iv) evidence that local School Councils have been created and are operational
(para. 3.21);



-47 -
(c)   CONAFE presented to the Bank a satisfactory draft Operational Manual for
infrastructure subprojects (para. 3.23);
(d)   the Government presented the selection criteria for the management training
component, specifically for the overseas training fellowships, satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.25(a));
(e)   the Government provided assurances that the process evaluation system would
be fully operational no later than December 31, 1994 (para. 3.25(b));
(f)   the Government provided assurances that: (i) tests, questionnaires, and
administrative manuals for the testing of primary education students would be
presented for Bank review no later than December 31, 1995; and (ii) it would
carry out the testing in June 1996 and analyze and disseminate the results in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.25(b));
(g)   the Government confirmed agreement on the final terms of reference,
implementation schedules, and consultant short lists for the education studies,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.25(c));
(h) the Government confirmed agreement on the list of target schools and localities
selected where teacher incentives will be granted for the first year of the
project and that the selection of schools for subsequent years of the project will
be discussed and agreed ex-ante with the Bank at the annual and mid-term
reviews (pam. 3.27);
(i)   the Government confirmed agreement on the staffing plan and terms of
refeence for key personnel in the PCU and SPCUs and on the composition of
the TACs at both central and state levels (pam. 3.32);
(;j)   the Goverrnent confirmed agreemen on the final form and content of the
participation agreement and tecbnical annexes for carrying out activities under
the project to be signed with each of the project states (para. 3.33);
(k)   the Govement provided assurances that the Bank, in consultation with the
Government, could suspend disbursement to a project state which is non-
performing under its legal obligations (pam. 4.16);
(1)   the Goverment provided assrances that CONAFE would: (i) have the
records and accounts (inchlding all SPCU accounts and technical supervision
reports for infrastructure subprojects) for each fiscal year audited by
independent and qualified auditors, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing stndards and procedures, and with the specific current understanding
with the Mexican authorities; (ii) furnish to the Bank, no later than six months
after the end of each year, a certified copy of the agreed audit reports; (iii)
firnish to the Bank such other intrmation concerning the records and
accouns as well as the audit as the Bank would from time to fime reasonably
request (par. 4.17);



- 48 -
(m)  the Govenmment confirmed agreement on the set of overall and state-specific
project progress and performance indicators to be monitored during project
implementation and presented and reviewed during the annual and mid-term
reviews, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.3);
(n)   the Government provided assurances that SEP/CONAFE and SEEs would
conduct, jointly with the Bank, the Federal Finance and Public Credit
Secretariat (SHCP), and NAFIN annual project implementation reviews by
October 31 of each year, starting in 1995 (para. 5.4);
(o)   the Government provided assurances that the PCU and SPCUs would prepare
and present to the Bank annual progress reports on the implementation of the
project and plans for the next year, with targets and budgets in each project
state, by September 30 of each year, starting in 1994 (para. 5.4);
(p)   the Government provided assurances that: (i) terms of reference for the mid-
term review will be prepared and presented to the Bank for review by March
31, 1996; (ii) an in-depth mid-term review will be conducted in October 1996,
by SEP/CONAFE and SEEs, jointly with the Bank, SHCP, and NAFIN, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assess project performance and
initial impact; and (iii) on the basis of this review, action plans, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be initiated by January 31, 1997 (para. 5.5);
(>)   the Government confirmed agreement that it would conduct, jointly with the
Bank, a project launch seminar within two months of loan effectiveness which
will include the following agenda: (i) review of implementation plans and
monitoring and evaluation activities; and (ii) review of project management
requirements and Bank procedures for procurement, disbursements, auditing
and hiring of consultant (para. 5.7); and
(r)   the Government provided assurances that progress in the compensatory Basic
Education Program and in the allocation of federal and state government
educational budgets to project states will be reviewed during the annual and
mid-term reviews, with a view toward increasing the share of resources for
primary education allocated to the poorer states (para. 6.1).
7.2.  As conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)   the Government will present, satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a finalized
Operational Manual for infrastructure improvement; (ii) a handbook for self-
help construction; and (iii) a handbook for building and fiurniture maintenance
(pama. 3.23);
(b)   CONAFE will present evidence that the central PCU is staffed satisfactorily in
accordance with the staffing plan agreed at negotiations (para. 3.32); and



- 49 -
(c)   the Government will present evidence that for at least four project states: (i)
participation agreements, including technical annexes, will have been signed;
and (ii) the respective SPCUs will have been satisfactorily staffed (pam. 3.33).
7.3.  As conditions of disbursement:
(a)   for infrastructure subprojects, the Government will present terms of reference
for technical supervision of infrastructure subprojects under both the CAPFCE
and community participation models, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.23); and
(b)   for disbursement to each project or PARE state, (i) participation agreements
including technical annexes will have been signed, and (ii) for project states,
the SPCU will have been staffed, satisfactory to the Bank (pam. 3.33).
7.4.  Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$412.0 million equivalent to NAFIN, with
the guarantee of the United Mexican States, to be repaid over a period of 15 years, including
5 years of grace. Retroactive financing of up to US$6.0 million equivalent would be
provided to help cover eligible start-up expenditures made on or after October 31, 1993.



- 50 -
[This page left blank]



- 51 -
MEXICO
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECr
ANNEXES
1.    Comparative Education Indicators
2.    Primary Education Efficiency Indicators
3.    Educational Expenditures
4.    Government Policy Letter
5.    Decentralization of Education Budget
6.    Marginality Ranking and Project Areas
7.    Indigenous Populations
8.    Participating Municipalities and Beneficiaries by Project State
9.    Financial Implications of Extension of Basic Education
10. Teacher Training
11.   Physical Infrastructure and Distribution Network
12.   Strengthening of Planning and Policy Analysis
13.   Terms of Reference for Process Evaluation & Information Systems
14.   Terms of Reference for Studies
15.   Teacher Incentives by Project State
16. . Project Management and Flow of Funds
17.   Costs and Financing
18. Project Disbursements
19.   Monitoring Indicators
20.   Annual and Mid-term Reviews
21.   Supervision Plan
22.   Project Implementation Schedule
23.   List of Documents in Project File



-53 -                                               ANNEX 1
COMPARATIVE
EDUCATION INDICATORS
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
% of Age Group Enrolled   Primary Primary  Primary   Pupils   Primary
(1990PW            Net   Pupil/  Repetition Reaching  Unit Cost Primary
Country         P a                      EnrollMY Teacher   Ratei - Grade 4k' as ratio of   Unit
Prtmary     Secondary    (%)   Ratiof                        GDP per   Costs'
lbtal |Female lotal   mle  1990    1990      (%)       (%)    Capita ,
.  _   _  _   _          .            _   ___
Argentina                    106                            19         9       73       0.011    142
Bolivia                82    78    34    31        82      25                  53       0.12|      73
Brazil                108            39            88      23         19       59       0.06      214
Chile                  98    97    74    77        86      29  -      13       97       0.10      203
Colombia              110   111    52    57        73      30         12       73       0.05       62
Costa Rica            102   101    42    43        87      32         11       90       0.90      175
Dominican Republic     95    96                            47         17       62       0.04       25
Ecuadorb'             117   116    56    118               31          6       74       0.09       97
El Salvador            78    78    26    26        70      40          8       66       0.11       63
Guatemala              79                                  47          4       60       0.04       35
Hondurms              108   109                                       16       61       0.11      115
Jamaica               105   105    60    63        99      37                  99       0.08      127
|Mexico              112   110    53 |   53        981    31          9 [      84[      0.04     114
Nicaragua              98    101    38    441    75        33          9       84
Panama                107   105    59    62        92      20         20       61       0.12      257
Paraguay              107   106    30    30        95      25          9       77       0.03       50
Peru                  126           70             95      281        14       82       0.01       23
Uruguay               106   106    77                      231                 97       0.05      26
Venezuela              92    94    35 1   411    61        23         10       86       0.09       13
Note:   Many countries use the ages of 6 to 11 for primary school enrollment cohort; however, in some countries primary
school ages include children of other ages as well. In this instance, enrollment will exceed 100%.
3! World Development Report, 1993
P   Social Indicators of Develooment 1991-1992, except fbr Mexico where the official national average is reported.
Independent estimates report higher (adjusted) estimates; while comparative (adjusted) studies report lower
estimates.
s'  In constant 1990 US$. In ImDrovinm the Ouality of Primary Education in Latin America: Toward the 21st
Centurv, LAT Regional Studies, 1993.



-54-                                  ANNEX 2
PRIMARY EDUCATION
EFFICIENCY INDICA41ORS
EFFICIENCY INDICATORS FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
BY STATE (191-1992)
States Ranked by                 Completion Dropout Repedtion        Unit Cost
Educational Index                   Rate    Rate    Ratea   Rankingb-' per Studentce
NATIONAL AVERAGE:                   58.1      4.6     9.1             493.4
Primary Education I States (average):    44.8  7.9    13.2            525.8
1. Chiapas                          31.0    13.9    13.0       3      488.2
2. Guerrero                         40.2      8.1    13.6      2      586.2
3. Oaxaca                           43.8      6.4    14.9      1      425.9
4. Hidalgo                          64.0      3.1    11.2      9      470.6
Primary Education II States (average):   52.6  5.5    10.2            473.7
1. Veracruz                         45.0     6.9    11.3       8      503.5
2. YucatAn                          44.4      6.5    11.8      6      497.0
3. Campeche                         44.6      6.0    11.3      7      546.7
4. Durango                          56.2      7.2     8.6     16      655.0
5. Tabasco                          53.2      6.1    10.0    13       403.0
6. Michoacdin                       50.3      3.7    12.2      4      427.3
7. Puebla                           58.0      4.9     9.7     14      396.2
8. Jalisco                          57.9      5.0     6.6     26      426.1
9. Guanajuato                       59.4      4.7     9.1     25      391.7
10. San Luis Potosi                 57.4     4.1    11.2      10      490.7
Non-Project States (average):       68.1      2.9     7.5              Da.
1. Sinaloa                          56.7     5.2      8.2     18      517.9
2. Zacatecas                        57.3      5.3    10.1     12      491.8
3. Nayarit                          58.2      4.7     6.9     25      574.9
4. Chihuahua                        59.2      4.6     7.3    21       590.3
5. Colima                           58.1      4.8     7.2     22      584.1
6. Sonora                           64.0      3.7     8.3     17      543.7
7. Quinta Roo                       62.9      1.3    11.8      5      546.3
8. Queretaro                        68.6      2.2    10.2    11       381.9
9. Tamaulipas                       68.7      3.4     6.4     27      504.5
10. Mexico                          69.6     2.3      7.7     19      466.9
11. Baja California Sur             69.3      1.9     7.2     23      781.4
12. Coahuila                        72.3     2.5      6.1     29      620.5
13. Nuevo Le6n                      75.4     2.9      5.5     31      517.2
14. Morelos                         78.3     2.1      6.0     30      420.6
15. Baja California                 76.5     0.6      7.6     20      687.5
16. Tlaxcala                        74.3      1.4     6.2     28      531.3
17. Aguascalientes                  74.3      1.1     7.0     24      495.0
18. Distrito Pederal                82.4      1.5     4.6     32      575.4
Source: SEP and Bank staff esthiates, 1993.
Y Ranking is based on an index of the average percentage deviation from the national average
for the three indicators.
bI 1990 N$.



-55 -                                        ANNEX 3
EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES
ibble 1. RECENT TRENDS IN TOTAL EDUCATION EXPENDITURES (1982-1991)
Olher              Total Local &          Total      Totan
Other        Total     (State &  Total     Current   Constant  As% of
Year     SEP     Secretariats  Federal   Municipal)  Private  Pesos     Pesos     GDP
(miillions ofl
l                  (%)        (%)       (%)~M  m          1982 Pe-sos)l
1982     368,608     46,819      80.6       14.3       5.1    515,327   515,327      5.3
1983     488,667     64,400      82.0      13.4        4.6    674,436   354,221     3.8
1984     826,712    101,510      74.5       16.6       8.9   1,245,464   411,044    4.2
1985    1,332,034    148,510     77.1       15.1       7.8   1,918,991   404,168    4.1
1986   2,112,674    271,339      76.3       14.3       9.4   3,125,720   377,731     3.9
1987   5,034,274    484,806      78.3       12.0       9.7   7,046,794   375,179    3.7
1988   10,120,060    956,954     80.0       11.0       9.0  13,842,634   351,711     3.5
1989   12,998,225   1,754,249    76.5       14.9       8.6  19,281,682   390,768    3.8
1990   17,662,556   3,964,136    74.6       17.1       8.3  29,015,496   455,617    4.3
1991  24,910,704   5,199,639     78.2       16.3       5.5  38,498,782   498,876    4.5
Source: SEP, 1993.
Note:  All figures in millions of nominal pesos except where stated.



Table 2. RECENT TRENDS IN TOTAL SEP EXPENDITURES:
BY SELECTED LEVELS OF EDUCATION (1982-1991)
(Percentage of Total)
Primary      Lower       Upper    Techncal/                  Other                                Total       Total
Year    School    Secondary   Secondary   Vocational  University   Education     Infra-      Misc.h/    Nominal    Constant
(Grades 1-6) (Grades 7-9) (Gr. 10-12)  (College)              Levels a/   structure                Pesos       Pesos
1982        30.4        13.1        10.2         6.2        10.4         12.2        6.8        10.7       515,327     515,327
1983        25.0        12.7         9.8         6.1        12.5         13.2        8.2        12.5       674,436     354,221
1984        22.5        12.3         7.1         4.4         9.9         16.8        6.6        20.4      1,245,464    411,044
1985        22.2        13.7         9.7         4.6        10.2         17.6        6.0         16.0     1,918,991    404,168
1986        22.7        12.9        13.8         4.9        11.4        18.3         4.8         11.2    3,125,720     377.731
1987        24.1        15.0        10.7         4.2        13.0        19.9         4.0         9.1     7,046,794     375,179
1988        23.0        14.9        11.7         5.5        12.3         18.4        4.6         9.6    13,842,634     351,711
1989        21.0        15.0        12.4         6.5         9.7        18.5         3.8        13.1    19,281,682     390,768
1990        23.0        16.0        10.6         5.5         9.9         18.3        4.0         12.7   29,015,49      455,617    3
1991        23.3        15.7         9.6         5.0        10.1        18.8         4.0         13.5   38.498,782     498,876    2
Source: SEP, 1993.                                                                                           -
Note: All figures in percentage of millions of nominal pesos.
W   Other includes other levels of education such as initial and post-graduate.
b'  Miscellaneous includes culture, recreation, sports, and planning and administration activities at the central level.
41 
ffl 



~Table 3. SEP ANNUAL ENVESTMENT & RECURRENT
EXPENDITURE BY PROJECT STATE (1987-1991)
(Millions of Current Pesos)
1987                          19818                         19819                          199019
PQSt Recurnt   invest-    Total   icRrwmat  Invest      Total    Recurrent  lIvest-    -oa      Recurrent  Invest    Tota     Recunent  Inves-  Tota
National ~ ~ ~ et                                en                             ea                           wn
* Average  76,29.5      95.7  76,390.21 146,582.8   253.5  146,83.3  206,945.0   216.0  207161.0  262,178.    57.3  262,755.8  347,756.         884.2  348,640.5
Camnpechie    29.3079.     37.1  29.345.4   56,176.9   113.3   56,290.2   80,247.5    95.3   80,342.8   98,228.11  301.9   98.53U.   132,648.2    511.4  133.159.6
DUMngO        69,733.9     68.2  69,802.1  129,587.1   167.3  129,754.3  191,030.9   183.3  191,214.2  210,046.1   482.3  210,528.4  259,125.1   726.8  259,851.9
Guamjiuaa)    86,055.5    191.3  86,246.8  179,671.3   256.2  179.927.j  235,993.1   224.3  236.217.4  307,871,.3   609.9  308,481.2  410,011.8   983.7  410,995.5
Jalisco      107,107.5    144.5 107,252.0  198,822.6   505.8  199,328.4  290,477.9   374.5  290.852.4  404,199.0  1,045.5  405.244.5  548,951.7  1,437.7  550,389.4
Miclioac4ia   126,836.3    108.3 126,944.~ 242,743.3   349.9  243,093.2  335,834.1   306.5  336,140.6  430,401.2   549,9  430,951.1  590,177.0  1,379.3  591,556.3
Puebla        95,397.6    118.7  95,516.31 186,292.0   365.1  186,657.11 265,445.3   306.6  265,751.9  343,820.1   738.3  344,558.3  470,428.5    134.2  471,772.7
&L. Pbrosl    75,872.7     78.3  75,951.0  147,212.9   233.6  147,446.5  207,438.6   203.7  207,642.   265,609.q   765.4  266,374.4  358,175.5  1,022.8  359,198.3
Takbasco      59,677.3    165.9  59,843.2  111,918.5   172.0  112,090.5  151,034.51   141.0  151,175.5  188,104.4   518.5  188.622.9  260,858.81   893.7  261,752.5
Veracrz      175,805.0    281.8 176,086.8  343,666.1   835.3  344.501.6  511,093.7   691.4  511,785.2  644,815.3  1.118    645,934.2  855.553.   1,635.9  857,189.6
Yucathn       47,045.8     60.9  47,106.7   91,129.6   163.2   91,292.8  124,947.7   136.0  125,083.7  154,950.31   302.6  155,252.9  193,225.2    575.2  193,8004 
Project      872,839.7   I,2550 874,094.5 1,687,220.4  3,161.6 1,690,382.0 2,393,543.4  2,662.6 2,396,20.0 3,048,044.7  6,433.2 3,054,477.9 4,079,155.6  9,30017 4,088,456.3 
Area Total
Totalz
National     2,36,130     2,967 2,368,097  4,544,067    7,858  4,551,"    6,415,296   6694.5  6,421,991  8,127,532   17,897  8,145,4291 10,780,447   27,409 10,807,856
Proect
states          36.9%    42.3%     36.9%      37.1%    40.2%     37.1%      37.3%    39.8%      37.3%      37.S%    35.9%     37.5%      3.%      33.9%      37.8%
sare of
iTota       
Souwce: SEP and Bank staff estimaes, 1993. 



Table 4. EDUCATION EXPENDITURES By pROJECT sTATE (1988l199)
1988                                199                                  MO99                                 19
ProJect States   Federal IState  IPrivate    Total  IFederalI State   Private    Total   Fedenal   State   Private    Tota    Federa    State   Private     Total 
National Average     76.31    15.0     8.7   13,842.61    75.6    15S.8     8.61  19,281.7    76.0    16.0       8.0  29,015.5    78.2    16.3       5.5   38,498.8
Campeche             87.61    11.4     1.0       98.51    84.3    14.8      0.9     145.6    83.9    15.2        0.9   197.555     88w9    10.5      0.6       270.9
DuiaWg               76.8    IS.9      7.3      248.1    78.9    14.2       6.9     346.2    75.2i    16.7       8.11  428.712    78.9    15.31    5.8         535.0
Guanajuap            69.0    23.0      8.0      410.7    72.4    19.41    8.2       527.4    71.3    19.9        8.81   717,205    76.7    17.41     5.9       955.5
Jalisco              58.4    23.6    18.0       794.81    59.1    24.3    16.6   1.133.6    58.8    22.7    18.8  1,454.062    61.7    23.5    14.8    1,640.6
Michoacan            82.71    1 1.8    5.5      460.91    83.5    11.01     5.5     607.6    78.8    15.41       5.8   829,8931    83.4    12.8      3.8    1.127.7
Puebla               75.01    16.0     9.0      481.81    76.6    14,8      8.6     662.6    75.4    15.01    9.6   865.911        83.4    1031    6. 'I    1.163. 1
00
San Luis 'Potosi     85.0      9.0     6.0)    273.31    84.9      9.3      5.81    373.2    84.7       8.9      641  491.461      90.8      4.9     4.3       643.1
Tibbasco             67.71   28.9      3.4      239.9    72.6    24.0       3.4      316.9    70.4    26.0       3.61  442.126     79.6    18.4      2.0       691.9
Wmcrumz              64.71    29.6     5.        45.6    66.5    28.11    5.4    1.174.9    63.71    30.5        5.81 I.S84,403    72.4    23.61    4.0    2,020.7
Yucata               72.11    22.2     5.7      197.81    71,7    22.9      5.41    276.0    79.21    14.2       6.6     327.2    80. 1     1571    4.2        457.2
Project Area Total   73.9    19.1    69.6   4,051.4    79.1    19.6    68.9   5464.0    74.1    18.5    74.4   7,338.5    79.6    15.2    51.7               9,505.8~
National Tota 
Current Pawo)    11,077.0  2,170.9  1,253.1   13,84.6 14,565.5  3,415.   1,651.3  19,M81.  22,182.5  4,763.1  2,401.   29,01.5  30,110.3  6,258.4  2,130.0   38,4988
-01   ~       ~0
Project Sakte's 
Share of National
ITotal             25,7%    393      277%      28.1%    27A.4    32.7%    277%,   28.9%    23.2%    31,9%,  27.7%        25.1%,  24.2%    26.1%    27.7%1    24.7%  ~
Soutte: SEP and Bank staff esdtemas, 1993.
>



59-                                   ANNEX 4
POLICY LETTER
LETIER OF SECIOR POLICIES
(TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH TEXT)
SECRETARIAT OF PUBLIC EDUCATION
SUBSECRETARIAT OF EDUCATIONAL COORDINATION
Letter No.
Mexico, D.F., March 4, 1994
Mr. Edilberto Segura
Director, County Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
In accordance with World Bank requirements for financing the "Progam to Reduce Failure
Rates m Basic Education (PAREB), I am pleased to inform you about the main points of the
National Educational Policy with respect to basic education:
A.   GENERAL POLICY
1.    Over the past five years, the Mexican Government has carried out structural reforms
aimed at: redefining the role of the State; modernizing the economy and creating
conditions to encourage sustained growth of productive capital and to respond
effectively to the most pressing needs of the Mexican people.
2.   It has become obvious to the Government that the main priority for a modem Mexico
is investment in human capital. Unless the economically active population (PEA) is
comprised of a critical mass of educated, hard-working citizens, it would not be very
realistic for our country to set ambitious goals with regard to domestic production and
international competitiveness. Education has assumed its essential role in the
country's overall preparation of plans to achieve comprehensive development.
3.    The 1989-94 Education Modernization Program, part of the 1989-94 National
Development Plan, was undertaken to transform the country's educational system; in
1992, basic educational and teacher trainig services were tansefeed to states; and in
1993, the professional teaching career program was instituted and nine years of basic
education became mandatory. The 1973 Federal Education Law was replaced by the
General Education Law. The Government pledged to provide a quality, efficient
educational system and to seek a new relationship between government and society
and among the three levels of govenment, as well as more active social participation
in education.
4.    Constitutional Reforms. Articles 3 and 31 of the Constitution were amended in
1993 to: (a) guarantee all individuals the right to an education and the Goverunent's



-60-                                     ANNEX 4
POIICY LETTER
obligation to provide it; (b) extend mandatory education to the secondary school level;
(c) ensure the national character of basic education; (d) make parents responsible for
seeking mandatory education for their children; and (e) end the uncertain legal status
that affected educators.
5.    State-Administered Education. Under the framework of the National Agreement for
Basic Education Modernization, and as a substantive part of the reorganization of the
educational system, over a six-month period in 1992 the Federal Government
transferred educational institutions to state governments, including all technical and
administrative elements, duties and obligations, property and real estate, as well as
financial resources, which the Secretariat of Public Education had been using to
provide preschool, primary, secondary, special and teacher-training services.
Under the auspices of this new state-administered educational system, an enormous
effort was made in terms of administration and concerted planing, includig the
transfer of approximately 100,000 schools, 22 million items of property, agreement
with state governments on their joint responsibility for providing educational services
and hiring a teaching and administrative staff of approximately 700,000 teachers and
workers, and graning N$16 billion to make state governments responsible for the
education of 13.5 million students, 10.2 million of them at the primary level. State-
administered education has consolidated the national redistribution of authority,
strengthened state and municipal levels of decision-making, and encourged better
coordination between local authorities and the community. State educational systems
thus become extremely important and are responsible for providing basic and teacher-
taining services, while the Federal (Cental) Educational System is responsible for
national educational policy and uniformity.
In order to ensure proper operation of basic educational and teacher-training services,
tie Federal Government agreed with state governments to provide ongoing technical
and administrative assiste, as well as any other type of assistance that states may
require, and that states are required to inprove control, monitoring and inspection
procedures in order to view development of the state educational system in a more
objective, precise and standardized manmer. School, Municipal and State Councils
were created for the same purpose; these Councils, with social participation in the
educational process, will monitor educational activities, propose and manage resources
and solutions to problems under their jurisdiction. Liewise, state govemments are
obliged to provide the Federal Govermment with reliable, timely infbrmation on
financial and budgetary resources dealing with planning, programming and statistics.
Chapter II, section four, of the General Education Law also males provision for
assigning the assessment of the national educational system to the Secretariat of Public
Education, making all public and private institutions responsible for assisting and
cooperating with educational authorities in order to carry out this assessment,
including providing required data and support in order to carry out statistical and
analytical reviews.



-61-                                   ANNEX 4
POUCY LETTER
State-administred education also implies the decentralization of educational activities
from state govenments to municipal authorities. This process is currently being
developed and is strengthened by established mechanimsm contained both in the
General Education Law and in the agreements formalizing state-administered
education.
6.    Quality of Education. The achievement of quality education with sufficient coverage
is the key objective of the educational policy proposed by the 1992 National
Agreement of Basic Education Modernization. To achieve this, three basic strategies
were set forth: (a) reorganization of the educational system; (b) reformulation of the
curriculum and teaching materials; and (c) public appreciation of the role of teachers.
The reorganization of the educational system is now underway, and local-level
decision-making on educational services, a key element in achieving improvement in
the quality of education, is beginning to take shape accordingly.
As part of the strategy proposed in the National Agreement, a comprehensive reform
of the curriculum and of teaching materials has started and will be completed this
year. Thanks to this reform, a new preschool education curriculum came into effect
in 1992 which is more in line with the country's public education needs; it includes
parents' participation and is better organized so that Mexican children can progress in
a gradual and systmatic manner. New primary education curricula and programs
came into effect in 1993, along with the first new set of free textbooks, as a result of
curriculum reform. With this reform, it is expected that students will learn reading,
writing, oral expression and mathematics in a natural, effective and creative manmer;
acc,ire sufficient knowledge about the natural and social world in which they live;
study history, geography and civics in a systematic manner; lear about and
appreciate other types of human communication and expression such as music and
literature, become aware of human rights, and acquire a solid background in human
values.
Likewise, in 1992, in response to the broad consensus of teachers, specialists and
parents, a new curriculum and basic course program were instituted to replace the
previous area program, increasing the teaching of Spanish language and mathematics
to five hours per week. Educational content is now more relevant, of better quality,
and covers more class time, as required in the 200-a  school year specified by the
Genefal Education Law. This implies an increase of 150 hours per year which will
be used to enrich the learning process.
In the country's educational process, teachers are the main protagonists of educational
reform. This encourages and strengthens public appreciation of the role of teachers
while promoting the processes of teacher training, in-service courses, improving
salaries, and strengthening the professional teaching career.
During this Administation, teachers have received yearly salary increases which have
raised their standard of living while exceeding the rate of inflation. Even the lowest
teacher salary has improved substantially from 1.57 to nearly 3.5 times the minimum



-62 -                                   ANNEX 4
POLICY LETTER
salaries between 1988-1993. Federal and state governments are also committed to
continuing their gradual, sustained efforts to promote better salaries.
A new instrument to recognize teachers' work, the professional teaching c-areer
program, came into effect in 1993, retroactive to 1992. This consists of a horizontal
promotion system which reinforces teacher incentives and salaries. The objectives of
this career program are to: (a) increase the quality of education by acknowledging
and encouraging the work of the best teachers; (b) increase interest in in-service
courses for teachers by providing high salaries to better teachers; (c) recognize
teachers' performance and tenure as well as their academic training, knowledge and
participation in in-service courses; and (d) acknowledge the dedicated, professional
contributions of teachers at the levels and in the areas in which they work,
particularly those who teach in schools in underprivileged communities. 450,000
basic education teachers, 57% of those eligible, have joined the professional teaching
program.
7.    Educational Efficiency. In 1991 the Mexican Government began the Solidarity
Schools program with the joint efforts of the Secretariat of Public Education, the
Secretariat of Social Development under the National Solidarity Program, and state
governments, which pooled their resources and worked together to reduce inequality
and inefficiency in those elementary schools with the country's lowest levels of
educational efficiency.
This program's strategy is to diversify the provision of materials and benefits to
students, teachers, schools and communities and thereby reduce educational
imbalances and promote the integrated development of those schools with the poorest
performance rates.
Under the project entitled Proposal for Teaching Written Language and Mathematics
(PALEM), the Secretariat of Public Education provides teachers of the first two
grades of primary school with technical and pedagogical inputs to support childrenfs
leaming of reading, writing and mathematics in the classroom according to the
standard syllabus, and thereby try to avoid the need for children to repeat a school
year.
Another effort aimed at increasing the final efficiency of primary education is thc
project entitled Preventive and Compensatory Assistance, better known as Assistance
for Children with Leaming Disabilities. The purpose of this program is to prevent
the need fo.r children with learning disabilities to repeat a school year. It also
provides special learning materials to provide such children in grades one and two
with special learning materials to help them complete two grades in one school year,
as well as materials which are appropriate for the level of maturity of those students
who are older than their classmates.
The policy of adding missing grades to those schools which do not offer complete
primary education is being continued, and schools taught by only one teacher are
being converted into schools with two or three teachers, as needed. These measures



-63 -                                  ANNEX 4
POLICY LETIER
have contributed to an improvement in the index of primary education efficiency from
55 to 61.1% between 1988-1992.
8.    Compensatory Role. After state governments assumed the responsibility of operating
the educational services previously handled by the Secretariat of Public Education at
the state level, the Federal Govermment has been better at -- to promote its
compensatory role, since it is better able to design and implement targeted programs
to solve the problems and handicaps of more disadvantaged social groups and regions.
Thus, PARE (Programa pam Abatir el Rezago Educativo) began in 1992 in four
states with the lowest educational indices (Oaxaca, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Chiapas).
In its first year, the program assisted 615,000 primary school students in 9,000
schools by means of efforts to improve students' performance, reduce the shortage of
classrooms, train teachers, increase the distribution of books and learning materials,
and strengthen school supervision and assessment.
In order to improve both the quality and efficiency of preschool education among
preschool-aged children and expand its coverage, financed in parallel by a World
Bank loan, preparation of the Initial Education Development Program (PRODEI)
began in 1993 in ten states in which 52% of the population under the age of four lives
in poverty. The objectives of this Program are to: prepare children of low-income
families to begin their schooling, improve their performance and stay in school; train
parents, especially mothers, in improved child-rearing practices; and strengthen the
technical capacity of participating states.
In 1994, PAREB (Programa pam Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n B&sica) will begin
operating in ten states, under the coordination of CONAFE, which is responsible for
carrying out the above-mentioned compensatory programs.
Educational alternatives for rural, indigenous and disadvantaged urban populations
have also been improved, since the majority of children who do not receive primary
education belong to these groups. In this context, strong encouragement has been
given to indigenous education, over the past ten years, enrollment has grown at an
annual rate of 4.2%, while overall enrollment in the same period has seen a decline
of 0.5%. The purpose of this type of service is to try to provide indigenous
populations with a primary education whose general and specific contents allow
students to realize their potential and which reinforces their indisputable right as
members of an ethnic group to preserve and cultivate their respective values, customs,
and traditions.
Primary school textbooks and preschool teaching materials are being published for al!
of the country's ethnic groups. By 1997, all required materials are expected to be
ready for all languages and their dialects, depending on preponderance and the
availability of experts to prepare them. Work is also being done on Spanish language
texts, and 50% of the anticipated required texts are expected to be met by the end of
1994. Regular and special training programs and strategies are being improved so
that more teachers can join the indigenous education service to teach regular and



-64 -                                  ANNEX 4
POLICY LEITER
community courses. A new indigenous education model will be developed and
initiated through CONAFE, to strengthen the teaching of native languages arid ease
transition to Spanish.
In order to serve those non-indigenous rural communities with 5 to 29 school-age
children and which lack regular educational services because of their geographic
location and difficult access, CONAFE operates a community education model.
This model tries to facilitate the learning of reading, writing, mathematics and science
in a critical and analytical manner, with a view to providing basic education geared
towards life, work, and study. In 1992, 84,754 students in 7,853 communities were
served.
In order to serve groups who require specialized educational schemes, the following
programs are in operation: the Primary Education Model for Migrant Children,
serving children of migrant farm workers who relocate periodically; the Accelerated
Primary Education Service (SEAP 9-14) for children who have joined the job market
too early; and the Drop-out Education Model for children between the ages of 10 and
14, offered by the National Institute of Adult Education.
Compensatory programs, supported by external financing, use these resources to
implement measures that encourage children to stay in school, especially those that
are aimed at improving the quality of education as demonstrated by better learning,
both concrete and permanent. The Mexican Government, at its various levels, is
gradually absorbing the costs of the measures taken during project operation so that
they become institutionalized automatically, thereby assuring their stability and
continuity. In particular, the Federal Government will continue supporting the
poorest states, in relation to their financial ability, until their educational indicators
reach the national average.
9.    Texbooks. In order to make primary education truly free as stipulated in the
Mexican Political Constitution, the National Commission on Free Textbooks
(CONALITEG) was created in 1959 to produce and distribute books at no cost to
students in all of the country's public and private schools. These textbooks guarantee
the teaching of a minimum level of knowledge and skills to be learned by all Mexican
children, with no distinction in terms of their economic or social status, this embodies
the principle of educational fairness and social justice. Nearly 100 million books
were distributed in 1992 to students and teachers.
10.   Comuunity Participation. The magnitude and significance of the task of educational
modernization requires the participation of all levels of society and is a national
responsibility. The General Education law therefore requires educational authorities
to promote social participation in activities which are aimed at strengthening and
increasing the quality of public education and expanding the coverage of educational
services. In order to meet this requirement, social participation councils have been
created at national, state, muniicipal and school levels; these councils have enabled



-65 -                                   ANNEX 4
POLICY LETrER
parents, teachers, educational authorities and members of the community to participate
in day-to-fy educational work and in reorganizing the school system.
11.   Educational Resources. Both the National Agreement for Basic Education
Modernization and the General Education Law of 1993 indicate the need to allocate
greater budget resources to public education. In terns of federal educational
expendiures, the Government has made serious attempts to recover levels prior to the
1982 crisis. In fact, total expenditures (public and private) in 1993 were 5.3% of
GNP The Government now assigns the greatest importance to education, since it is
the cornerstone of economic growth, as will be shown by the increasing participation
of the educational budget within the total federal budget. Along with compensatory
programs carried out by the Federal Governent, states, in keeping with the
expanded role of the state-adminstered educational system, have increased budget
amounts to promote education. Thus, in agreements signed between the Federal and
state governments to formalize the National Agreement for Basic Education
Modernization, states undertook the obligation of presenting to their respective
legislatures each year a proposal for state resources - in keeping with their
respective public financial status - to be used for basic education and teacher
taining, in increasing real terms, in addition to those received from the Federal
Government. The Federal Government promised to transer funds, in keeping with
available resources as provided for in the National Expenditure Budget approved for
each fiscal year, to state govemments so that they are able to administer the schools
utnsferred to them, meet commitnents assumed under the Agreement, and raise the
quality and coverage of the educational services for which they are responsible.
Whenever possible, these transfers should imply greater resources each time.
If states use these resources for purposes other than those agreed, appropriate
measures will be taken with respect to any relevant civil and criminal administrative
responsibilities, as stated in current legislation.
B.   SPECIC ISSUES
12.   Nine Years of Mandatory Education. With the amendment of Article 3 of the
Mexican Constitution, secondary education became mandatory. Basic education now
includes nine years of mandatory education: six years of primary school and three
years of secondary school. The country has sufficient capacity in place to serve all
those who require secondary education in accordance with the new constitutional
requirement. In order to expand coverage, the criteria for educational service
planning have been streamlined, and micro-planning exercises are being carried out to
identify needs and install services, even in small communities through the use of
televised secondary school teaching (which has proved effective over the years). The
Federal Government has allocated resources for the purchase of satellite dishes for
localities where television signals either do not reach or are unclear.
In order to expand basic education, the Secretariat of Public Education has designed a
Basic Education Popularization Program, to be implemented in 1994, which will
encourage parents' and students' interest in requesting preschool and secondary



-66 -                                  ANNEX 4
POLICY LETTER
education services, especially in the most disadvantaged areas, and in preparing new
strategies, types and sources of financing in order to meet new demands and achieve
coverage similar to that of primary education. Encouragement for televised secondary
school education will be particularly important in view of the successful results
achieved in this type of teaching.
Similarly, work is being done on designing new, more efficient teaching materials,
with emphasis on free textbooks, based on new primary and secondary curricula and
programs.
13.   Development of Early and Preschool Education. One of the Mexican
Government's key objectives has been to achieve the highest possible levels of
nutrition, physical and mental health, and of educational development among children
from birth to age 5. The main strategies include:
(a)   The National Action Program, under the framework of the "World Children's
Summit - UNICEF", to ensure increased federal expenditures for the health of
infants, preschoolers and mothers; nutrition; education; basic sanitation; and
assistance to children in particularly difficult situations, in order to reduce the
indices of mortality, illness, malnutrition and unsanitary conditions, among
others.
(b)   The program to provide preschool, primary and secondary education to all
who require it. This program is a result of the Government's obligation to
provide such services, stipulated in the Constitution as revised on March 5,
1993.
(c)   The Early Education Development Program, to provide guidance to parents on
educating and treating their children from birth to age 5 and beyond.
The basic policy behind all these strategies is to give priority to the poorest rural and
indigenous populations as well as underprivileged urban people, in order to achieve
equality in education.
14.   Reduction of Salary Differences. Under the state-administered educational system,
state authorities are committed to reducing by four percentage points per year the
difference between the combined salary of transferred workers and that of workers
who were already part of the state educational system.
In order to carry out this process, general guidelines on calculating the reduction of
salary differences in each state were drawn up and agreed upon with the National
Teachers' Union (SNTE), with the participation of specific commissions to define
salary differences in each state.
Payment of salary differences began in December 1992, retroactive to the beginniDg
of the school year in September. Thanks to the budget efforts of those states with
significant differences, the agreed commitment to gradually reduce differences was



-67 -                                  ANNEX 4
POLICY LETER
completed, and the process has concluded throughout the country, with the exception
of three states in which it will be completed in 1994. The program benefits 427,000
educational workers, with a cost to Federal and state governments of over N$500
million.
15.   CONAFE:s Role. CONAFE, a decentralized agency with a public interest and its
own legal status and equity capital, was created in 1971 to collect additional economic
and technical resources, both domestic and foreign, and use them to further the
development of Mexican education. Based on the Parastatal Agency Law (which
regulates this type of institutions), it has complete autonomy to develop its own
functions, subject only to its governing authority.
Conceived as an alternative solution to the country's educational problems, CONAFE
faces the challenge of generating ideas and activities to bring education to the most
disadvantaged rural areas and to collect and administer resources for educational
programs in an efficient, effective and imaginative manner. Among its most relevant
achievements is the CONAFE primary education model which has served scattered
localities in which children would otherwise have not had this opportunity.
The Mexican Government has granted CONAFE full responsibility to conduct the
PAREB, both in direct management of most activities and in coordinating the
activities of other federal or state agencies dealing with the project. In carrying out
its duties, it enjoys autonomy guaranteed by the Law, without being conditioned by
any fumre regulations. Other institutions play a secondary, but no less important,
role in managing resources.
16.   Flow of Funds and Levels of Responsibility. The decision to use a more centralized
flow of funds, mainly under the control of CONAFE, as opposed to a decentralized
flow of funds, was made for two important reasons. First, funds would come from
the federal account, "international loans (branch 0026)" to SEP and states; by law, the
funds in this federal account cannot be combined with state funds. Second, according
to the Constitution, each state is autonomous, and therefore state treasury funds are
considered inalienable rights. Thus, it is much more desirable to maintain central
control of PAREB funds in order to avoid the risk of financial control. In keeping
with the state-level strategy, states would be responsible for administering
subcomponent accounts.
17.  IFderal Compensation Scheme. The Federal Government is incorporating funds for
PAREB in a special account. Federal compensation funds will be disbursed as stated
in the PAREB description. States are not obliged to participate, but may contribute
incremental budget allocations for basic education (see participation agreements).
18.   Educational Pblicy. Federal and state govermments and private institutions regulate
their respective educational activities based on article 3 of the Constitution and its
regulatory statute contained in the General Education Law, issued on July 12, 1993
and published July 13, 1993, which, as stated in its first transitional article, became
law the day after publication (July 14, 1993). All other regulatory provisions which



- 68-                                  ANNEX4
POLICY LETTER
are not in opposition to this Law remain in effect. Thus, the General Education Law
is pennanendy in effect and requires no additional regulations. The operation of the
Secretariat of Public Education and its agencies is clearly regulated by SEP's Internal
Regulations, which authorized officials may modify or update in the future, as slated
for the next administraton based on a previously evaluated consolidation of state-
administered education.
19.   Participation in the International Assessment of Educational Performance. In
order to continue encouraging the process of exchanging experiences and horizontal
cooperation, Mexico is participating in Phase m of the International Assessment of
Educational Performance. The purpose of this study is to compare learning rates
among children in various countries between the ages of 9 and 13 in the areas of
mathematics and science, and to identify the types of cultural environments and
educational practices associated with high academic performance.
The results of this study may be used, in a comparative framework at an international
level, to identify the relationship between academic performance and Mexican cultural
and educational factors, and to facilitate decision-making on raising the quality of
education. The results will also be used to experiment with new methods and
techniques to improve the institutional technique of educational assessment in Mexico,
n order to provide feedback on curriculum design, teacher training and the
production of learning materials at various levels of basic educadon.
The above is a brief summary of the National Educational Policy, dealing with basic
education, which we hope will serve as a frame of reference for the objectives, actions and
goals of PAREB.
Sincerely,
ESTEBAN MOCTEZUMA BARRAGAN
UNDER-SECRETARY OF EDUCATIONAL COORDINATION
cc:   Lic. Fernando Solana Morales, Secretary of Public Education
Dr. GuiUermo Ortiz Martinez, Under-Secretary of Finance and Public Credit
Lic. Carlos Ruiz Sacrisdn, Under-Secretary of Expenditures, Secretariat of Finance
and Public Credit
Lic. Jos6 Angel Gurria T1evifto, General Director of National Finance
Ing. Jos6 A. Carranza Palacios, General Director of CONAFE
Act. Fernanco Agraz Rojas, General Director of Planning, Programming and Budget,
SEP
Mr. Kye Woo Lee, Chief, Human Resources Operations Division, Department II,
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, World Bank



-69 -                                   ANNEX S
DECENTRALIZATION
OF EDUCATION BUDGET
DECENTRALIZATION OF EDUCATION BUDGET
Pre-DecentmHzation
1.    Prior to April 1992, the educational budget was distributed under a centralized
budgetary systen to the SCEPs at the state level, which remained organically part of SEP.
Little discretion was given to the states in terms of reallocating resources. The system was
highly centralized and became increasingly inflexible over time. Actual expenditures in any
one state were driven by agreed targets and objectives for that state, with the application of
unit costs. TWo biases favoring the richer states tended to operate under this system. First,
teacher salaries are indexed to one of three cost-of-living zones, resulting in higher per capita
salary expenditures in the better-off states; since salaries constitute 96% of primary school
costs and 99% of lower secondary school costs,J' this results in relatively higher allocations
to the richer states. Second, given the lack of resources for investments, budget allocations
were made based on existing ifrastructue - which had not changed since the mid-1980s -
and thus favored those richer states with more facilities.
Ibble 1. State Contributions to Primary Education Expenditures, 1992
Share of State Budget    State Primary
Spend on Primary Education   Unit Cost
(percentage)      (New Peso)
Primary Education E States
1. Campeche                                   16.3%                786.3
2. Dupo                                       40.4%                845.8
3. Guanajuato                                 12.3%                214.0
4. Jalisco                                    23.5%                621.3
5. Michoacin                                  13.2%                213.7
6. Puebla                                     24.7%                450.7
7. San Luis Pbtosi                             9.8%                657.8
8. Tabasco                                     4.8%                243.8
9. Veracruz                                   29.4%                554.2
10. YucatAn                                    10.1%               240.3
Source: SEP, 1993.
Note: Excludes Distrito FedA.
2.    The contributions of the project states to primary education financing is highly
variable. As Ikble 1 indicates, in 1992, state contributions to total primary education
expenditure within the state nged from 4.8% (Trbasco) to 40.4% (Durango). These
contributions are highly correlated to the states per capita income. Liewise, the share of the
states own resources allocated to education strongly mimics the states' primary educational
unit costs, ranging from N$243.8 (Tabasco) to N$845.8 (Durango) per student.
11Excluding b=ay capital imsnuu.



-70 -                                  ANNEXS
DECENTRAUZATION
OF EDUCATION BUDGET
Decentraization - The Budget Process
3.    The decentralization of the education budget has changed the nature of the control and
allocation of governmental resources for education which has been historically highly
centralized. Fiscal relations between the federal government and the 31 states and the
Federal District are defined by the Constitution. SHCP is responsible for taxation and
revenues, including the revenue-sharing formulae affecting local governments. National
Development Plans and sector expenditure budgets are approved by the planning authorities,
excluding those financed by parstatals from their own revenues. Before the
decentralization, the federal government funded both capital and recurrent costs of education
through sharing capital costs with state and municipal administratons through agreements
(convenios). Since decentralization, the federal government has given direct managerial
responsibility to the states and transferred funds for basic education for the operation of the
system to the states, giving them more discretion in the use of the funds.
4.    The national education budget is developed according to each five-year National
Development Plan (the current Plan runs through 1994). SEP develops annual operating
programs (Pgrgnmas Operautivos Anuales, POAs) in May/June of every year, basing state
allocations according to agreed physical targets and associated costs, taking into account the
projected enrollment and population projections. In the past, various categories of
expenditures have not been fungible, but decentralization is allowing states more control over
how to spend their budgets. The reality, however, is that the extremely high percentage of
recurrent expenditures in the federal transfers leave little room for states to adjust their
spending according to their own priorities. Education funds are distributed beginning in
Jamuary of every year. Each month, a portion of the budget (usually 8%) is disbursed to the
states and only in September of every year do states get an additional increment to allow for
price contingencies. The specific price contingencies are determined during the May/June
POA annual exercise.
5.    Educational budgets will continue to need to be enhanced by state budgets. Local
governments, including state and municipals, use standard budgeting and accounting formats
which divide expenditures by input categories: (a) personnel costs; (b) goods and services;
(c) general expenses; (d) equipment and plants; (d) public works and construction; (e)
miscellaneous expenditures; and (f) debt service. State Comptroller offices will be counted
on increasingly to promote improved budgeting practices.
Iuancial Efficiency Due to Decentralization
6.    Decentralization should promote two areas of efficiency. First, SEEs will have
greater freedom to make investment and program choices based on their respective policies
and priorities and reflecting state-level demand; this is important because Mexican states are
very heterogeneous and thus exfhibit a wide variety of demand for educational services.
Second, decentralization will foster local accountability in the management of educational
resources, both in the execution of projects and the operation of services. Under the project,
selected SEE officials will benefit from management training programs which will raise the
institutional capacity at the state level and allow them to apply funds more efficiently.



-71-                                              ANNEX 5
DECENTRALIZATION
OF EDUCATION BUDGET
Table 2. Relationship Between Unit Cost, Salary Zone, Educational Efficiency and
Publkc F1nances in Education
-Education Sector-                        Primary Educatton
States Ranked by Lowest Tbtal  Federal    State     Ibtal     Federal    Salary   Composite  Share of
Tbtal Unit Costs    Unit      Unit       Unit       Unit      Unit      ZoneS     Indexy'  Tbtal Fed'I.
Within Each Group   Costal    Coste'    Costi      Costil    Cost0                         Financings'
Rank
National Average   1314.6    1330.5      950.4      493.4      831.9     Zone If      -        3.8
PARE Average       1118.6    1230.8       724.4     525.8      766.5     Zone II      -         5.2
7.  Oaxaca          1062.2    1092.0      601.2     425.9      655.5     Zone 1     -31.0       5.9
11. Guerew         1111.2    1406.2      220.7      586.2      869.1     Zone U     -49.7      5.6
13. Chiapas        1139.6    1214.6    1030.1       488.2      824.9     Zone n     -98.0      5.6
15. Hidalgo        1161.3    1210.5    1045.6       470.6     716.5      Zone n      10.0      3.7
PAREB Average      1113.0    1307.5       863.9     473.7      738.9     Zone I       -         3.8
1. Guanajuato       829.0      979.5     588.2      391.7      606.8     Zone 1       2.8      4.1
2. Puebla           854.4    1195.8       291.4     396.2      605.6     Zone I       0.1       4.6
4. Jalisco          961.4    1263.6       541.8     426.1      652.2     Zone I       0.9       4.6
5. San Luis Fbtosi  1023.1    1224.6     318.9      490.7      746.2     Zone II      4.0       3.2
8. Michoacan       1072.6    1075.8    1888.3       427.3      656.4     Zone I      -3.4       5.6
10. Veacruz        1099.5    1301.9      797.1      503.5     799.4      Zone U     -35.7      7.1
12. YucatAn        1114.9    1445.6      635.9      496.9     763.7      ZonelI    -30.2       2.0
19. Durango        1295.5    1574.5      697.9      655.0    1036.3      Zone I     -22.1      2.6
20. Tabasco         1312.9    1382.7    1278.3      403.0      660.2    Zone Im    -20.1        2.7
28. Campeche       1566.6    1630.8    1601.6       546.7      864.9    Zone m      -23.9       1.3
Non-Project States   1372.7    1523.1    1702.9     478.6      832.0     Zone II     -         2.4
3.  Mexico          945.0    1215.8      791.2      466.9      683.1     Zone 1      29.1       7.3
6.  Queretaro      1061.8    1133.1    1100.3       381.9      600.6     Zone 1      24.4       1.6
9.  Zacatecas      1075.6    1265.2      652.1      491.8      788.3     Zone H      -7.7      2.1
14. Tlaxcala       1131.8    1517A       390.4      531.3     821.6      Zone 1      46.3      1.2
16. Motelos        1197.8    1282.0    1160.0       420.6     641.0      Zone U      43.9      1.7
17. Sinaloa        1199.4    1499.5      900.4      517.9     799.6      Zone n      -8.7      2.8
18. Nayrit         1272.1    1549.2      493.3      574.9     856.0      Zone U      -1.3       1.7
21. Aguascalientes   1332.0    1430.1    1891.5     495.0      746.4     Zone 11     46.9       1.3
22. Nuevo Leon      1340.1    1539.8    1308.7      517.2      798.0     Zone 11     33.6       3.1
23. Coahuila        1406.6    1596.0    1444.9      620.5      925.6    Zone m       31.9       3.3
24. Chihuahua       1425.4    1489.3    1495.3      590.3      879.5     Zone U       4.8       3.7
25. Colina          1454.8    1695.9    1071.4      584.1      979.5     Zone II      5.2       0.9
26. Quintana Roo    1515.4    1572.5    2018.5      546.3      834.9    Zone m       21.6       1.3
27. Sonora          1528.4    1670.1    1561.5      543.7      834.9     Zone U1      8.5       2.6
29. 131maulipas    1681.9    1396.3    7778.6       504.5      757.2     Zone 11     27.5       3.5
30. Baja California  1748.9    1926.8    1757.6     687.5    1031.6    Zone m        44.8      2.3
31. Baja California Su019.2    2114.7    3134.2    781.4    1153.4     Zone m       31.3       1.0
Source: SEP, 1992.
Note. Distrito Federl is not mcluded.
3' Total educational expendiuns per student are in N$ (N$1 = 1000 pesos; US$1 =N$3.12) for the 1991-92 school year.
Primary educational unit costs ate for (normal) prinary school during 1990-91 school year.
Federal, state and private unit cost means per pupil cost in schools operated by federal, state governments and private
organizations. respectively.
Y Official reported unit costs.
5' Salary zone I is the lowest and zone m (touristic and border) is the highest.
W Ranking is based on a primary schol index of the average percentage deviation from te nadonal average
for the completion rate, dropout rate and reption rate for 1991 school year.
f Expenditumes ate expressd in shares of crent pesos for the 1991-92 budget year.



-72 -                                             ANNEX 6
MARGINALITY RANKING
AND PROJECT AREAS
MARGINALITY RANKING OF STATES
STATE            CONAPO        UNIFORM   COMPLETIONI  UNIFORM    INDIGENOUS | COMPOSITE
I   INDEX    I   SCALE      RATE     I   SCALE       POPULATION |   INDEX
CHIAPAS at                      0.81         100.00         31.0         100.00    885,605            31.06
OAXACA a                        0.62         93.14         43.8           72.94   1,208,821           28.70
GUERRERO a'                     0.71         96.39         40.2           80.55    360,374            26.72
YUCATAN bI                      0.23         79.06         44.4           71.67    628,945            24.17
VERACRUZ tI                    -0.11         66.79          45.0          70.40    704,891            22.94
PUEBLA hI                       0.39          84.84         58.0          42.92    611,388            21.18
CAMPECHE hI                    40.33          58.84         44.6          71.25    105,994            18.73
SAN LUIS POTOSIW b              0.14         75.81          57.4          44.19    248,993            18.34
MICHOACAN b                     -0.39         56.68         50.3          59.20     126,756           17.00
HIDMALGO                        0.02          71.48         64.0          30.23    383,665            16.43
DURANGOb                        -0J.30        59.93         56.2          46.72     21,901            15.58
JALISCO bt                     -0.31          59.57         57.9          43.13     30,010            15.02
TABASCO bI                     -0.60         49.10          53.2          53.07     59,993            14.74
GUANAJUAIO D                    -0.30         59.93         59.4          39.96     10,839            14.49
ZACATECAS                       -0.40         56.32         57.3          44.40      1,081            14.37
SINALOA                        -0.61         48.74          56.7          45.67     37,290            13.59
QUEREU-TARO                     0.02         71.48          68.6          20.51     24,884            13.56
CHIHUAHUA                       .0.55        50.90         59.0           40.80     74,716            13.44
NAYARTr                        40.74         44.04          58.2          42.49     29,386            12.39
TAMAULIPAS                      -0.25         61.73         68.7          20.30     10,489            12.11
MtUCO                           -0.68        46.21          69.6          18.39    397,336            11.37
QUINTANA ROO                    -0.84        40.43          62.9          32.56    164,919            10.86
COLIMA                          -1.09         31.41         58.1          42.71       1,826           10.41
TLAXCALA                       -0.45         54.51          74.3           8.46     28,437             9.46
SONORA                          -1.21        27.08          64.0          30.23     57,547             8.42
AGUASCALIENTES                 -0.83         40.79          74.3           8.46        771             7.26
COAHUILA                        -1.05         32.85         72.3          12.68      4,513             6.71
MORELOS                         -0.76        43.32          78.3           0.00     24,900             6.65
NUEVO LE6N                      -1.15        29.24          75.4           6.13      5,783             5.35
BAJA CALiPORNIA SUR             -1.45         18.41         69.3          19.03      3,372             5.30
BAJA CALIFORNIA                -1.96          0.00          76.5           3.81     22,427             0.63
a/   States under PARE
bi   States under proposed Second Prmary Education Project



PROJECT SCHOOL MUNICIPALITIES
List A - Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan
Campeche                    Durango                    Guanajuato                     Jalisco                   Michoacan
Calikni                     Mezquital .                 Ocampo                        Ipa de Allende            Puruandiro
Campeche                    Pueblo Nuevo                San Felipe                  San Sebastian Del 0.        Penjanuillo
Carmn                       General Simon Bolivar       San Diego de la U.          Tomatlan                    Angamacutiro
Champoton                   Tamazula                    San Luis de la Paz          Cabo Corrientes             Morelos
Escarcega                   San Ditms                   Xichu                       lbxcacuesco                 Tangamandapio
Hecelchakan                 Canelas                     Tierra Blanca               Cuautla                     Villamar
Hopelchen                   Tepebuanes                  Doctor Morm                 Cuautitlan                  Ixtlan
Palizada                    San Bernardo                Atarjea                     Purificacion                Pajacuaran
lTnabo                      Guanacevi                   Victoria                    La Huerta                   ibrigancicuaro
Ocanpo                      Santa Catarina              Juchitlan                   Panindicuo
Canalan                     Jerecuaro                   Ejutla                      Tlazazalca
Santiago Papasquiaro.       Coroneo                     Ayutla                      fluaniqueo
Tbpia                                                   Casimiro Castillo           Chinicuila
Dugo                                                    Atengo                     flmbiscazio
Otaez                                                   Tonaya                      Coalcoman
San Juan de Guadalupe                                   lapalpa                     Aquila
Coneto de Comonlort                                     Tbliman                     Arteaga
Cuencame                                                Alemajac de Brizuela        Coagua ya
Guadalupe Victoria                                      Chiquilisan                 L. Cardenas
Hida1go                                                 Venustiano Carranza         Querendaro
Inde                                                    Tlcuitatlan de C.           Cuitzeo
Mapimi                                                  Gomez Farias                Tbrimbaro
Nuevo Ideal                                             Zapotitlan de V.            Sta A Maya
Nombre de Dios                                          Tonila                      Zinapecuaro
San Juan del Rio                                        Zapotiltic                  Huandacareo
El Oro                                                  Zacoalco de Tones           Tancitaro
Panuco de Coronado                                      lbxpan                      Chamapan
Rodeo                                                   Manuel D. Jilotlan de los D.   Taretan
San Luis del Cordero                                    Quitupan                    Nuevo Parangaricutiro
San Pedro del Gallo                                     Pihuuno                     Periban
Suchil                                                  Tamazula de G.              Ziracuaretiro
Manzanilla de la Paz       Trgambato
Tbcalitian                  Cheran
Mazamitla                   Nahuatzen                     e 
Valle de Juarez             Los Reyes
lizapan el Alto             Paracho
Guachinango                 Chilchota                     i
Hostotipaquillo             Susupuato
Mixtlan                    Tlzantla
II,3



Campeche                    Durango                   Guanajuato                   Jalisco                   Michoacan
Tequila                    Irimbo
San Cristobal de la B.     Ocampo
Cuquio                     Epitacio
Zapotlanejo                Jungapeo
Ixtlahuacan del Rio        Aporo
Amatitan                   Hidalgo
Jocotepec                  Contepec
Degollado                  Senguio
Tototlan                   Juarez
Atotonilco el Alto         Zitacuaro
Poncitlan                  Lagunillas
Ayotlan                    Tzintzuntzan
Zapotlan del Rey           Acuitzio
La Barca                   S. Escalante
Canadas de Obregon         Tiquicheo
Jesus Maria                Turicato
Arandas                    Tzitzio
Acatic                     Caracuaro
Mexticacan                 Madero
Valle de Guadalupe         Nocupetaro
San Miguel el Alto         Huetamo
San Diego de Atejandria    Tacamnbargo
Jalostotitlan              San Lucas
ibpatitlan                 Ario
Yahualica de G.            Aguililla
San Julian                 La Huacana
Union de San Antonio       Buena Vista
Teocaltiche                Churumuco
San Juan de los Lagos      Nuevo Urecho
Encarnacion de Diaz        Paracuaro
Ojuelos                    Gabriel Zamora
Villa Hidalgo              Tepalcatepec
Lagos de Moreno            Apatzingan
Chimaltitan                Mujica
Mezquitic                  Maravatio
Bolanos                    Tocumbo
San Martin de B.           Patzcuaro                    Z f
Huejuquilla el Alto       lTxpan                        t z
Santa Maria de los A.      Zacapu                          >
Villa Guerrero
Huejucar
Coloilan
Totatiche
.__________  -__   Manuel M. Dieguez        ,_______
B'C



PROJECr SCHOOL MUNICIPALITIES
List B - Puebla, San Luis Potosi, Ibbasco, Veracruz, Yucatan
Puebla                   San [MS Pbtos.  Ilbasco                                        Veracruz                      Yucatan
Thzco                        Villa de Ramos                Jonuta                       Chiconamel                    Tlixcacalcupul
Jolalpan                     Villa de Arista               Balancan                     Tantima                       Chemax
Ctila Honey                  Santo Domingo                 Ibnosique                    Tempoal                       Tahdziu
Tlacuilotpec                 Venado                        Emiliano Zapata               Planton Sanchez              Chankom
Pahuatian                    Salinas                       Huimanguillo                 lbntoyuca                     Uayman
TlpAca                       Villa Hidalgo                 Cardenas                      Chalma                       Yaxkaba
Tlaola                       Villa de Guadalupe            Cunduacan                     Chontla                      ThnoZon
Chiconcuautla                Guadalcazar                   Comalcalco                   Tepetzintla                   Espita
bpala                        Calorce                       Macuspana                     Cidalhepet                   Cenotillo
Z*uateuda                    Chalcas                       acotialpa                     lxcaepec                     Chichimila
Amixtan                      Moctezuma                     Teapa                        Tancoco                       Dzitas
Coaropec                     Vaegas                        Jalapa                       Texcatepec                    Kaua
Ahuacatlan                   Cedral                                                      l1amatlan                    Panaba
Caniocuautla                 Villa de la Paz                                            Zontecomatlan                 Thimin
lpaio de Rodriguez           Matehuala                                                   Zacualpan                    Thum
Hemoiegido ;aleana           Aquismon                                                   Tlachwhilco                   Peto
Xbcbiapulco                  ibTlajas                                                    Huat: ootla                  Chacsinkdn
Cuautemapan                  luncanhuitz de Sanos                                       Ixbui.'an de M.               Sucila                                '
ibaila de Ocamnpo            San Anlonio                                                 Benito Juarez                Valladolid
Ixtacaraxtitan             iTuquian de Escobedo                                        Chiconsepec                   Tecom
Hucydalpan                   Xilida                                                      Filomeno Mats                Cuncuuil
ItPec                        Ebano                                                       Mecatlan                     Chikinudnnot
Huitzilan de Serdan          Tamasopo                                                    Coahuitlan                   Mayapan
Olintda                      Huehuetlan                                                  Zozocolco                    Tekit
Huehuetla                    Tuunchale                                                  Coyuda                        Sudzal
Caxhuacan                    Tampamobon                                                  Coxquihui                    Canmayniyec
Xochitlan V.S.               San Martin Chalchicuautla                                   Espinal                      Timucuy
Zongozonda                   San Vicente Tancuayalab                                     Chumatlan                    Sotuta
Zapodthan de Mende           Coxcatlan                                                   Las Minas                    Tbabo
Chichiquila                  Axtla de Terrazas                                           Tlacolulan                   Akil
Quimixdan                    Tamuin                                                      Tatatila                     Tecoh
Chilchoda                    Tanpacan                                                    Tonayan                      XDcchel
La Fragua                    CD. Wiles                                                   Atzalan                      Abala
Coyomeapan                   Alaquines                                                   Altonga                      Kantunil
Eloxochitlan                 Lagunillas                                                 Jalacingo                     Hoctun
San Sebastian T]acot.        Santa Catarina                                              Coacoatzintla                Mani
Zoquitlan                    San Ciro de Acosta                                         Tepetlan                      Tzucacab
Ste. Catarina Tlalt.         Rayon                                                       Chinconquiaco                Tekax
Ahuadan                      Villa Juarez                                                Juchique de Feraer           Homun
Coatzingo                    Rioverde                                                    Ixhuacande los R.            Kanasin
Xochiltepec                  Ciudad del Maiz                                             Ayahualulco                  Izamal                          Ih;
Cutyuca                      Ciudad Fernandez                                            Cosautlan                    Huhi



Psiebl                   Son Ladis Noeld                   Tabasco                      ewcruz                        Yucatan
San Martin Totolwpec         San Nicolas Tolendno                                        Xico                         Oxkutzcab
lTpi de RodriguP              Cardenas                                                   Ixhuadancillo                Tuxmeuac
Zacaula                      Cerrilts                                                    Aquila                       Seye
Axutla                                                                                   La Perla                     Chumayel
San Miguel btidan                                                                        Calcahualco                 Tlhmek
Tecomatlan                                                                               Alpadahuac                   Tekal de Venegas
Pedalcizgo                                                                               Coscomatepec                 Muna
San Pablo Anicano                                                                        Mariano Escobedo             Santa Elena
Chinanda                                                                                 Chocaman                     Tbmax
Guadupe                                                                                  Maltrata                     lbnkas
San hse Chiapa                                                                           Atzacan                      Teya
San Nicohs Buenos Aites                                                                  Huatusco                     lxil
Guadalupe Victoria                                                                       Mixda de A.                  Mama
Sau Juan Atenco                                                                          Atlahuilco                   Sanahcat
Tepqahualco                                                                              Tlaquilpa                    Ciza,a
San Antonio C.                                                                           Soledad Atz.                 Hocaba
Niclas Bravo                                                                             Tehuipango                   Tepakan
Vic:ee Guerrero                                                                          Astancinga                   Cansahcab
San Gabriel Chilac                                                                       Tequila                      Mococha
Alepexi                                                                                  Los Reyes                    Chapab
Aialpan                                                                                 San Andres T.                 Cacalchen
Zinacatepec                                                                              Zongolica                    Tekanto
Chapulco                                                                                 Texhbacan                    Dzan                                  CK
Zapotitlan                                                                               Magdalena                    Baca
San Jose Mhahuatan                                                                       Xoxocotla                    Acanceb
Tiacotepec de B. JZ.                                                                     Tezonapa                     Motul
Atzitzintla                                                                              Soteapan                     Conkal
Palmar de Brmo                                                                           Mecayapan                    Sacalum
Quecholac                                                                                Pajapan                      Tetiz
Canada Morelos                                                                           Zaragoza                     Celestun
Yehualtepec                                                                              Hucyapan de 0.               Ucu
Tepexco                                                                                  S. Andres Tuxtla             Kinchil
San Diego de la Mesa T.                                                                  Santiago luxtila             Hunucma
Tepemaxalco                                                                              Catemaco                     Maxcanu
Acteopan                                                                                 Soconusco                    Chochola
Tlapanala                                                                                Chinaineca                   Halacho
Huehuetlan el Grande                                                                     Oteapan                      Opichen
Tepeojuma                                                                                                             Samahil
Athmluacan __.-v.._t 
Q;0



-77 -                                  ANNEX 7
INDIGENOUS POPULATIONS
INDIGENOUS POPULATIONS AND EDUCATION
1.    A recent World Bank studyl' on indigenous people in Latin America shows that
indigenous people represent a large proportion of the population of a few Latin American
countries. The major indigenous population centers are in Guatemala, Mexico, Bolivia,
Ecuador and Perd. There are approximately 400 different indigenous languages throughout
Latin America and individual countries have from 7 to 200 languages. While many
indigenous people are bilingual, others are monolingual in their native language.
2.    The general situation of the indigenous people in the Latin American region is as
follows:
(a) Poverty among Latin America's indigenous population is pervasive and severe.
Living conditions are deficient even when compared with those of other sectors of the
poorest population;
(b) Indigenous people have less education than non-indigenous people and there are
strong correlations between schooling attainment and indigenous origins and between
schooling attainment and poverty category. Indigenous children are more likely to
repeat grades at the primary level and more likely to drop out of school altogether.
Children of indigenous origins are born with many socio-economic disadvantages and
are unable to keep up with their non-indigenous peers; and
(c) Indigenous worker earnings, on average, are less than two-thirds the salary of their
non-indigenous counterparts. Indigenous individuals are more likely to have a second
job and they generally tend to work more hours than their non-indigenous
counterparts. Much of the earnings disadvantage of indigenous workers can be
attributed to lower human capital endowments.
3.    Access to education in indigenous areas will help amelic.rate poverty and increase
earnings. One of several frequently noted methods of improving access to education among
indigenous population is the implementation of bilingual education. Country analysis reveals
that parents' skills and educational attainment are reflected in the schooling and other human
capital characteristics of their children. Laws that will protect and promote indigenous
language, culture, customs, resources, and social organization and that will also implement
mechanisms to guarantee equal access to justice for indigenous people are needed. In
recognition of the importance of addressing the concerns on the country's indigenous
populations, the Mexican Government signed Agreement Number 169 with the International
Labor Office (ratified on September 4, 1990) accepting a series of obligations to support
indigenous people in every aspect of their lives. This agreement forms the basis for
supporting indigenous education programs in Mexico.
4.    Mexico's indigenous population accounts for about 14.2% of its population; other
countries with a larger share are Bolivia (56.8%), Guatemala (43.8%), Peru (40.8%) and
Belize (14.7%). The rest of the countries in Latin America register less than 10% of their
!' G. Pscacharopoulos and H. Patrinos, Indifenous Peonle in Latin America: An Emirincal Analvsis, Regional
Studies Progmm, Report No. 50, Tbe World Bank, August 1993.



-78 -                                    ANNEX 7
INDIGENOUS POPULATIONS
populations as indigenous, with most having about one percent. There are approximately 72
indigenous languages in Mexico;21 this ranks behind Brazil (208), Peru (85), and Colombia
(78), while other countries in Latin America register about ten indigenous languages on
average.
Table 1. Mexico - Languages and Indigenous Primary Education by State
State                             Number                Number           Pbpulation
(Languages)                    Of Centers            of Teachers         Attended
National Total                        7,361                24,555            564,698
Baja California                          34                   107              2,575
(Cochimi, Kmial, Mixteco, Pai-Pat)
Canmpeche                                45                   160              1,283
(Maya)
Chiapas                                1,734                5,033            125,463
(Chol,- Kakchiquel, Mame=
Tojolabal, Tzeltal,
Tzotzil, Zque, Maya)
Chihuahua                               246                   517             10,498
(Guarijio, Pima, Tarahumara,
Tepehuano)
Durango                                 120                   249              4,033
(Hwuchol, Nahuatl, Tepehuano)
Guerrero                                686                 3,012             61,767
(Amuzgo, Mixteco, Nahuatl,
T7apaneco)
Hidalgo                                 580                 1,970             44,490
(Nahuatl, Otomi, Tepehua)
Jalisco                                  62                   136              2,309
(Huichol)
Mexico                                  121                   444             11.093
(Mazahua, Otomi)
Michoacan                               140                   815             17,099
(Mazahua, Nahuawl, Otomi,
Purepecha)
Morelos                                   2                    19               446
(Nahuatl)
Nayarit                                  98                   212         -   4,706
(Cora, Huichol, Nahuatl,
Tepehuano)
(continued)
' DGEI.



79-                                      ANNEX 7
INDIGENOUS POPULATIONS
State                              Number               Number             Pbpulation
(Languages)                     Of Centers            of Teachers          Attended
Oaxaca                                 1,326                 4,969             129,273
(Amuzgo, Cuicateco, Chatino,
Chinanteco, Chacho, Chontal,
Huave, Mazateco, Mixe
Mixeco, Nahuatl, Thqui
Tzotzil, Zapoteco, Zoque)
Puebla                                   580                  1.836            45,483
(Mazateco, Mixteco, Nauwatl,
Otonu, Popoloca, Totonaco)
Queretaro                                 76                   226               5,118
(Otomi)
Quintana Roo                              82                   202               3,323
(Maya)
San Luis Pbtosf                          244                   944              16,303
(Huasteco, Nahuatl, Pame)
Sinaloa                                   30                   105              2,088
(Mayo)
Sonora                                    89                   295              3,900
(Huarijio, Mayo, Papago,
Pima, Seri, Yaqw)
Tabasco                                   91                   300              6,623
(Chol, Chontal)
Tlaxcala                                   7                    49                982
(Nahuatl, Otoui)
Veracruz                                 803                 2,510             55,400
(Oiinanteco, Huasteco, Mazateco,
Mixe, Nahuatl, Oton.
Popoluca, Tepehua, Totonaco,
Zapoteco, Zoque)
Yucatan                                  165                   445              10,143
(Maya)
Totals                              7,361                 24,555            564,698
Source: SEP, 1993.



PARTCIPATING MUNICIPALlTIES & NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES
BY PROJECr STATE
|Schools in   Total    Primary    Total   Primary    Total    Super-    Total    Sector
State      No. of   Selected   No. of   Project   Primary    School   Primary   School   Super-  visors in   Sector  Chiefs in
Municip. Municip.  Schools             School   Students in  School  Teachers   visors   Project   Chiefs   Project
L_______ _        I ________ I          Enroll.    Project   Teachers in Project _      _
Campeche              9        9      712       399    102,015    42,970    3,453      1,473       47        39        7        7
Durango              39       31    2,335       855   241,406    46,633    9,991       1,969      186        65       17        9
Guanajuato           46       12    4,393       890   766,797    72,469   23,902    2,597         264        33       22         5
Jalisco             124       83    5,337    2,141    979,070    154,801    30,360    5,599       210       163       25        33
Michoacan           113       78    4,501    2,360    689,681    341,971   23,492    11,686       223       155       31       29
Puebla              217       82    3,858    1,107   788,872    155,249   23,694    4,712         247       113       16       20
San Luis Potosi      56       45    3,074    1,750   362,331    125,822   13,508    6,130         213       114       16        18
Tabasco              17       12    1,949      1,205    297,246    178,957    9,024    5,338      104        73       12         9
Veracruz            207       79    8,870    2,483  1,101,767   260,006   40,101    9,454         344       150       34        14            0
Yucatan             106       80    1,257       668   243,647    122,766    7,921      3,901       95        80       13        13
Total               934      511   36,286   13,858   5S7,282   1,501,644  185,436   52,859       1,933      985      193       157
National          2,402    2,402   85,081    85,081  14,396,900 14,396,900  487,915  487,915    16,478   16,478     N.A.    NMA.
Total as a
Percentage of      39%      21%       43%      16%         38%       10%      38%       11%      12%        6%      N.A.    N.A.        m
National                  .                                                                                                             Z _ _
Source: SEP, 1993.
N.A. - Not available.                                                                                                                   04
0 C
oz
'4-



-81-                                   ANNEX 9
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF
EXTENSION OF BASIC EDUCATION
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF EXTENSION OF BASIC EDUCATION
1.    Some very preliminary estimates of the financial implications of implementing the
policy to extend mandatory basic education from 6 to 9 years, through the inclusion of the
three-year lower secondary cycle, have been made by SEP but were not available for the
preparation of the project. An initial but very rough estimate of the impact can be made
using the latest unit costs for lower secondary school education and the unattended student
cohort. Currently, only 67% of the lower secondary school cohort or 4.1 million students
are enrolled, leaving an unattended population of some 2.1 million students. Presently, 86%
of those students completing the primary education cycle continue to lower secondary (this is
high by international standards). Initially, implementation will focus on raising this index to
closer to 100%, whilst programs such as PARE and PAREB will result in a larger
percentage of students completing their primary cycle.
2.    The cost implications of extending basic education are complicated by a number of
factors: (a) there are four main types of secondary education (normal, vocational, distance
and special) with varying unit costs; (b) a significant, but highly variable, proportion of
places in secondary school classrooms are vacant, thus a number of children could be
absorbed at little increase in operating costs as the basic infrastructure already exists; and (c)
the location of unattended children in relation to physical infrastructure is not fully known at
present, thus making it difficult to estimate construction requirements. There is thus the
need for a detailed assessment of the cost implications of this policy, which will be supported
under the project as part of the secondary education study (Annex 14, Part B.5).
3.   In the meantime, upper and lower cost estimates can be calculated as follows:
(a)  Lower Boundary - Raising Coverage to 100% of Sixth Grade Completers. The lower
cost boundary would be that in 1994/95 all sixth grade completers would be
accommodated in lower secondary. Assuming that 50% of these incremental 660,000
students would be accommodated in existing classrooms and 50% would require new
classrooms and that due to cost savings assumed in the filling of vacant space in
existing classrooms (para. 2 above), incremental unit costs would be 50% of average
unit costs, the incremental cost for 1994/95 would be US$121 million in recurrent
costs and US$204 million in investment costs (for classroom construction).
Combined, these costs would amount to an increment of 5% of the 1993 basic
education budget or 2.5 % of the total education budget.
(b) Upper Boundary - Raising Coverage to 100% of the Cohort in the First Year. In
1993 prices, this unattended population would entail incremental recurrent costs of
about US$747 million per anm. This would amount to an increase of 5.5% in the
total education budget for 1993 of US$13.6 billion or 11.2% for the basic education
budget of US$6.7 billion. In addition, there would be the need for the construction
and furnishing of at least an additional 42,000 classrooms at total cost of US$1.3
billion and for the training of an additional 105,000 teachers costing a further US$880
million over the four-year training cycle of implementation in one year. These costs
would add up to US$2.9 billion or 21.2% of the total 1993 budget.



-82 -                                   ANNEX 9
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF
EXTENSION OF BASIC EDUCATION
4.    Likely Scenario - Implementaton oe l  Years. In reality, it will take several
years to implement this policy as modalities to cover rual populations still have to be
developed, additional teachers tained, and new classrooms created - most likely over a
period- of about ten years. On this basis, and assuming a constt rate of attending the unmet
demand over a ten-year period and with anmial growth in cohort size of 1.0% per annum,
the incremental costs for the five-year period 1994/95 to 1998/99 (i.e., the PAREB period)
in constant 1993 US$ would be as follows:
Incremental Costs and Physical Targets of Expanding Basic Education -
Uniform Rate of Implementation over 10 Yeaws Starting in 1994/95
(US$ million, 1993 prices)
ITEM             1994/95     1995/96    196/97    1997/98    1998/99 
A. Costs
Incremental Recrrent Costs    76.2      152.4      228.6       304.8      381.0
Investment Costs             128.5      131.1       133.7      136.4      139.1
Teacher Training              89.8       89.8       89.8        89.8       89.8
Total Costs              294.5       374.3      452.1       531.0      609.9
B. Phyical Achevement Indicators
Percentage Enrollment in
Lower Secondary             70%        73%         76%        79%        82%
Number of New Classrooms
Completed (cumulative)     4,200      8,400      12,600     16,800     21,000
Additional Teachers Trained
(cumulative)              10,500     21,000      31,500     42,000     52,500
5.    Thus the incremental cost for 1994/95 would represent about 2.2% in the total
education budget of 1993, rising to 4.5% by 1998/99. Whilst not excessive given an
anticipated growth rate in real per capita GDP of about 2% per annum over this period, such
increases require that the Government allocate an increased share of GDP to education - an
objective the Government is fully committed to. However, the opportmity cost of increasing
enrollment in lower secondary education while there are so many deficiencies in primary
education should be taken into account. While Mexico currently has an unfilled capacity
within the secondary education system, resulting in small marginal costs for expansion, it
remains to be seen whether adequate institutional capacity exists or can be developed to
properly manage this anticipated growth. Under the project, studies wili be conducted to
examine various elements of the secondary education system (Annex 14, Part B) and
recommend reform and/or investment programs.



-83 -                                 ANNEX 10
TEACHER TRAINING
TEACHER TRAINIG PROGRAM STRATEGY
1.    Summary. The objective of the human resources development component is to
contribute to more effective teaching through: (a) enhancing the skills of teachers in the
most critical areas of pedagogical problems typical of their school environment; and (b)
developing educational supervision more focused on teachers' need for technical assistance in
the classroom. A comprehensive in-service taining program will be implemented to
improve the educational skills of teachers, school principals and supervisors. A pedagogical
network concept will be applied in the design of the taining courses and follow-up activities.
School principals and supervisors would be trained to provide guidance and technical support
to teachers in the day-to-day application of good educational principles and techniques to
their classroom practice. Training would take place through one-week intensive courses
during the summer recess, followed by seven one-day Saturday training seminars, once a
month throughout the school year. Approximately 61,420 teachers are expected to
participate in the training program. Of these, 47,500 would be general primary school
teachers, 5,360 indigenous primary school teachers, and 8,560 school principals and
supervisors. The component will also provide the rural teachers with opportunities to meet
some of the training requirements for advancement in their teaching careers.
Description of the lfanng Program
2.    The Pedagogical Network. The teacher and his work in the classroom is the main
focus of the in-service training program. Teachers in mral schools often work alone in one-
room situations where professional exchange with peers is not available and the only
technical support must come from sporadic supervisor visits. Multigrade classes are almost
the rule in rural schools. Teaching literacy and numeracy becomes more difficult with
children from homes with little or no educational background. Disadvantaged socioeconomic
conditions often add to the learning difficulties of children in rural communities. Teachers
must learn how to deal with these situations on the job.
3.    Teachers, principals, supervisors, and assistant supervisors are considered members of
a pedagogical network, and will be charged with making the improvement of teaching their
continuing concem throughout the school year. Educational supervision would thus be given
an added educational dimension beyond its present emphasis on administrative controls, to
reinforce teacher training and encourage better teaching in the classroom. The training
program has been designed to support and strengthen the concept that good teaching
performance is dependent upon an effective operation of this pedagogical network of
teachers, principals, and supervisors. The training courses and seminars are built around all
participants working together to develop the necessary skills and following up on practical
experience in the classroom.
4.    The Training Program. In-service training for primary teachers and school
management staff (school principals and supervisors) in the project schools is proposed as an
activity directly focused on improving classroom practice in some critical areas where teacher
shortcomings have long been recognized as determinant factors in poor student achievement,
wasteful grade repetition and early abandonment of school.



- 84 -                                 ANNEX 10
TEACHER TRAINING
5.    Specific areas of teaching skills which are of special relevance to the socioeconomic
and educational characteristics of the population in the target areas are: (a) teaching classes
including children of several grade levels (multigrade classes); (b) teaching and reinforcing
literacy and numeracy to children of very low cultural and educational backgrounds; (c)
teaching literacy and numeracy to children whose families speak a language different from
the official; (d) utilizing a variety of educational resources to achieve results in the
classroom; and (e) recognizing problems of slow learners and using appropriate techniques to
help them. Special pedagocial attention would be given to literacy-oriented needs of first-
and second-graders.
6.    The content of training courses will be designed to fill in areas of expertise not
covered by the teacher education curriculum in colleges and Normal Schools, and which are
critical to teacher performance under the special circumstances prevalent in the project
schools. Training courses will be coordinated with other existing teacher training programs
such as the PAM, which is designed to introduce new curricular contents. Duplication of
training contents with existing PAM courses will be avoided. At the same time, training
courses in the project are also expected to receive recognition toward career advancement
urder the TCP. Promotion points will be granted for participation in the training courses
and workshops, and this is expected to ensure teacher attendance.
7.    The training program includes a five-day (40 hour) sumnmer course followed by seven
one-day (6 hour) workshops, approximately once a mnonth on Saturdays. Four courses (one
each year) will be required for all teachers, school prhicipals, supervisors and assistant
supervisors in the project area. They are:
(a) Multigrade Class Teaching
(b) Educational Resources
(c) Educational Problem Prevention
(d) Remedial Education
All participants will also take one or more of the following, depending on their
concentration:
(a) Written Language
(b) Mathematics
(c) State-specific course
Emphasis will be on the pedagogical requirements of the first and second grade of the
primary school curriculum.
8.    Teachers of indigenous primary schools will have courses in:
(a) Bilingualism in Indigenous Education
(b) Spanish as a Second Language
(c) Use of Indigenous Language Texts and Materials
9.    Printed training materials will be specifically developed for each course. They will
include an anthology of appropriate readings, study guides, suggested activities, bibliography
and glossary of terms, training manuals, and evaluation instruments. Posters and



- 85 -                                ANNEX 10
TEACHER TRAENING
promotional materials will also be developed and distributed to encourage teacher
participation in the training program. Most training materials needed for the project have
already been developed and used in the teacher training courses of the PARE project in the
states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, and Oaxaca. These materials will be revised and
updated for use in this project.
10.   Selection of Trainers. Trainers will be selected through a special 40-hour course in
Pedagogical Counseling attended by school principals, supervisors, and assistant supervisors.
Supervisors will be required to attend an additional six-day course on the Pedagogical Role
of the Supervisor. Some trainers will also be selected from among experienced teachers who
have earned the respect of their peers. All selected trainers will attend preliminary intensive
courses in the topics they are expected to cover.
11.   Location of Training. Training will be conducted in training centers especially
equipped for the purpose with libraries and audio-visual resources. Two centers, each
housing between five and ten training groups, will be selected in each region. The center
will be either an existing branch of the National Pedagogical University or a Normal School,
or else a secondary or technical vocational school. No additional physical infrastructure will
be required for the training centers, but an audio-visual room will be set aside and provided
with equipment and materials to be used by teachers in the area as additional learning
resources during the school year, as well as for the Saturday follow-up workshops.
12.   Saturdav workshops will be held once each month during the school year for a total
of seven. The workshops will be six-hour sessions and will be attended by the same group
participating in the intensive summer course, together with their school principals,
supervisors, and assistant supervisors. The topic of the workshop will be the same as the
summer course, and it will focus on a review of the concepts and teaching techniques learned
and thw teachers' experience with actual classroom practice using those concepts and
techniques. Problems encountered and solutions devised by teachers will be discussed, plans
to correct difficulties during the following month will be proposed and analyzed, and needs
for technical assistance from supervisors or supplementary reference materials will be
reviewed.
13. The Saturday workshops are intended to reinforce and expand on the subject matter of
the intensive courses, and relate it to the teacher's experience rather than to teach additional
topics. Training in the various topics will be interrelated through the common link of
classroom experience, and will involve teachers and supervisory staff sharing the same
interest and activity. Each new Summer course will start with a review of the training
activities of the previous year and will build upon them to csevelop the new topic.
14.   Organization of the Trainig Program. A Central Technical Group attached to
each of the normative units of general primary education and indigenous primary education
of SEP will be responsible for planning all training activities, designing the courses and
developing the required training materials. These central Technical Groups will also be
responsible for training similar technical groups at the state level, and for follow-up and
evaluation of all project-related tmning activities conducted by the states. State Technical
Groups will similarly be organized in each participating state for general primary and



-86-                                  ANNEX 10
TEACHER TRAINING
indigenous primary education, respectively, and will be responsible for organizing the
training courses for state trainers and for teachers and supervisors as well as for evaluation
of trainer performance.
15.   Both the Central and State Itchnical Groups will be made up of permanent technical
staff members of SEP and the state educational entity respectively. Each group will have a
Coordinator and the members will serve on a full-time basis. The members of the STG,
together with the state trainers, will form a pedagogical network to follow up on the monthly
Saturday workshops and to encourage fuirter collegial self training activities by the teachers
and continued use of the libraries and other training resources.



-87 -                                 ANNEX 11
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
1.   In order to meet both the current and expanding education needs, SEEs in each state
conducted an analysis of their classroom and storage/distribution capacities. The school
portion of this subcomponent was based on the need to improve deteriorated facilities and
expand existing or construct new facilities to meet rising enrollments. The distribution
portion or this subcomponent was based on the need to improve both the storage capacity and
the logistics of providing educational textbooks and materials to the schools in a timely
manner.
A. School and Classroom Construction
2.    Construction of schools and classrooms will be undertaken under one of two
modalities: (a) through CAPFCE (for schools in less remote, easier access locations); and
(b) through a community-based method drawing from experience under the SOLIDARIDAD
model. It is estimated that the project will apply both modalities more or less in equal
proportion. An Operational Manual has been drafted to cover both modalities. Technical
staff at the SPCUs will coordinate the construction and supervision procedures for CAPFCE
and community subprojects.
3.    CAPFCE Model. CONAFE, in coordination with CAPFCE, will select the sites
falling under the CAPFCE model. Funds will flow directly to CAPFCE, which will be
responsible for planning and supervising construction subprojects, which will be carried out
by its state-level branch offices.
4.    Community Model. SPCUs will discuss and agree upon subproject proposals with
School Councils and municipal authorities. The community would contribute (in-kind and/or
money) an average of 10 percent (possibly less for the poorest communities) of the work
value. The construction will be implemented by School Councils according to the procedures
set forth under the Operational Manual and supervised by the municipality. Actual
construction will be carried out by a combination of community members and local
contractors, guided by a self-help handbook to be designed and produced under the project.
The municipality will provide technical assistance through its permanent employees or ad hoc
specialists. The Operational Manual will include the administrative steps for disbursing
funds to the municipalities (ayuntamientos) as work progresses. This arrangement entrusts
the municipality to play the role of financial and administrative intermediary and makes the
School Councils responsible for construction. If a municipality is unable to fulfill this task,
state SOPEs would be an acceptable alternative. Table 1 below outlines the various entities
involved in the community construction model.
5.    Out of three provided CAPFCE prototypes, School Councils (in coordination with
SPCU and the municipality) will select the one best suited to the local availability of land,
materials, and resources. T-he prototypical project classroom (both for CAPFCE and
community schools) will b. 6x6 meters, large enough to accommodate up to 36 students, or
30 students and extra space to provide for a Reading Corner, multigrade instruction, or more



- 88 -                                      ANNEX 11
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUC1'URE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
participatory teaching/learning interaction. This size is considered to be optimal, allowing
for greater flexibility than the 6x5.3 used in PARE. In order to avoid or reduce technical
errors in design and inconsistent budget estimates (main causes for poor construction quality,
delays, and cost overruns under PARE), the Bank will approve prototype designs with
blueprints and review budget esimates based on sndard regionalized unit prices on a yearly
basis. Construction will also include, as necessary, adequate sanitary conditions, including
the construction of toilets and latrines and the provision of potable water through sinks,
central mater system connections, deep wells, and other appropriate means.
Table 1: Procedures for Construction of Schools/Classrooms
Community Construction Model
ILTask                                            R Rponsible           Cordiateawd ith 
1. Elaboration of Subproject Proposal    SEE                         Municipality
2. Approval of Subproject Proposal       SPCU                        SEE
3. Elaboration of Preliminary Budget     SPCU                        SOPE
4. Validation of the Proposal            COPLADE                     SEE
5. Necessary Modifications               SPCU                        SEE
6. Selection of Prototype, and Contract Modality  SEE/SPCU           Municipality & School
Council
7. Technical and Budgetaiy Revisions     SOPE                        Municipality & School
Council
8. Final Approval of Subproject Proposal  SEE                        NAFIN, DGPPP (for ex-
CONAFE/BM (ex-post review)  post review)
9. Elaboration of Technical Requements   SOPE                        School Council & SPCU
10. Community Organization and Mobilization   Municipality           SEEtSPCU
11. Project Implementation Agreement     Municipality                SPCU
12. Execution of Civil Works             Community/School Council    SPCU
13. Supervision and Technical Assistance  Municipality               SOPE
14. Final Subproject Acceptance          School Council             SPCU
CONAFE (ex-post
:  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   review )
6.    Furniture. Furniture for those schools built by CAPFCE will be put out to bid by
CAPFCE, while furniture for those constructed by the community or SOPE will be put out to
bid by CONAFE.
7.    Superviion and  lchnical Assistance. To upgrade the quality of construction, five
percent of the building cost would be allocated for supervision and technical assistance
undertaken through CAPFCE or independent consultants. In addition, two percent of the
building value will be given to either CAPFCE, the municipality, or SOPE for managing the
project. For community-built schools, technical assistance will be given by the municipality,
or if local expertise is lacking, by SOPE.



-89-                                  ANNEX 11
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCrURE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
B School Maintenance
8.    The lack of maintenance of school buildings and furnishings is now requiring major
investnents in replacement. The traditional and centralized maintenance system has been
both expensive and insufficient. Effective school maintenance requires community
participation through hands-on school-related responsibilities. All (whether existing or new)
schools in the project areas will be included in the maintenance subcomponent (see Table 2).
For both CAPFCE- and community-built schools, maintenance funds will be transferred to
the municipalities as School Councils will set repair or maintenance priorities. Given the
lack of previous experience w-th systematic maintenance, guidance to School Councils for
maintenance activities will be phased in to allow for adequate training, assisted by a
handbook for maintenance to be designed and produced under the project. Bank financing
for maintenance will be given on a declining basis so that by the last year of the project, all
maintenance would be carried out with local resources.
9.    Costs. School maintenance costs are estimated to total N$1,000 (US$320) per
classroom over the project's five-year period, or an average of $64 per classroom per year.
A small number of existing classrooms (about 5,500) will require more extensive
maintenance and/or minor rehabilitation to bring them up to standard.
Table 2: School Maintenance Costs
(over five years)
i             Type                   Classroms     Cost (US$ mullions)!l
A. Existing Schools
Maintenance                          5,544               '.1
Major Maintenance or Rehabilitation  63,761                4
B. New Classrooms
Maintenance                          8,560               2.7
Total                           |          N/A               30.2
10.   Procedures. A handbook designed under the project would guide School Councils
and others involved in maintenance activities. The School Council's existence and full
functioning are conditions for participation in the maintenance program. The yearly schedude
of schools to receive maintenance funding will be done by supervisors in coordination with
the municipal government, on the basis of building age, use, and School Council
commitment to implement the maintenance program as described in the handbook.
C. Supervision Offices
11.   The role of supervisors will be amplified under the project to include pedagogical
elements. To ensure that adequate and frequent supervision is provided in all project areas,
the proposed sites for supervisor and sector chief offizes will provide for easy accessibility to
the project schools. The construction of the offices will be via competitive bidding
coordinated by CAPFCE.



-90 -                                    ANNEX 11
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
DI Warehouses
12.   Transportation of textbooks and other instructional materials from Mexico City to
central warehouses in the states has been relatively expeditious and safe, but serious
problems have occurred between the state warehouses and the classrooms due to storage and
transportation difficulties and overburdened officials, resulting in the loss of or damage to
materials. The current system, based on rental of intermediary facilities or temporary loan
of public or private space, is neither a functional or a long-term solution. These problems
will be addressed through investment in an improved distribution network, tailored to the
conditin.ns prevailing in each state.
13.   Design and Costs. The Government has planned the construction of 68 warehouses
as a crucial link in state-wide books and materials distribution networks. The project design
will: (a) conform to agreed upon criteria and requirements; (b) be modular, to meet
differing capacity needs; and (c) take advantage of warehouse models designed by CAPFCE
for PARE, which have been revised and improved. The location of warehouses will be
deternined by individual state studies of distribution needs (see Part E below). Construction
of warehouses will be carried out by CAPFCE, at a total cost of US$4.1 million, as shown
in Table 3 below:
Mhble 3: Warehouse Construction by State
No.           Total Cost          Total Cost
(N$ OOOs)         (US$ OOOs)
Campeche                   3                547.4              175.5
Durango                    4                875.9              280.7
Guanajuato                 3                656.9              210.6
Jalisco                    10             1,532.8              491.3
Michoacan                 11              1,970.8              631.7
Puebla                     13             2,408.7              772.0
San Luis Pbtosi            6              1,532.8              491.3
Tabasco                    6              1,094.9              350.9
Veracruz                   9              1,204.4              386.0
Yucatan                    3                985.4              315.8
Total                      68            12,810.0             4,105.8
14.   Economic Justification. Under net present value calculations, the construction of
warehouses would be viable if the annual cost of leasing a warehouse exceeded N$22,616
(US$7,415) per year (assuming it has a 25-year useful life). In fact, the average cost of
renting a substitute warehouse is N$32,730 (US$10,730). Thus the construction of the
warehouses is justified. The prevailing justification for warehouse construction, however, is
more qualitative than quantitative. In the beneficiary tiunicipalities, selected on the basis of
extreme poverty, no facility is available for proper book storage. For over forty years now,
several factors (poverty, isolation, weather conditions) have prevented books from reaching
the poorest schools and classrooms in an acceptable condition and in a timely manner. The
constucton of strategically located warehouses will remedy this situation.



-91-                                  ANNEX 11
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCURE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
E. Distribution of Materials
15.   Each project state will draw up distribution plans, including proposed location of
warehouses, to make best use of existing roads and highways while giving appropriate
consideration to geographical features such as mountains, rivers, etc. The distribution plas
will also take into account the location of and logistics surrounding existing facilities,
including sectoral headquarters, warehouses, location of facilities currently used as
provisional warehouses, and the optimal part-time use of education supervisors for delivery
of books and materials.
16.   Distribution Plans. The distribution plans will be shown in a table which will
contain the following information:
(a) Existing warehouses, regardless of type
(b) Type of warehiouse (regular, temporary, loaned space, schoolhouse, etc.)
(c) Local capacity in square meters
(d) Problems, such as lack of security, flooding, etc.
(e) Losses due to such problems (in % and N$)
(f) Municipalities served by each warehouse
(g) Number of schools in municipality (in line with the municipality in item 6).
(h) Warehouse capacity required in m2 to meet peak demand
(i) Maximum distance between warehouse and furthest school served
(j) Estimated cost of transport between warehouse and schools
(k) Annul cost of operation (warehouse staff salary, leases, etc.)
17. The proposed distribution system will be presented in a format which would inchlde
the following information:
(a) Warehouse concerned under the proposed plan; this will include existng ones which
are the responsibility of SEP that do not have too many problems
(b) Work to be done: build, repair, lease, enlarge
(c) Municipalities that will be served by the warehouse
(d) Warehouse capacity (mi2) that will be required by each mumicipality; this should
include anticipated enrollment increasesldecreases, and where this is not possible to
anticipate, it may be assumed that the requirements will be the same as the prior year
(e) Total warehouse capacity (all warehouses)
(f) Maximum distance between warehouse and furthest school served
(g) Estimated cost of transport between warehouse and schools
(h) Annual operating costs; in cases where the warehouse is located at a regional office or
sectoral offlice, security costs for that warehouse will be zero
(i) Cost of the investment and value of the construction, repair, or modification to be
undertaken
(j) Annual investment amortization cost of the investment; either 17 or 25 years at an
interest rate similar to that paid by PARE.
18.  In order for the proposed system to be worth embarking on, the amount invested will
need to be less than the savings. In other words, the annual recurrent costs of the current



-92 -                                  ANNEX 11
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
system (losses + transportation + operating costs) less the recurrent costs of the proposed
system (transportation + operating costs) should be greater than the annual amortization of
the investment. If in the first analysis the comparison is unfavorable, then it will be
necessary to either reduce the investment or find ways of increasing the recurrent cost
savings. This could possibly be done by relocating warehouses closer to schools served.
L: Construction Unit Costs
19.   Analytical Framework. The unit costs for each type of construction were established
after assessing different building methods and administrative procedures. The analysis
started with the most representative type of construction, the single room schoolhouse, and
generalized to other construction types. Smaller, community-based civil works are less
expensive than larger ones put out for bidding. To identify the square meter cost, the
following steps were taken:
(a) An analysis was performed on a sample of representative construction budgets worth
considering because (i) their figures concurred with previous data and (ii) standard
models were used. The resulting cost per rn2 was N$913 for SOLIDARIDAD
subprojects;
(b) Under the 1991 Decentralization and Regionalization Development Project (Loan
3310-ME), SOLIDARIDAD would award the municipality an average of 8 percent of
the value of the civil works for project management. The proposed project will pay 7
percent, reducing the average N$913 per m2 to N$905 per m2;
(c) The SOLIDARIDAD budgets, however, were only estimates, and if the allocated
resources were insufficient, then the community needed to contribute more. This was
confirmed by local officials, and is evidenced by half-finished schools, waiting for
more resources the following year. Therefore, it will be necessary to add a sufficiunt
amount to cover the unpredictable budget modifications. For this, CAPFCE data was
used, since the main causes of budget overruns are the same ones as for
SOLIDARIDAD, nainely remoteness of the construction sites, and construction during
the rainy season. The difference in CAPFCE's costs estimates and final costs has
been found to be an average 47 percent. If this percentage is applied to N$905, the
result will be N$1,330 per in2, which is the base cost of construction, including all
the necessary work in a schoolhouse, such as site preparation, eaves and paving for
walkways; and
(d) School construction costs also include a 5 percent increase to cover exterior work,
such as courtyard enclosures, sidewalks, drainage for rinwater runoff, as applicable.
Therefore, N$ 1,330 plus 5 percent equals N$1,397 per in2; this last figure fonns the
basic unit cost of classroom construction.
20.   Construction Base Costs. A similar method was used to calculate the unit costs for
the various facilities to be built under the subcomponent, taking into consideration the
requirements of individual units. The costs (summarized in Table 4) are listed as follows:



-93-                                    ANNEX 11
PIHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
(a) Schools. Applying the estimated cost of N$1,397/m2 to an average schoolhouse of 36
rn2, results in a cost of N$50,300 or US$16,122. Approximately 35 percent of
CAPFCE civil works projects in the stte of Cbiapas, for example, fall wit  this
cost estimate;
(b) iblets. A module of 9 m2, consisting of 3 toilets, 2 sinks and a urinal, will cost
US$6,058;
(c) Latrines. A module of 4 units with 4 m2, will cost US$2,147;
(d) Warehous. A module of 96 m2 with toilet, will cost US$47,436;
(e) Supervors' Office. A module of 36 rn2 with toilets would cost of US$17,756;
(f) Classroom Furniture. Each classroom will be furnished with 30 individual
deskchairs, a teacher's table and chair,- a blackboard and a bookshelf for the Reading
Corner and other insutional materials, costing US$1,250; and
(g) lbtable Water. The water solution cannot be as easily generalized depending on the
conditions existg in each region and even each school case. The average cost of a
ckistern was estimated at US$1,282.
Table 4: Construction Unit Coss
size                      costs
Type               (sM2)      UnitCost        Cost          Cost
__     ;               ~~~~~~~~(N$/mi2)     (N$)     
Community Clsoms               36            1397        50,300        16,122
Toilts                         9             2100        18,900         6,058
Latiri-s                       4             1675         6,700         2,147
Warehouses                     96            1542        148,000       47,436
Supervisor' Offices            36            1539        55,400        17,756
Classroom Funiture            N/A          N/A            3,900         1,250
Potable Water                 N/A          N/A            4,000         1,282



- 94 -                                           ANNEX 11
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
Table 5: Baseline Data for Calculation of Construction Unit Costs
Project       E!KeIUtDr     Cost    VAT   Sub-total   Spo. &Admin.    Total
Project       E'wcutor      (N$      (?I)             % Amu
(N$) |(N$)                 %     Amut        $              ($
Hidalgo-l      Contzactor        22,584    2,258   24.842      4      994   25,836    53          487
Hidalgo-2      SOLIDARIDAD       30,689    1,676   32,365      8    2,589   34,954    36
Hidalgo-3      SOLIDARIDAD       31,979    1,805   33,784      8    2,703   36,487    36    1,014
Hidalgo4       SOLIDARIAD        31,220    2,349   33,569      8    2,686   36,255    48
Vera Cruz-1    Contractor        33,627    3,362   36,989      4     1,480   38,469    49         785
Vera Cruz-2    Contractor        15,806    1,580   17,386      4      695   18,081    30          603
lhbasco        Contractor       40,200    4,020   44,220       4     1,769   45,989    48         958
Guanajuato     Contractor        45,554    4,555   50,109      4    2,004   52,113    49        1,064
[MUE BASEr  CAPFCE               29.097    2.910   32,007      4     1.280   33.287    32       1.040
Chiapas-73     CAPFCE            27,750    2,775   30,525      4     1,221   31,146    32         992
Chiapas-74a    CAPFCE            27,223    2,722   29,945      4     1,198   31,143    32         973
Chiapas-74b    CAPFCE            30,814    3,081   33,895      4     1,356   35,251    32       1,102
Chiapas-83a    CAPFCE            24,550    2,455   27,005      4     1,080   28,085    32         878
Chiapas-83b    CAPFCE            25,814    2,581   28,395      4     1,136   29,531    32         923
Chiapas-90a    CAPFCE            43,050    4,305   47,355      4     1,894   49,249    32       1,539
Chiapas-90b    CAPFCE            45,314    4,531   49.845      4     1,994   51,839    32       1,620
Chiapas-92a    CAPFCE           48,550    4,855   53,405       4    2,136   55,541    32        1,736
Chiapas-92b    CAPFCE            54,814    5,481   60,295      4    2,412   62,707    32        1,960
Chiapas-93a    CAPFCE            51,550    5,155   56,705      4    2,268   58,973    32        1,843
Chiapas-93b    CAPFCE            44,814    4,481   49,295      4     1,972   51,267    32       1,602
Chiapas-94     CAPFCE            41,550    4,155   45,705      4     1,828   47,533    32       1,485
Chiapas-97     CAPFCE            42,814    4,281   47,095      4     1.884   48,979    32       1,531
Chiapas-98     CAPFCE            29,814    2,981   32,795      4     1,312   34,107    32       1,066
Chiapas-99a    CAPFCE            35,909    3,591   39,500      4     1,580   41,080    32       1,284
Chiapas-99b    CAPFCE            46,814    4,681   51,495      4    2,060   53,555    32        1,674
Chiapas-103    CAPFCE            26,146    2,615   28,761      4     1,150   29,911    32         935
Chiapas-104    CAPFCE            39,814    3,981   43,795      4     1,752   45,547    32       1,423
Chiapas-107a    CAPFCE           50,550    5,055   55,605      4    2,224   57,829    32        1,807
Chiapas-107b    CAPFCE           58,814    5,881   64,695      4    2,588   67,283    32        2,103
Chiapas-108a    CAPFCE           51,050    5,105   56,155      4    2,246   58,401    32        1,825
Chiapas-108b    CAPFCE           52,314    5,231   57,545      4    2,302   59,847    32        1,870
Chiapas-109    CAPFCE           44,314    4,431   48,745       4     1,950   50,695    32       1,584
Chiapas-I lOb   CAPFCE           58,814    5,881   64,695      4    2,588   67,283    32        2,103
Chiapas-lI  la    CAPFCE        48,550    4,855   53,405       4    2,136   55,541    32        1,736
Cbiapas-1 12b   CAPFCE          30,064    3,006   33,070       4     1,323   34,393    32       1,075
Chiapas-1 14a    CAPFCE          50,550    5,055   55,605      4    2,224   57,829    32        1,807
Chiapas-1lSa    CAPFCE          40,550    4,055   44,605       4     1,784   46,389    32       1,450
Chiapas-I15b    CAPFCE           33,146    3,315   36,461      4     1,458   37,919    32       1,185
Chiapas-1 16a   CAPFCE          52,550    5,255   57,805       4    2,312   60,117    32        1,879
Chiapas-I 16b   CAPFCE          50,314    5,031   55,345       4    2,214   57,559    32        1,799
Chiapas-1l9    CAPFCE            51,064    5,106   56,170      4    2,247   58,417    32        1,826
Chiapas-121a   CAPFCE           49,550    4,955   54,505       4    2,180   56,685    32        1,771
Chiapas-121b    CAPFCE          46,814    4,681   51,495       4    2,060   53,555    32        1,674
Chiapas-122a   CAPFCE           46,550    4,655   51,205       4    2,048   53,253    32        1.664
Chiapas-122b    CAPFCE          40,227    4,023   44,250       4     1,770   46,020    32       1,438
Chiapas-124a    CAPFCE          43,550    4,355   47,905       4     1,916   49,821    32       1,557
Chiapas-124b    CAPFCE           33,064    3,306   36,370      4     1,455   37,825    32       1,182
Chiapas-127    CAPFCE           46,550    4,655   51,205       4    2,048   53,253    32        1,664
CAPFCE Averag                  1,527
July CAPFCE Estimate           1,040
Difference (%)                   47
Average Cost per tn2 of         913
boxed area



-95 -                                 ANNEX 12
STRENGTHENING OF
PLANNING AND POUCY ANALYSIS
STRENGTHENING OF PLANNING AND POLICY ANALYSIS
Justification
1.    The decentralization process under way in Mexico presents new opportunities that
challenge educational planners, policymakers, and administrators both at the central avnd at
the state level. Concretely, the major challenge is how to continue expansion while quality is
improved. The move to decentralization calls for the involvement of authorities at the local,
regional, and central levels of policymaking and representatives of the community. Increased
participation and negotiation in all areas of decisionmaking are necessary at this particular
time.
2.    The main lessons learned from previous education projects in Mexico, LAC and other
parts of the world should be made available in accessible state-of-the-art to planners and
decisionmakers, so that they can study them to learn how to apply them in their local
environments. An agreement was reached with Mexican authorities on a series of workshops
focused on a range of educational issues such as increasing the quality of education systems
so that people leave school with the means to apply knowledge, skij%s and values required for
better living; achieving equity in the distribution of educational resources and opportunities to
extend education to people of different socioeconomic backgrounds; and improving the
efficiency of the educational system through cost-effective strategies.
3.    The workshops should provide an opporunity for reflection, discussion and leaming
to high level state education officials to examine policy options to maximize efficiency,
quality, and equity in the provision of education. The workshops will also challenge these
officials to tink about the problems they face in new ways, consistent with the most up-to-
date knowledge. About 470 staff-months of fellowship, 90 for overseas traiing and 380 for
local traiiing, will be provided for these workshops during the five years of the project.
Content
4.    An overseas workshop on education assessment will deal with state-of-the-art
techniques to properly measure education achievement. The following topics will be
included: (a) purpose of test and testing programs; (b) the use of test-derived data to
improve education; (c) type of test (non-referenced and criterion-referenced tests); (d)
different test formats; (e) planning for a test; (f) reliability and validity; (g) test equating; (h)
standardization; (i) field work, data collection; (j) how to analyze and use test results
effectively; and (k) how to present test results. This workshop will be offered to central and
state level officials in charge of education assessment. It will also cover aspects related with
how to establish a state assessment capacity and how to develop and operate an assessment
program. About 15 fellowship months of staff training will be provided for this workshop
during the first two years of the project.



-96 -                                 ANNEX 12
STRENGTHENING OF
PLANNING AND POUCY ANALYSIS
5.    A local workshop on measurement issues in education assessment will be offered to
state level staff in charge of technical issues. About 22.5 fellowship months of staff training
will be provided bor this workshop during the first three years of the project.
6.    A local workshop on research methodologies and techniques for evaluation of
education projects, including methodological designs, survey and qualitative analysis, data
collection instruments design, summative and formative evaluation, impact and process
evaluation, and research and decision making will be provided to central and state staff.
About 20 fellowship months of staff training will be provided during the first and the third
year of the project.
7.    Two local workshops on education statistics will be provided. The first one, on
issues of the education management information system, will be offered to central and state
directors for a total of 10 fellowship months during the first and t.ie third years of the
project. The second, on education indicators and education statistics data6ses, will be
offered to central and state technical staff for a total of six fellowship months of staff training
durng the second and fourth years of the project.
8.    An overseas workshop on planning and policy analysis will be offered during the first
and second years of the project covering the following topics: planning and policy analysis
in education systems, educational policy design, education information systems, conducting
and using education survey research and evaluation studies, policy analysis tools and
techniques, resource allocation modeling, planning for implementation, education and labor
market outputs, school governance issues, and multicultur I education. About 54 fellowship
months of staff training will be offered to central and state directors.
9.    Several seminars will be offered on project administraton to PCU and SPCU staff.
The first one, on management and monitoring, will be offered the first, third and fifth years
of the project for a total of 33 fellowship months of staff training. The second, on cost
account, will be offered the first and third years of the project for a total of 17 fellowship
months of staff training. The third one will cover aspects on organization development and
will be offered the first and third years of the project for a total of 30 fellowship months of
staff training.
10.   A series of visits to new and imnovative education models on multigrade schools
(Guatemala's Nueva Escuela Unitaria and Indigenous Education Project, PRONEBI;
Colombia's Escuela Nueva; El Salvador's EDUCO schools; Chile's 900 schools) and on the
assessment systems of Chile and Colombia, will be financed during the first four years of the
project. A total of 16 fellowship months of cental and local staff training will be provided.
11.   Two kinds of workshops on education microplanning will be provided. The frst one,
on methodological and technical aspects for local state planning units will provide for 35
fellowship months of training the first three years of the project. The second will be directed
to central and state directors on how to use microplanning for educational decision making.
A total of 25 fellowship months for -staff training wi}l be provided.



- 97 -                                ANNEX 12
STRENGTHENING OF
PLANNING AND POLICY ANALYSIS
12.   Currently, a series of visits have been organized to exchange experiences with PARE
implementors. The visits have proved to be successful to disseminate good lessons. The
PAREB project will provide for 70 staff months to support exchange visits between
participants during the five years of the project.
13.   Before the decentralization, DGPPP was in charge of conducting the annual
progmming and budgeting exercise at the state level. Currently, DGPPP norms the
exercise but each SEE has the direct responsibility of implementing the annual programming
and budgeting. Local seminars will be offered during the first two years of the project, to
train PCU and SPCU staff in programming and budgeting strategies, budget implementation
and evaluation.,
14.   To faiiliarize PCU and SPCU staff with disbursement and procurement procedures,
the project will finance about 21.1 fellowship months of staff training to attend international
and national seminars and workshops on these topics during the five years of the project.
15.   To improve the capacity for statistical analysis and data manipulation among staff
involved with the project at the central and state levels, a workshop on the use statistical
packages will be offered eight times during the liif of the project for a total of 30 staff
months of training.



-98-                                  ANNEX 13
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
EVALUATION & PROJECT MIS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Process Evaluation
1.    Objectives. The main objective of the process evaluation is to assess the quality and
the short-term effects of the project's main subcomponents, specifically: teacher training,
teacher incentives, supervision, pedadogical network, book distribution, Reading Corners,
books for indigenous schools, and community participation. This will complement the
monitorirg evaluation (conducted directly by the PCU and the SPCUs) to assess whether the
projects structure and strategies are being adequately implemented and how this strucure
and the related activities should be changed or adjusted to meet the project's objectives.
2.    Methodology. Process evaluaticn will rely mainly on systmatic observations at
participating communities and schools and will be based mainly on a case study approach
combining quantitative as well as qualitative research techniques.
3.    "ne Frame. The observations will be undertaken during the whole implementation
cycle of the project, but mainly during the first four years of project implementation to
provide feedback for management decisions.
4.    Elements of Research Proposal for Process Evaluation. The process evaluation
proposals should include:
(a)   Specification of main research (process evaluation) questions;
(b) Sampling framework;
(c)   Proposed measures and indicators as well as draft instruments;
(d)   Definition of logistics of field work;
(e)   Definition of schedule of field work;
(f)   Definition of methods for data treatment, including data processing and
analysis. Qualitative evaluation methods will be required (direct observation,
structured and semi-structured interviews, open-ended questionnaires, focus
groups, etc);
(g) Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be undertaken and their
respective durations;
(h) Proposed staffing;
(i)    Detailed budget including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e.,
direct (personnel and others) and indirect costs for each process evaluated; and
(j)   Coordination mechanisms with project administrators should be discussed with
CONAFE and state authorities and incorporated into the proposal.
5.    Criteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
pertinence between the methodological and technical aspects of the proposal and the specified
elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks and time
proposed for implementation); and experience of the researchers in education research,
particularly in process evWaluation.



-9 -                                  ANNEX 13
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
EVALUATION & PROJECT MIS
B Project Management Information System
6.    Genera! Objectives. To develop an information system based on simplified data
collection formaK; and analytical and feedback procedures to improve project planning,
budgeting, and management. The project MIS will be designed to allow statistical
information to improve the overall CONAFE-PCU management. The project would support
the integration of databases into an efficient information storage and retrieval system at the
central and local levels (CONAFE and SPCUs), built around appropriate hardware and
management software. The design of the system will reflect information needs idertified
during a preparatory study, the results of which will be reviewed at negotiations.
7.    Information System Design
(a)   Objective. To design a system to provide timely and valid information for
follow-up purposes and problem identification during project implementation;
(b)   Technical Requirements. The information system is required to:
(i)   be based on portable hardware and software such as standard
microcomputers, Unix-like operating systems, and so called 4th
generation programming languages to shorten the system development
time, preserve independence from vendors, and alleviate problems of
high personnel turnover; and
(ii)  include the following: specification of the different databases needed
and their relationship; the information structure to identify sources and
users of information for planning and management purposes; a system
stucture to identify information volumes and the different applications;
a technology structure to specify the software and hardware to be used;
a training program for administrators and operators; data collection
instruments; data collection and dissemination procedures, including
operation manuals; and an implementation schedule, including
specification for software and hardware acquisition, and pilot testing
and overall implementation; and
(c)   Cnrteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection must
include the pertinence between the methodological and technical aspects of the
proposal and the specified system characteristics; the pertinence of the
schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for
implementation); and researchers' experience with information system design.



-100-                                  ANNEX 14
TERiMS Gi REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDIES
A. Preschool Education Study
1.          Objectives. The study attempts to generate the necessaty infonmation to: (a)
analyze the preschool education sector; (b) identify and discuss the major issues and
constraints pertaining to the sector; (c) describe the Governments' preschool education
strategy; and (d) make recommendations for improvements in the quality, efficierny and
access to preschool education.
2.    Specific Issues. The specific issues to be included in the study are:
(a)   The extent to which the current structure of preschool education is adequately
serving Mexico's needs for human resources development, and evenally how
such structure and the related strategies should be changed or adjusted to meet
thosc; needs;
(b)   The extent to which preschool education quality is adequate in terms of
learning achievement and students' psycho-social development;
(c)   The search for the most cost-effective modality(ies); and
(d)   The demands of preschool education expansion.
3.    Methodology. The study will be based on secondary information analysis. The
following elements must be included in the final report:
(a)   An historical overview and documentation about the significant improvements
of access to preschool education in Mexico, including enrollments, teahhing
staff, and number of schools; a description of different forms of preschool
education (formal and informal systems); an eammination of the public
expenditures, by type of expenditure and unit costs, in preschool education;
(b)   A description of the administrative structure of the sector, stressing the role of
SEP and the states in the context of the recent education decentralization;
(c)   A description of the education strategy of the Govemment for the preschool
sector as descrlbed in the 1992 ANAM and the 1993 LGE;
(d)   An analysis of the main issues in the preschool education sector, including
equity and access; internal efficiency; quality of preschool education;
characteristics of the teaching staff, including quality of teaching, teachers'
formation and inservice training; supervision system; infrastrucre; resources
allocation; and community participation; and
(e)   A list of recommendations responding to the issues discussed in part (d).
4.   Time Frame. The study would be undertaken during the first year of the project by
a researcher or a group of researchers, with high qualifications and experience in research
and education policy analysis, under the technical direction of the General Directorate for
Preschool Education.



-101-                                  ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
5.    Elements of Researcb Proposal. The final research proposal should include the
following elements:
(a)   Specification of report contents;
(b)   Description of information that will be used for each section;
(c)   Definition of schedule of data analysis and report writing. A final report
should be produced and delivered to CONAFE and the Bank;
(d)   Detailed budget, including direct (personnel and others) and indirect costs; and
(e)   Coordination mechanisms with CONAFE.
6.    Criteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
pertinence between the proposed sources of information and the report contents; the
pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for
implementation); and experience of the reseachers in education policy analysis and education
research.
D. Secondary Education Studies
7.    Introduction. According to the 1993 LGE, one of the most pressing policies of the
education system is to expand mandatory basic education to also inclu'X the first three years
of secondary education. The objective of the secondary education stuaies would be to help
establish Government policies to improve coverage at the same time that the quality,
relevance, and cost-effectiveness of secondary education are improved. Besides the
assessment of internal and external efficiency to see the extent to which the current secondary
education curriculum is adequately serving Mexico's needs for human resources
development, it is necessary to analyze the following aspects: management, curriculum,
teacher training, finance, and fcilites Five studies will be supported under the project to
examine: (a) Secondary Education Assessment; (b) Socioeconomic Analysis of Secondary
Education Dropouts; (c) Teacher' and Supervisors' Working Conditions and Attitudes; (d)
Effective Secondary Education Schools; and (e) Financial Implication of Basic Education
Expansion.
Rl. Secondary Education Assessment
8.    Objectives. The diagnostic study on secondary education attemnpts to generate the
necesay information to: (a) analyze the secondary education sector; (b) identify and discuss
the major issues and constraints pertining to the sector; (c) describe the Governmenfs
secondary education strategy; and (d) make recommendations for improvements in the
quaity, efficiency and access to secondary education.
9.    Specific Issues. The specific issues to be included in the study are:
(a)   The extent to which the curret stmcture of seondary education is adequately
serving Mexico's needs for human resource development, and eventually how
such structure and the related strategies should be changed or adjusted to meet
those needs;



- 102 -                                ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
(b)   The extent to which secondary education quality is adequate in terms of
learning achievement;
(c)   The search for the most cost-effective modality(ies); and
(d)   The nature and costs of secondary education expansion.
10.   Methodology. The study will be based on secondary information analysis. The
following elements must be included in the final report:
(a)   An historical overview and documentation about the coverage and access to
secondary education in Mexico, including enrolhnents, teaching staff, and
number of schools; a description of different modalities of secondary
education, by private and- public sub-systems; and an examination of the public
expenditures, by type of expenditure and unit costs; percentage of GNP and of
government spending;
-(b)   A description of the administrative structure of the sector, stressing the role of
SEP and the states in the context of the recent education decentralization.
Particular attention should be given to whether the decentralized system of
managig, organizing and financing the secondary system is adequate, and
how financing and management should be changed to meet future needs,
including to what extent decision making should be decentralized to individual
schools and directors.
(c)   A description of the education strategy of the Government for the secondary
education sector as described in the ANAM and LGE;
(d)   An analysis of the main issues in the secondary education sector, including
equity and access; internal efficiency, including transition rates from prinary
to secondary, dropout and repetition rates, student-teacher ratios, completion
rates; characteristics of the teacher's body, including quality of teaching (if
available, quality of inputs, including textbooks, teaching and learning
materials, supervision, school construction and maintenance, laboratories and
workshops; and quality of output as defined by learning and achievement,
including results of standardized tests in subject areas), teachers' formation and
inservice training; supervision system; infastructure; resources allocation; and
community participation; and,
(e)   A list of recommendations responding to the issues discussed in part (d).
11.  lTne Frame. The study would be undertaken during the first year of the project by
a researcher or a group of researchers, with high qualifications and experience in research
and education policy analysis, under the technical direction of the Subsecretariat for
Secondary Education.
12.   Elments of Research Proposal. The final research proposal should include the
following elements:
(a)   Specification of report contents;
(b)   Description of information that will be used for each section;



-103-                                 ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
(c) Definition of schedule of data analysis and report writing. A final report
should be produced and delivered to CONAFE and the Bank;
(d)   Detailed budget, including direct (personnel and others) and indirect costs; and
(e)   Coordination mechanisms with CONAFE.
13.   Criteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
pertinence between the proposed sources of information, and the report contents; the
pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for
implementation); and experience of the researchers in edscation policy analysis, and
education research.
B.2. Socioeconomic Analysis of Secondary Education Dropouts
14.   Objectives. The study aims at identifying the socioeconomic and demographic
characteristics of secondary education dropouts as well as the geographical location of the
dropouts to propose ways to increase access to secondary education by underprivileged
groups.
15. Methodology. The study will be based on secondary infbrmation analysis. Two sets
of information will be analyzed: (a) SEP aggregate data (municipality and state level) about
secondary education coverage and internal efficiency indicators (absorption rate, repetition,
dropout, and efficiency rate), and CONAPO poverty indicators; and (b) individual data
(individuals and families) from the INEGI household surveys on labor and employment. The
first set will be analyzed to identify the geographical location of secondary education
backwardness (rezago) and its correlates with poverty indicators. The second set will be
analyzed to identify the socioeconomic characteristics of secondary education dropouts.
16.  TIme Frme. The study would be undertaken under contractual arrangements with
CONAFE over the first year of the project by a researcher or a group of fesearchers, with
high q. ilifications and experience in research and education policy analysis, under the
technical direction of the Subsecretariat for Secondary Education.
17.   Elements of Research Proposal. The final research proposal should include both
type of analysis, ad should specify the following elements:
(a)   Report contents;
(b)   Description of informadon that will be used for each type of analysis,
including the models to be analyzed, including comparison by socioeconomic
groups -including gender, geographical region, income, ethnicity,
rural/urban/urban marginal. Multivariate analysis must be used;
(c) Definition of schedule of data analysis and report writing. A final report
should be produced and delivered to CONAFE and the Bank;
(d)   Detailed budget, including direct (personnel and others) and indirect costs; and
(e)   Coordination mechanisms with CONAFE.



-104-                                  ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
18.   Criteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
pertinence between the proposed sources of information, the methodological and technical
aspects, and the specific research elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate
relation between tasks and time proposed for implementation); and experience of the
researchers in survey research and statistical analysis.
B.3. Teachers' and Supervisors' Working Conditions and Atitudes
19.   Objectives. The study aims at collecting and analyzing, for the first time in the
country, information about secondary education teachers, school principals, and supervisors.
The information will include: (a) socioeconomic and family background characteristics; (b)
experience in the sector; (c) working conditions; (d) pedagogical practices; (e) attitudes
toward the secondary education curriculum, and problems facing secondary education; and
(t) self-reported training needs.
20.   Methodology. The study requires survey information from a national sample of
secondary education teachers, school principals, and supervisors.
21.   ISme Vrame. The study would be undertaken during the second year of the project
by a researcher or a group of researchers, with high qualifications and experience in survey
research and education policy analysis, under the technical direction of the Subsecretariat for
Secondary Education.
22.   Elements of Research Proposal. The final research proposal should include the
following elements:
(a)   Specification of main research questions;
(b)   Sampling framework;
(c)   Proposed measures and indicators as well as draft instruments for data
collection;
(d)   Definition of logistics of field work;
(e)   Definition of schedule of field work;
(f)   Definition of methods for data treatment, including data processing, and
analysis.
(g) Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be undertaken and their
respective durations. This element should also include report schedule;
(h)   Proposed staffing;
(i)    Detailed budget including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e. direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs for each process evaluated; and
(.i) Coordination mechanisms with project administrators should be discussed with
CONAFE and state authorities and incorporated into the proposal.
23.   Criteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
pertnence between the methodological and technical aspects of the proposal and the specific
research elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks



-105 -                                 ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
and time proposed for implementation); and experience of the researchers in survey research
and statistical analysis.
B.4. Effective Secondary Education Schools
24.   Objectives. Identify the educational characteristics of effective secondary education
schools. Effective schools are those with high internal efficiency indicators, including
educational achievement.
25.   Specific Issues. Describe what education inputs effective school use and how they
use them. What process factors distinguish these schools from others in their same education
districts. Attention should be given, among others, to the school environment, school goals
and expectations, school sense of community, and school instructional leadership. Teachers
and principals' attitudes, and behavior need to be included in the analysis.
26. Methodology. A case study approach (combining qualitative and quantitative
methodologies) should be used to study a selected controlled sample of 6 to 8 schools where
students get high scores in cognitive test (DGEIR could be used as a source of information).
27. T1me Frame. The study would be undertaken during the first year of the project by
a researcher or a group of researchers, with high qualifications and experience in research
and education policy analysis, under the technical direction of the Subsecretariat for
Secondary Education.
28. Elements of Research Proposal. The final research proposal should include the
following elements:
(a)   Specification of main research questions;
(b)   Sampling framework;
(c)   Proposed measures and indicators as well as draft instruments for data
collection (at district --supervisor level; school --school principal and teachers;
and classroom and student level);
(d)   Definition of logistics of field work;
(e)   Definition of schedule of field work;
(f)   Definition of methods for data treatment, including data processing, and
analysis.
(g)   Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be undertaken and their
respective durations. This element should also include report schedule;
(h)   Proposed staffing;
(i)   Detailed budget including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e. direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs for each process evaluated; and
(j)   Coordination mechanisms with project administrs should be discussed with
CONAFE and state authorities and incorporated into the proposal.
29.   Criteria for Proposal Selection. The critera for proposal selection include the
pertinence between the methodological and technical aspects of the proposal and the specific



-106 -                                 ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
research elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks
and time proposed for implementation); and experience of the researchers in qualitative
analysis and survey research analysis.
B.5. Financial Implications of Basic Education Expansion
30.   Objectives. One implication of the General Law of Education is the mandatory
expansion of basic education to include the three grades of lower secondary education. This
is based on two assumptions: (a) that education is a public good, and without public subsidy
people would invest in less than the socially optimal amount of education; and (b) the
expansion, through public subsidy, will promote equity by removing the ability to pay as a
condition for access. Given scarce public resources, it is critical that a detailed assessment
be made of the costs and timetable for full implementation. The study should yield reliable
and detailed cost estimates, along with a recommendation of a strategy and timetable for its
implementation.
31.   Specific Issues. The cost implications of extending basic education are complicated
by a number of factors: (a) there are four main types of secondary education (normal,
vocational, distance, and special) with varying unit costs; (b) a significant, but highly
variable, proportion of places in secondary school classrooms are vacant, thus a number of
children could be absorbed at little increase in operating costs as the basic infrastructure
already exists; but (c) the location of unattended children in relation to physical infrastructure
is not fullly known at present, thus making it difficult to estimate construction requirements.
32.   The study will look at each of these issues in detail, and take these issues into
account. Estimates will be made of the following incremental costs:
(a)   Capital - costs of constructing additional schools and classrooms; costs of
training additional teachers; other investment costs.
(b)   Recurrent - costs of additional teachers' salaries; didactic materials; student
materials; and other operating costs.
33.  It is also necessary to study the available, but unused capacity, which apparently is
large and could absorb a significant proportion of the increase in most urban areas with
minimal cost increases. The rural scenario, in which the Government is planning to expand
distance education modality ("TV Secundaria"), needs to be studied separately.
34.   In the 1993-1994 academic year, no increase was observed in the enrollments in
secondary education. The Govermment is designing a campaign to stimulate enrollment. The
cost associated with these campaigns will need to be included in the study.
35.   Methodology. In order to assess alternative policies for expanding secondary
education, two factors need to be taken into account: public resources and demographic
pressure. Regarding public resources available for public education, it is necessary to
analyze the trend in public spending on education as a share of the total education budget and
in the government budget as a share of GNP. The expectation of the economic growth in the



- 107 -                               ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
future needs to be analyzed to see if there is the potential for increasing government
spending. Regarding demographic conditions, it is necessary to analyze tie changes and shift
in population trends, specifically the grwth of secondary school-age population. A
comparison between the growth of public spending on education and the growth of the
school-age population will indicate if enrollment might increase. To complete this analysis,
it is necessary to project the resources available for expanding secondary education starting
from initial conditions including: current GDP, annual growth rate (economy and school-age
population), government budget (total and for the sector), share of government budget in
GDP and share of education budget in the government budget. Then, different scenarios
need to be studied depending on the assumptions related to changes in share of government
budget in GDP and of education in government budget, including altemative strategies and
timetables for the full implementation of their policy.
36.   Tlme Frame. The study would be undertaken during the first year of the project by
a researcher or group of researchers, with appropriate qualifications and experience in
economic research. The study should be completed by August, 1995 and will be subject to
joint review by the Government and the Bank.
37.  Elements of Research Proposal. The final research proposal should include the
following elements:
(a)   methods for estimating and analyzing the cost of expanding secondary
education enrollments, including measurig unit and marginal costs;
(b)   sources of infbrmation;
(c)   critena for defnition of different scenanos (combining modalities, expansion
of existing schools, etc);
(d) Implementation schedule specifying tasks to be undertaken and their respective
durations;
(e)   Proposed staffing; and
(f)   Detailed budget including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e. direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs for each process evaluated.
38.   Criteria for Proposal Slection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
pertinence between the methodological and technical aspects of the proposal and the specific
research elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks
.nd time proposed for implementation); and experience of the researchers in economic and
financial analysis.
C  Study on Environment and Educaton
39.   Objectives. The main objective of the study is to improve environmental education at
basic levels of Mexican schools on the basis of a review of the state of the current state of
the literature and experience on education and environment in Mexico, including contents of
educaton programs at different education levels, institutions (public and private) providing
educational services, and resources invested in environmental education.



-108 -                                 ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
40.   Specific kisues. The specific issues to be included in the study are:
(a)   To identify the policy frmnework on enviromnental education and the extent to
which the current programs are adequately serving the national policy on
science and technology;
(b)   To assess how the curriculum, at different education levels in both formal and
non-formal systems, has incorporated environmental concerns into the school
culture and the overall teaching and learming process, and how it has possibly
affected students' attitudes and behavior toward natural resources, their use
and conservation;
(c)   To describe the contents of environmental education in teacher training
programs, textbooks, teacher guides, Reading Corners, and other teaching and
learning materials;
(d)   To analyze how environmental education has been disseminated or supported
through mass-media mechanisms;
(e)   To specify the impact of natural hazards (earthquakes, floods, etc.) on
educational fcilides, school readiness, and teacher and student training; and
(f)   To identify the resources invested in environmental education.
41.   Methodology. The study will be based on secondary information analysis applied
with a historical perspective. The data-gathering process would include not only the
identification of the corresponding and updated bibliography but also visits to authorities and
scholars, specialized sectors at SEP and other institutions, and a representative group of
schools. A list of conclusions and reconmendations responding to the specific issues would
be included in the final report.
42.   Tlie Frame. The study would be undertaken under administrative arrangements
with CONAFE over four months of the first year of the project by a researcher with high
qualifications and experience in environmental education in Mexico. The researcher would
be required to submit a research proposal prior to the study.
43.   Elements of Research Proposal. The final research proposal should include the
following elements:
(a)   Specification of report contents;
0b)   Description of information that will be used for each section;
(c)   Definition of schedule for information gathering and analysis, and report
writing. A final report would be delivered to CONAFE and the Bank;
(d)   Detailed budget, including dirct (personnel and others) and ndirect costs; and
(e)   Coordination mechanisms with CONAFE.
44. Criteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
consistency between the proposed sources of information and the report contents; the
adequacy of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for
inplementation); and experience of the researchers in environmental education.



- 109 -                                ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
DI  Teaching Science at Primary Schools
45.   Objectives. To evaluate and select an innovative and cost effective approach to teach
primary school children of Mexico the basic scientific foundations of everya  life and
environment, and raise their awareness of the scientific understanding of technology. The
selected approach would be recommended to be adopted as a national strategy for science
education at the prunary education level in Mexico.
46.   Specific Issues. Two models of science teaching in primary rural schools will be
evaluated in order to generate the necessary empirical data to establish their comparative
cost-effectiveness. The specific issues to be evaluated are:
(a)   The impact of the models on students' cognidve achievement in sciences,
problem solving, and attitdes toward self, school, and society;
(b)   The administrative feasibility of each model implementation; and
(c)   The search for the most cost-effective modality.
47.   Structure of the Study. The study will be based on a teaching experiment developed
(under the Second Primary Education Project) in about 270 classrooms (approximately 120
primary schools ) of Mexico during two school years. The study would be undertaken over
a three-year period by a group with high qualifications and experience in research and
education policy analysis. A final report on the experiment is due in October 1997.
48.   Research Methodology. To assess the impact of different models of science
education, a cost-effectiveness analytic framework wiUl be applied. To the extent that
cognitive achievement, problem solving, and students' attitudes can be measured, a cost-
benefit approach wil be implemented. The cost analysis should focus on differences in the
cost between the different modalities of science education. The examination of model
effecfiveness will use the educational production function tools.
49.   The fllowing elements must be included in the evaluation proposal:
(a)   The evaluation would look for the following three possible effects of different
models on the student:
(i) Changes in cognitive achievement;
(ii) Changes in problem solving skills; and
(iii) Changes in attitudes toward science and technology, self, school, and
society.
(b) The evaluation would contemplate three testing points in time for assessing the
possible differential effects of different models:
(i) A base line, at the beginning of an academic year, measuring attitudes,
problem-solving slklls, and knowledge about the learnImg objectves of
the science curriculum;
(ii) Effects observable at the end of an academic year, after the students
have experienced the models; and
(iii) Effects observable at the end of the folowing year. This requires a
longitudinl panel data gathered from the same cohort of students.



-110 -                                  ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
(c)   The sample design should take into account the different types of primary
schools in the states of the project. Students from schools not participating in
any of the two models will serve as the first control group, but students in
each model will form a control group when compared with students in other
models;
(d)   The unit of observation will be the student. Because students from the same
school will have many characteristics in common, a more aggregate exercise
using the school as a unit of analysis will fail to test the hypothesis we are
interested in, because of masking of individual differences through averaging;
(e)   The dependent variables to be included should be as follows:
(i) Continuous cognitive and problem solving skills measures; and
(ii) attitude measures.
(f)   The independent variables will include measures of parents' socioeconomic
background; student gender and age; community socioeconomic characteristics;
school/teachers characteristics, such as school nature and modality, school -
expenditure per student, teacher quality, school quality, through and index of
quality of school inputs; and
(g)   Hypothesis testing. Crosstabulation and regression analysis will be used in
order to attempt to detect any significant effects of particular models on
students' achievement and attitudes, as follows:
(i) The regression will be of the general type:
Y = f(Model, region, background, individual, and school
characteristics), where Y is one of the dependent variables discussed
above; and
(ii)  To measure the cost-effectiveness of each model, the study will require
identification of the costs of each model, including supervision of
imnplementation, teacher training, materials, etc.
50.   Elements of Research Proposal. The final research proposals should include the
following elements:
(a)   Specification of main research (evaluation) questions;
(b)   Design of sample;
(c)   Design of information gathering instruments;
(d)   Definition of logistic of field work, including mechanisms to reduce the
attrition rate;
(e)   Definition of schedule of field work;
(f)    Definition of data processing;
(g)   Definition of statistcal models and methods of analysis to be used.
(h)   Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be done and their respective
durations. This element should also include report schedule. A report should
be produced and delivered to CONAFE and the Bank after the first two
measures. The final report should include the results from all measures and
the cost-effective analysis; and
(i)    Detailed budget, including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e.,
direct (personnel and others) and indirect costs. The implementation schedule



-11 1-                                 ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
and the budget would allow the contract to be divided into several phases and
payments to allow Bank review and approval on intermediary steps (e.g.,
questionnaire and test design, sample selection, review of first report).
51. Criteria for Proposal Selection. The criteria for proposal selection include the
pertinence between the methodological a id technical aspects of the proposal and the specified
research elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks
and time proposed for implemenation); and experience of the researchers in education
research, particularly in education evaluation.
52.   Study Coordination and Preparation. CONAFE, as the agency responsible for the
proposed project, will coordinate the experiment/study in conjunction with SEB and SEEs,
which will be responsible of the substantive matters.
53.   A specialist will be hired to serve as study/experiment coordinator at CONAFE under
terms of refrence agreed upon with the Bank. Resources must be available for easy
mobilization and frequent visits to the study-related activities in the project states and
schools. In the SEEs and SPCUs, liaison personnel must be selected and trained in a timely
manner, in order to cooperate with the coordinator in the experiment monitoring process.
The coordinators contract would start in March, 1995 and end with the final report delivery.
54.   A consultant would be hired in February, 1995 for four months (under terms of
reference agreed upon with the Bank) to lead the preparation process, including curriculum,
materials and teacher training design. The consultant's activities would be based on a close
dialogue with the Mexican authorities and other information-gathering strategies.
55.   The following activities would be developed by these consultants:
(a)   Teaching Experiment. The study will be conducted as a step-by-step
assessment of an actual teaching experiment taking place in project schools and
classrooms during the school years of 1995-96 and 1996-97. A curriculum
will be designed, teachers will be trained on the selected methodologies, and
instructiomnal materials have to be developed, as follows:
(i) Curriculum Design
a.    A curriculum will be developed by SEB and CONAFE for the
first, third, and sixth grades, and the necessary equipment
purchased or made. Reference has to be made to the best
examples of modem or hands-on science teaching methods
available.
b.    To help SEB design such curriculum, it is recessary to gather
information on the best experiences carried out (mainly in Latin
America) in science teaching at prinmry education level.
C.    Tvo different approaches to science teaching at this level would
be selected to be tested in the schools. The final report would
recommend (with justification based on cost-effectiveness) the
best one to be applied to the Mexican schools.



-112 -                                 ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
(ii) Teacher Training
a.    Current teachers in different types of project schools will be
selected to be adequately and timely trained to play their roles
as expected in their respective schools and classrooms.
b.    Two two-week (80 hours each) training sessions will take place
in August, 1995; and August, 1996. A detailed program for the
teacher training programs must be agreed upon with the Bank.
c.    Training must be given by experienced trainers (acceptable to
the Bank) in terns of content and methodology. Each trainer
specializes in one of the two approaches.
(iii)  Instructional Materials and Guides. Grade-related materials (according
to the curriculum) must be developed (made, printed, purchased).
Concrete experience and local experiments must be emphasized over
"bookish" description and formulation. Simple kits must be bought or
locally developed.
(b)   School Selecidon. A random sample of 270 (180 experiment + 90 control)
classrooms will be selected (and confirmed by an agreement) to participate in
the study, along the following lines:
(i) In each of the selected states (about 4) a set of representative (first,
third and six-graders; peri-urban, rural, indigenous schools, etc.)
classrooms would be selected in order to achieve a total four-state
figure of 180 experiment classrooms;
(ii) The 90 control classrooms should be located either in the same school
as a corresponding experiment classroom or in a comparable school of
the same municipality or state;
(ii) Each study school and classroom needs to be monitored either by the
national coordinator or the state coordinator. An early visit should be
paid to each selected school to recommend the experiment and support
the science teacher;
(iv)  Supervisors and school principals must be oriented (during their
training programs or during visits to their schools) on the objectives
and strategies of the experiment. Their support is extremely important
for the success of the study in the schools;
(v)  Some occasional visitors would be invited (possibly for a three-day
seminar with education authorities and the consultant) to: discuss the
strategies and results of their curricular, methodological and teacher
tning experiences; make specific recommendations on these topics;
and identify a basic bibliography on the subject; and
(vi)  A mid-term evaluation would be undertaken in June 1996 to assess the
experiment development and make recommendations. CONAFE, other
SEP sectors, three external consultants, representatives of the ten state
SPCUs, and approximately ten project teachers would take part in this
evaluation.
(c)   Calendar
(i) Consultant, and Mexican counterparts selected: January 1995
(ii) Consultant starts preparation: February 1995



-113 -                                 ANNEX 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
(iii) International (Latin Amer.) experiences discussed: February 1995
(iv)  Coordinator hired (CONAFE): March 1995 - October 1997
(v) Seminar for experience reporting: March 1995
(vi)  Study schools selected: April 1995
(vii)  Trainers selected: May 1995
(viii)  Curriculum designed and equipment selected: Ju  1995
(ix)  Teachers selected to be trained: June 1995
(x) Training strategies developed: July 1995
(xi)  First teacher training session: August 1995
(xii)  Experiment takes place from September 1995 through June 1997;
Second teacher training session: August 1996
(xiii) Progress reports due: 1995 - June, October; 1996 - February, June,
October; 1997- February, June
(xiv)  Final report due: October 1997
(xv)  Action plan developed by SEP: June 1998



-114 -                                 ANNEX 15
TEACHER INCENTIVES
PROGRAM
TEACHER INCENTIVES PROGRAM
1.    Objectives. The program seeks to promote regular attendance by teachers, so that
through their regular presence in the classroom, quality teaching will be fostered. This is
particularly targeted to isolated schools in rural and indigenous communities, which have
identified problems of teacher -bsenteeism or frequent turnover.
2.    Goals. The subcomponent intends to provide approximately 21,100 teacher/years
worth of incentives to approximately 7,000 teachers in the project states over the course of
the project life, as illustrated in TAble 1:
Tbble 1: Teacher/Years Selected by State and Project Year
94195   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99       Ibtal
Caampeche             67     134      201     268      335       1,005
Durango               63     126      188     251      314         942
Guanajuato            97     195      292     390      488       1,462
Jalisco              238     476      713     951    1,189       3,567
Michoacan            320     640      961    1,281   1,601       4,803
Puebla               147     293      440     586      733       2,199
San Luis Potosi       42      84      127     169      211         633
TIabasco              74     148      221     295      369       1,107
Veracruz             333     665      998   1,330   1,663        4,989
Yucatan               28      56       84     112      140         420
Total            1,409   2,817   4,225   5,633   7,043        21,127
3.    Desciption. For incentive granting purposes, "isolated commuunities" means those:
(a)   located beyond at least one-hour walking distance off the man roads or two-
hour vehicle ride on secondary roads; and
(b)   marked by low income levels and lack of basic services.
4.    The incentives can be given to teachers in any type or level of teaching position, with
the exception of teachers who already have another SEP compensation for working in small
and dispersed communities.
5.    A bilingual teacher with no formal teaching title or licenciatura can be granted the
incentives, if the director of the respective Normal School approves of the grant, and the



-115 -                                 ANNEX 15
TEACHER INCENTIVES
PROGRAM
teacher is committed to continuing the formal teacher training studies and is willing to submit
a progress report every six months.
6.    The incentive will be linked to the school and not to the teacher. Therefore:
(a)   more than one teacher per school can be grnted the incentives; and
(b)   if the teacher leaves that school, he/she will not carry that incentive with
him/her.
7.    As soon as they are selected for the program, the teacher is informed and receives
complete information on the program and obligations implied.
8.    Criteria, for School Seleton. The schools were selected in accordance with the
following criteria:
(a)   General Primary Schools:
(i) Schools closed for extreme isolation and the lack of teachers and which
are committed to be reopened upon receiving the incentive;
(ii) Unitary schools in general located far away from main roads;
(iii) Two-teacher schools in zones of average marginality and extremely
difficult access; and
(iv)  Three-teacher schools in zones of extreme poverty and difficult access
with frequent teacher turnover; and
(b)   Indigenous Primary Schools:
(i)  All primary schools; and
(ii) The incentive progamm can support the creation of new indigenous
schools when justified by the demand.
9.    Role of the School Council. The incentives will be granted to teachers with previous
endorsement by the School Coucil of the recipient school. The School Council will
monitor and verify the teacher's attendance. If the Council agrees, teachers can
compensate for school absences by giving classes on weekends or by extending the school
year so that the students can have the 200 school days required by law.
10.   Costs. The monthly incentive corresponds to N$950 (=US$305) per month or
N$11,400 (US$3,650) a year, and the projected disbursement is three times per year based
on actual teacher attendance. In order to keep up with inflation, the program will add 10
percent per year to the established teacher salary. The incentive amount will be revised
every July by SEP/DGPPP.
11.   Starting with the school year of 1994/1995, the program will cover 20 percent of the
projected number of eligible teachers, so that it can reach all the estimated eligible teachers
by the fifth project year, as outlined in Table 2.



-116-                                   ANNEX 15
TEACHER INCENTIVES
PROGRAM
abble 2: ¶Uacher Incentives by State
Base Costs (thousands of N$)
1994/95   1995196   1996/97   1997/98    1998/99    Total
Unit Cost                11.4       12.6      13.8      15.24     16.8
Campeche               763.8   1,688.4   2,773.8   4,084.32   5,628.0   14,938.3
Duango                 718.2   1,582.6   2,599.9   3,825.24   5,275.2   14,001.1
Guanajuato            1,105.8   2,457.0   4,029.6   5,943.60   8,198.4  21,734.4
Jalisco              2,713.2   5,992.6   9,844.9  14,493.24  19,975.2  53,019.1
Michoacan            3,648.0   8,069.0  13,256.3  19,522.44  26,896.8  71,392.6
Puebla                1,675.8   3,694.3   6,069.2   8,930.64  12,314.4  32,684.4
San Luis Potosi        478.8   1,063.4   1,747.1   2,575.56   3,544.8   9,409.7
a'hasco                843.6   1,859.8   3,055.3   4,495.80   6,199.2   16,453.7
Veacruz              3,796.2   8,381.5  13,769.6  20,269.20  27,938.4  74,155.0
Yucatin                319.2     705.6   1,159.2   1,706.88   2,352.0   6,242.9
ToWa        16,062.60  35,494.20  58,305.00  85,846.92 118,322.40 314,031.12



PROJECI AUTHORITY MATRIX
Direction/     Central         Central        State       State-level     Local
Component   Subcomponent       Activity      Planningj Irmplementation     Technical    Implementa-    Tebhnical    Participation   Beneficiaries
.______                I                                               Assistance       tion       Assistance
Huma; Resnarces Development  Training of      SEP         CONAFE,          Central        SEEs          State        N/A            Teachers &
lachers &                   DGEP & DGEI  Technical                       Technical                   Principals
Administrators                              Gmup, PAM,                   Groups
Consultants
Training of    SEP          CONAFE,         Consultants    SEEs          N/A           N/A           Supervisors
Supervisors                 DGPPP, DGPRL
& DGEP
Educational    Teaching Materials & Student    SEP        CONAFE           DGEP, DGEI  SEEs             N/A          Community   Teachers &
Material       Packages                                                    & Consultants                             (distribution)  Students
Resources      Reading Corners                SEP & UPE CONAFE             DGEP, DGPPP SEEs             N/A          N/A            Teachers &
& Consultants                                           Students
Indigenous Texts & Materials    DGEI      CONAPE           Consultants    SEES          N/A          Community   Indigenous
(input)       Students
astructure   Construction -   SEP &       CAPPCE &         N/A            State-level    N/A         N/A            Students &
Improvement  CAPFCE           NAFIN       CONAFE                          CAPFCE &                                  Teachers
SEES
Construction -   SEP &      N/A             N/A            SEEs &        SOPE &        Communities  Students &
Community      SEEs                                        Munici-       Statelevel    & School      Teacbers
.________   ________  __________ palities  CAPFCE    Councils
Maintenance    SEEs         N/A             N/A            Munici-       SOPE          Communities,  Students &
palities                   Supervisors &  Teachers
School
Councils
Istitutional   Managemt   Planning &          SEP         CONAFE           DGPPP,         SEEs          N/A          N/A            High-level       0
Strengthening    Capacity     Policy Analysis                              DGEIR &                                                 officials at   P i
Consultants                                             central & sa
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~~levels
Project MIS    SEP          CONAFE          DGPPP,         SEES          Consultants   N/A           PCU &
DOEIR &                                                 SPCUs          0
Consultants



Direction/ I    Central        Central        State       State-level     Local
Component   Subcomponent       Activity      Planning   lImplementation    Technical    Implementa-    Technical    Participation   Beneficiaries
Assistance      tion        Assistance
Education      SEB          CONAFE          Consultants    SEEs (liaison  N/A          Teachers (for  SEP
Studies                                                    for science                 science study)
study)
Project        SEP          CONAFE          Consultants    SEES          N/A           Municil alities Education
Promotion                                                                                            Authorities.
Students &
.________                                Parents
Teacher Incentives            SEP         CONAFE           DGPPP,         SEES          N/A          School         Teachers
DGPRL &                                   Councils
DGEP
improvement   Supervision     SEP         CONAFE &         N/A            SEEs &        N/A          N/A            Supervisors
of Supervision  Offices                   CAPPCE                          State-level
System                                                                    CAPFCE
[ravel         SEP          CONAFE          N/A            SEEs          N/A           N/A           Supervisors
.___________  lIncentives 
Books & Materials Distribution  SEP &     CAPFCE &         CONALITEG   State-level    N/A             N/A           Teachers &
NAFIN       CONAFE          & Consultants  CAPFCE &                                  Students
_____ ____ SEEs          _  _  _ _  __                  _ _  _  _
Project Administraion         CONAFE   PCU                 Consultants    SPCUs         Consultants   N/A           Project
Note: Implementation at the central (CONAFE) and state (SEEs) levels will be carried out/coordinated by the PCU and SPCUs, respectively.
.t
0  
I!
illYff



ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
| &UE Oeaeal Director
Techical Adisor,.
Comitteel
PCU General
fI Dordinator
r I -. I .~~~~~~b                                                  II _ .  .t tIo
Traiming          Di4aci Material          Inceetives            Infrastructawe                               sdiistrais
-o              4 1  d  sti,           4  amd u-Ii 
Mz
2Xt1  4446Xa=:1                             '   '''I                      .              2-   :-1~~~~~~~~~~mo~ce~ ~ cen
~oduto                             'rcim   Ic4nt                                 . AB3
;                           it~~~~



ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF STATE PROJECr COORDINATION UNITS
|   E  Geseral Director
Technical  Advisory  1..............................................................
Cnittee                                                          E
l                    5P~~~~~W Oeiteral Director
TechniSc Su1   rt
Taierits! as                 Didactic hterials                 I rastructure                  Uo4stration
General Prizary                Inceatives                      Didactic Materials              Og ztion                        AMo1atingI
I|disenoDs  im y               superisio                       Readitg Orners                  Procure|Prt Pocuesentc 
CAi



-121-                       ANNEX 16
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
& FLOW OF FUNDS
0    1~~~~~~
WI!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aW
X 1   ~~~~a
dg           if>ut



-122-                                 ANNEX 16
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
& FLOW OF FUNDS
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PCU AND SPCUS
General Principles
1.    The organization of the PCU under PAREB draws from the experience accumulated
by the PCU of PARE, particularly highlighting the need for: (a) a more horizontal
organizational structure that promotes empowerment and initiative at the lower levels; (b)
strong emphasis on analytical and qualitative measures as opposed to the meeting of rigid
preset targets; (c) a higher role for SPCUs given the decentralization and greater autonomy
of SEEs; (d) an improved monitoring and evaluation system with easily appreciable benefits,
which would prompt usage on a regular basis; and (e) institutional strengthening, particularly
of financial functions (e.g., procurement, accounding, cost control).
2.    The proposed organizational struture rests on two general principles: (a) small,
dynamic units composed of experienced individuals of high quality; and (b) an integration of
central- and state-level activities along technical and administrative functions, which would
facilitate both a more integrated perspective and faster and more informed action. The first
principle is reflected is the number of personnel programmed at the central level: whereas
for PARE (which comprises four states) the PCU staff numbered 37, the combined PARE-
PAREB unit (which now comprises fourteen states) only requires 68. The costs savings
would be passed on to the SPCUs in the form of high salaries to attract high-quality
professionals.
3.    Specific objectives of the new structure include: (a) strengthening of policy and
strategic analysis in support of more informed decision-making; (b) raising the standard for
operational expertise and capability of all PCU and SPCU personnel; (c) developing and
implementing a project MIS to assist the PCU and SPCUs in the collection and analysis of
data; (d) consolidating and strengthening administrative and financial functions; and (e)
developing and implementing an integrated process monitoring and evaluation system to
regularly monitor project activities and results and suggest improvements therein.
Specific Terms of Reference
4.    The PCU's main duties would be to: (a) manage project resources, monitor
expenditures and arrange for audit accounts; (b) consolidate the yearly work review and plan
of project execution; (c) prepare required information for the annual and mid-term
implementation reviews; (d) liaise with state project offices and through NAFIN with the
Bank; (e) manage contracts for technical assistance and studies; and (f) monitor project
objectives, goals, processes, and deadlines. The PCU would also handle, through CONAFE
administrative and technical departments and in collaboration with the SEEs, planning for
procurement of buildings, equipment and materials, including preparation of itemized lists
with specification and tender documents, tender procedures, supervision, quality control and
distribution.



- 123 -                                ANNEX 16
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
& FLOW OF FUNDS
5.    SPCUs would be responsible for coordinating activities of all participating agencies
and monitoring project implementation at the state level, with special emphasis on: (a)
implementation of civil works programs including contracting; (b) timely acquisition and
distribution of educational materials; (c) implementation and monitoring of the teacher
incentives program; and (d) proper functioning of the supervision system. The SPCU
Coordinator should come from the respective SEE to enhance state ownership and
participation in the project; wherever possible, officials previously involved in the
preparation of the project would be retained in the SPCU so that their experience can be
easily transferred. At the operational level, select state employees would be transferred to
the SPCUs but would remain on the state payroll.



-124-                                         ANNEX 17
PROJECT COSTS
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(US$ muillion)
Local   Foreign    Total     % FE   %9,soBase
Human Resources Development                       99.8      2.6    102.4       2.5%     17.7%
Education & Material Resources
Teacher & Student Materials                     85.6     85.6    171.2    50.0%       29.7%
Reading Comners                                 4.8       2.1       6.9    30.4%       1.2%
Indigenous Education Materials                   3.9      2.0       5.9    33.9%       1.0%
Infrastructure Improvement                      93.8     24.7    118.5    20.8%      20.5%
Institutional Strengthening                                .
Management Capacity                             11.6      5.3      16.9    31.4%       2.9%
Teacher Incentives                              97.5      0.0      97.5      0.0%     16.9%
Supervision System Improvement                  16.6      3.4      20.0    17.0%       3.5%
Distribution System                              7.6      2.8      10.4    26.9%       1.8%
Project Administration                          26.6      1.0      27.6      3.6%     4.8%
Base Costs                                       447.8    129.5    577.3    22.4%    100.0%
Physical Contingencies                          5.0       1.4       6.4    21.9%       1.1%
Price Contingencies                             26.3      6.7      33.0    20.3%       5.7%
Total Project Costs                              479.1     137.6    616.7    22.3%    106.8%
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



SUMMARY ACCOUN1n BY PROJECT COMPONENT (US$ million)
_______________________ [HR    Educ.  Reading Indg   InaSt.  Mgmt. Teacher  Supn.  Distr.  Admin-             Phys.   Phys.   Price   Price
Devel.I Mat'ls. ComersMalsj Improy. Cpcty.  Incent. System  Systemj istration  Total  Cont %  Cont. [Cont. %   Cont. 
INVESTMENT COSTS1
Civil Works-1-                                                                                                                       --
Classrooms & Schools        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0   95.1        0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0   95.1 1 5.0    14.8    6.7   20.0
Warehouses & Spn Ofcs       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0 I 0.0        0.0    0.0   10.3        7.6    0.0    17.9 1 5.0        2.8     6.8     3.8
Equipment & Furniture         0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     9.3    0.0    0.0         1.2     0.6     0.9   12.1      5.0     1.9    5.9      2.2
Vehicles                      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0 I 0.0         0.0    0.0      1.2     1.3    0.3      2.8     5.0     0.4     6.1     0.5
Didactic Materials            0.0   70.7    6.9    4.1        0.0    0.3      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   82.1      0.0     0.0     3.8     9.8
Training                      0.0     0. 0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0
Teacher & Admn Trainitng  99.1      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0   99.1    0.0       0.0     5.4   16.7
Manaement Training          0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     1.7    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     1.7     0.0    0.0    2.8    0.2
Training Materials          1.6    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     1.6    0.0      0.0 1 3 6       0.2
Promotion                     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0 I 0.0   10.3    0.0O    0.0         0.0     0.0   10.3    0.0       0.0     5.2    1.7
Technical Assistance          0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0  -0.0-                      --
Local Consultants           0.0     0.0    0.0      1.8    0.0      1.4    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.2      3.3     0.0     0.0     3.3    0.3
Int'l Consultants           0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     1.6    0.0
Studies                     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    3.1      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    3.1      0.0     0.0     3.8    0.4 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS        100.7   70'.7     6.9    5.9  104.4   16.9    0.0.  12.7          9.5     1.3  329.1      1.9    19.9    5.4   55.8
RECURRENT COST                  0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0I
Student Packages              0.0  100.5    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0 ~100.5     0.0      0.0     5.2   16.5
Incremental Salaries          0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   23.5   23.5 1 0.0    0.0          5.5     4.0
Teacher Incentives            0.0     0.0    0.0.   0.0       0.0     0.0   97.5      0.0     0.0     0.0   97.5 1 0.0        0.0     6.9   21.0
Support to Supervisoms        0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       6.3     0.0     0.0     6.3 1 0.0       0.0     5.8    1.2
Travel Allowances             1.7     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     1.7    0.0      0.0     5.3    0.3
Operaion & Maintenance        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Civil Works                0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    13.5    0.0       0.0    0.2       0.1     0.0   13.7    0.0       0.0     7.8    3.3
Vehicles                   0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0     0.6      0 .8    0.0     1.4    0.0      0.0     7.6    0.3
Equipment & Furniur        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.6    0.0     0.0    0.1       0.0     0.0    0.7    0.0       0.0     7.9    0.24
Odier Operating Costs         0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    2.8      2.8    0.0      0.0     5 3     0.5
7btal RECURRENT COSTS           1.7  100.5    0.0       0.0    14.0    0.0    975       7.      0.9   26.3  248.2    0.0    0.0         6.1   47.2
lbtal BASELINE COST           102.4  171.2    6.9       5.9   118.4   16.9   97.5   20.0    10.4   27.6  577.3    1.1    0.0            5.7  103.0-
Physical Continencies         0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     5.2    0.0    0.0    0.6        0.5    0.1      6.4--          --              -
Price Contingencies           5.5 1 7.9    0.1        0.3     8.1    0.8    6.7       1.3     0.7     1.5   33.0      1.2     1.3-
Tobtal PROJECr COSTS          107.9  179.2    7.1   66.2   131.7 117.6  10.            219      1.     2.2 6.7           .1     12      54 130
lhxes                         00     17.9    0.7      0.6 113.2   1.13        5.       .       .       .    4.         .       .          
Ibreign Exchange              28     89.6    2.1    2.>74             55      00      38      3.       .     3.        .       .
z
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding. 



-126-                                   ANNEX 17
PROJECT COSTS
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
(US$ million, contingencies included)
11994/95 1995/96  1996/97 1997/98 1998/991 Total
INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Workcs                    .
Classrooms & Schools             0.0    25.7    26.3    26.9    27.4   106.3
Warehouses & Spn Ofcs            0.0     4.6     5.0      5.0     5.3    19.9
Equipment & Furniture              1.8     2.8     2.9     3.0      2.9    13.4
Vehicles                           0.0     1.0     0.8     0.7      0.6     3.1
Didactic Materials                 3.9    38.8    39.6      1.7     1.3    85.3
Training
Teacher & Admn Training         22.6    13.6    22.9    21.3    23.9   104.3
Management Training              0.7     0.5     0.4     0.1      0.1     1.8
Training Materials               0.0     1.1     0.2      0.2     0.0     1.5
Promotion                          1.2     3.1     2.6      1.9     2.0    10.8
Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                1.1     0.9     1.2     0.2      0.1     3.5
Int'l Consultants                0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Studies                          0.5     0.7     2.0     0.0      0.0     3.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              31.8    92.8   103.9    61.0    63.6   353.1
RECURRENT COSTS                                       .
Student Packages                  18.1    23.8    18.9    25.0    19.9   105.7
Incremental Salaries               4.3     4.3     5.3     5.4      5.5    24.8
Teacher Incentives                 6.5    13.3    20.5    28.0    35.9   104.2
Support to Supervisors             0.6     1.5     1.5      1.5     1.6     6.7
Travel Allowances                  0.3     0.4     0.4     0.4      0.4     1.9
Operation-& Maintenance                ______
Civil Works                      0.0     1.4     2.9     4.5      6.1    14.9
Vehicles                         0.0     0.2     0.3     0.5      0.6     1.6
Equipment & Furniture            0.0     0.1     0.1     0.2      0.3     0.7
Other Operating Costs              0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.6     3.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS               30.4    45.6    50.5    66.1    70.9   263.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                 62.2   138.4   154.4   127.1   134.5   616.7
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



-127 -                                    ANNEX 17
PROJECT COSIS
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(US$ million)
LOCal   Foreipn    Total    % FE    % Total
INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                       _
Classrooms & Schools                76.1      19.0      95.1    20.0%      16.5%
Warehouses & Spn Ofcs               14.3       3.6      17.9    20.1%       3.1%
Equipment & Furniture                  8.4       3.6      12.0    30.0%       2.1%
Vehicles                               1.4        1.4      2.8    50.0%       0.5%
Didactic Materials                    42.5      39.6      82.1    48.2%      14.2%
Trainiug                         I
Teacher & Admn Training             97.2       2.0      99.2    -2.0%      17.2%
Management Trining                    1.4      0.3        1.7    17.6%      0.3%
Training Materials                   1.3       0.3        1.6    18.8%      0.3%
Promotion                              6.2       4.1       10.3    39.8%       1.8%
Technical Assistance              ______                                  _
Local Consultants                    3.3       0.0       3.3      0.0%      0.6%
Int'l Consultants                    0.0       0.0       0.0       ERR      0.0%
Studies                              2.5       0.6       3.1    1i.4.-      0.5%
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 254.6      74.6    329.2    22.7%       57.0%
RECURRENT COSTS
Student Packages                      50.2      50.2     100.4    50.0%      17.4%
Incremental Salaries                  23.4       0.0      23.4      0.0%      4.1 %
Teacher Incentives                    97.5       0.0      97.5      0.0%     16.9%
Support to Supervisors                 6.4       0.0       6.4      0.0%      1.1%
Travel Allowances                      1.4       0.3        1.7    17.6%      0.3%
Operation & Maintenance
Civil Works                         11.0       2.7      13.7    19.7%       2.4%
Vehicles                             0.7       0.7       1.4    50.0%       0.2%
Equipment & Furniture                0.5       0.2       0.7    28.6%       0.1%
Other Operating Costs                  2.2       0.6       2.8    21.4%       0.5%
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  193.3      54.7    248.0    22.1%    43.0%
Total BASELINE COSTS                   447.9     129.3    577.2    22.4%    100.0%
Physical Contingencies                 5.0       1.4       6.4    21.9%       1.1%
Price Contingencies                   26.3       6.7      33.0    20.3%       5.7%
Total PROJECT COSTS                    479.2     137.5    616.7    22.3%    106.8%
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



-128-                                   ANNEX 17
PROJECT COSTS
COMPONNENS BY YEAR
.1994/95 19S/96 1996/97 1997/981 1998/99  Total  Total
l____I        I       II    N$   US$
Huiman Resources Development    71.4   46.0   69.9   63.6   68.7  319.6  102.4
Education & Material Resources
Teacher & Student Materials   56.2  182.7  166.7   72.4   56.2  534.2  171.2
Reading Corners                11.6    5.9    4.1    0.0    0.0   21.6   6.9
Indigenous Education Materials  2.3    3.7    4.8    3.8    3.8   18.4   5.9
Infrastructure Improvement     2.5   85.4   89.7   94.1   97.8  369.5  118.4
Institutional Strengthening
Management Capacity            9.0   13.9   16.2    7.4    6.1   52.6   16.9
Teacher Incentives            20.3   40.6   60.8   81.1  101.4  304.2  97.5
Supervision System Improvement  2.0   14.0   15,5   15.5   15.3  62.3   20.0
Distribution System            0.0    7.7    8.0    8.2    8.7   32.6   10.4
Project Administration         17.8   16.1   17.4   17.4   17.4  86.1   27.6
Base Costs                     193.1  416.0  453.1  363.5  375.4  1801.1 577.3
Physical Contingencies         0.3    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9   19.9   6.4
Price Contingencies             1.2   10.6   23.3   28.4   39.5  103.0  33.0
Total Project Costs             194.6  431.5  481.3  396.8  419.8  1924.0 616.7
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



129-                                        ANNEX 18
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
WITHDRAWALS OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE LOAN
Amount of the
Category              Loan Allocated             Percent of Expenditures
(expressed in US$               to be financed
million equivalent)
I. Civil Works
CAPFCE                              32.0   50%
Community Model                     24.0   50%
2. Equipment and Furniture                  8.0   100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local
expenditures
'. Educational Books & Didactic            70.0   90%
Materials
4. Student Educational Packages            50.0   75% of expenditures to an aggregate of US$25
(non-durable goods)                            million; 50% of expenditures to an aggregate of
US$45 million; and 25% for the remainder
5. Training
Teacher Training                    95.0   100%
Management Training                   1.8   100%
Training Materials                    1.7   100%
6. Technical Assistance & Studies           6.7   100%
7. Teacher Incentives & Support            55.3   75% of expenditures to an aggregate of US$20
to Supervisors                                 million; 50% of expenditures to an aggregate of
US$50 million; and 25% for the remainder
8. incremental Operating Costs             27.5   75% of expenditures to an aggregate of US$15
(salaries, travel allowances,                  million: 50% of expenditures to an aggregate of
operation & maintenance.                       US$25 million; and 25% for the remainder
office supplies & materials)
9. Unallocated                             40.0
Total                                  412.0



-130-                                    ANNEX 18
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
ESIIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENtI
(in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal| Quarter Enig|  Disbursed      Cumulative   Dish. as %    Balance of
t     _Year                During Quarter    Amount        of Total     Loan
94      June 30, 1994         30.0            30.0           7         382.0
Sept. 30, 1994 J      11.5           41.5                     370.5
95      Dec. 31, 1994          13.5           55.0                     357.0
March 31, 1995        13.5           68.5                     343.5
June 30, 1995         13.5           82.0           20        330.0
Sept. 30, 1995        22.0          104.0                     308.0
Dec. 31, 1995         22.0          126.0                     286.0
96      March 31, 1996         22.0          148.0                     264.0
June 30, 1996         22.0          170.0           41        242.0
Sept. 30, 1997        28.0          198.0                     214.0
Dec. 31, 1997         28.0          226.0                     186.0
March 31, 1998        28.0          254.0                     158.0
June 30, 1998         28.0          282.0           68        130.0
Sept. 30, 1998        20.0          302.0                     110.0
Dec. 31, 1998         20.0          322.0                      90.0
98      March 31, 1999         20.0          342.0                      70.0
June 30, 1999         20.0          362.0           88         50.0
Sept. 30, 1999        20.0          382.0                      30.0
99      Dec. 31, 1999          20.0          402.0                      10.0
March 31, 2000        10.0          412.0        100.0          0.0
al Includes Special Account deposit of US$25.0 million and retroactive financing of up to US$6.0
million for eligible expenditures incurred on or after October 31, 1993.



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
A. PROJECT-SPECIFIC PROCESS INDICATORS
Componenti         Sub-      Activity   |          Sub-Activity            Unit  |  Year I        Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5
I Component                                                   7794-6/95              7/95-6/96196    -6/97   7197-6/98   7198-6199
Human Risources           Training of    Teachers                        particip.    57,550     29,337       57,550      57,550      57.550
Developmxent              Teachers &    Administmtors                    particip.    7,784        945                     N/A
Indigenous School Teachers      particip.    6,448       9,168       8,029        1,455       6,448
:___________ Indigenous School Administrators   particip.  1,081      220                     N/A
Educational Teaing Materials & Student  Distribute teaching materials (one-
Material    Educational Packages        time investment per school)
Resources                                 Campeche                       package-     N/A          199         200               N/A
Durango                        school                   427         428
Guanajuato                                              445         445
Jalisco                                                1,056        1,057
Michoacan                                              1,180        1,180
Puebla                                                  554         555
San Luis Potosi                                         873         874
TIbasco                                                 602         603
Veracruz                                               1,278      1280
Yucatan                                                 333         335
Distribute teaching materials (one-
time investment per 2-grade cycle;
multigrade is one cycle)
Campeche                      package-     N/A          855         855               N/A
Durango                         cycle                  2,355       2,353                             O
Guanajuato                                             2,353       2,352                             Z
Jalisco                                                3,069       3,066
Michoacan                                              5,429       5,428
Puebla                                                 2,753       2,751                             z
San Luis Potosi                                        2,258       2,256                             Cl
Tabasco                                                3,227      *3,226                              Z
Veracruz                                               5,413       5,411                                 Z
Yucatan                                          _     2,112       2,112   . _ g          __ _
>t-X
Notes: 1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillment of required fall complement (e.g., percenrage of staffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
cohlmn that they are cumulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



Component1    Sub-         Activity             SubActivity            Unit      YrYear 2                Year 3      Year4 3     Year S
Component                                                          7/94-6/95 | 7/95-6196   7I96-6/97   7 7/97-6/98   7/98-6/99
Distribute student packages
Campeche                     package    42,970      42,970      42,970      42,970      42,970
Durango                                 46,633      46,633      46,633      46,633      46,633
Guanajuato                              72,469      72,469      72,469      72,469      72,469
Jalisco                                 155,491     155,491     155,491     155,491     155,491
Michoacan                               341,971     341,971     341,971     341,971     341,971
Puebla                                  157,898     157,898     157,898     157,898     157,898
San Luis Potosi                         125,822     125,822     125,822     125,822     125,822
Tabasco                                 178,957     178,957     178,957     178,957     178,957
Veracruz                                275,706     275,706     275,706     275,706     275,706
Yucatan                                 122,766     122,766     122,766     122,766     122,766
Reading Corners (RC)       Distribute RC packages (combined)
Campeche                     package      167         414         294
Durango                                   43         1,234        236              N/A
Guanajuato                                62         1,124        654
Jalisco                                   410        2,460       1,640
Michoacan                                1,242       2,598       1,894
Puebla                                    560        806         752
San Luis Potosi                           505        1,756       1,198
Tabasco                                   520        1,354       1,000
Veracruz                                  835        1,842       1,976
Yucatan                                   292        314         698
Indigenous Texts & Materials   Design & test materials
Grades 1-2                  end dates   6/30/95
Grades 3-4                                          6/30/96
Grades 5-6                                                      6/30/97
Produce & distribute materials  nbe 
Grades 1-2                   numbr       NIA        55,045      55,045      55,045      55,045   0
Grades 3-4                      Of41234                                     41,234      41,234
Grades 5-6                   textbooks                          41282066                28 066 1
Infrastructure  Operational    Finalize Operational Manual &       Condition of                                                Z
Improvement  Manual &      handbooks for self-help         end date effectiveness
handbooks    construction & maintenance
X
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillment of required full complement (e.g., percentage of staffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
column that they are cumulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



. Component     Sub-         Activity              Sub-Activity            Unit       Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5
Component                                                              7/94-6/95    7/95-6/96    7196-6/97    7/97-6/98   7/98-6/99
Construction/  Discuss final construction/                 8/31/94      Annual    Mid-Term       Annual      Annual
Rehabilitation  rehabilitation modalities & list of   end date   10/31/94  Review   Review       Review      Review
subprojects for the coming year
Build & equip new classrooms
Campeche                       number                    39           39          39           39
Durango                        of class-    40           81          81           81           41
Guanajuato                     rooms                     76           76          76           76
Jalisco                                                  92           92          92           89
Michoacan                                                145         145          145         145
Puebla                                      75           120         120          120          39
San Luis Potosi                                          43          43           43           43
Tabasco                                     47           49          48           49
Veracruz                                    76           145         145          145          69
Yucatan                                                  37          37           37           38
Replace & equip classrooms 
Jalisco                        number       N/A          75          75           75           75
Michoacan                     of class-                  82          82           82           82
Puebla                         rooms                     11           11          11           9
San Luis Potosi                                          37          37           37           39
Tabasco                                                  47          47           47          46
Rehabilitate & equip classrooms
Campeche                       number                    69          69           69           70
Jalisco                        of class-                 60          60           60           60
Puebla                         rooms        42           84          84           84           38
Tabasco                                     35           70          70           70           35
Yucatan                       _                         120          120          120         120      O
Maintenance   Design maintenance program       end date   8/31/94                             _
Implement community maintenance   % of                            I            I
program                          schools      N/A         25%          50%         75%         100%      z
._       (cumul..)  _                      J                               _
7
Ci>
X
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillment of required full complement (e.g., percentage of staffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
columnn that they are cumulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



Component       Sub- '       Activity   |          Sub-Activity          |  Unit      Year 1       Year 2       Year 3   7  Year 4       Year 5
_________Component   ______________________1____   7/94-6/95 J7195-6/96 j7/96-6/97    7/97-6/98 j7/98-6/99
Planning &    Carry out training                courses       50           42          44      |      I          6
Policy Analysis                                                                                X 
Project MIS &  Install project MIS              end date   12/31/94               Project MIS fully operational
praoess       Design process evaluation system    end date   9/30/94
system        Implement process eval. system   start date   12/31/94        Process evaluation system fully operational
Conduct sample testing           miestone               Samnple test Test in 6/96
Conduct IEAP test                milestDne                                       Conduct ts
date
Education     Preschool Education               start/end   9/94-8/95
Studies                                          dates
Secondary Education
Assessment                     start/end   9/94-8/95
Dropout                         dates    9/94-8/95
Financial Implications                    9/94-8/95
Teacler Attitudes                                     7/95-6/96
Effective Schools                                     7/95-6/96
Environmental Education          start/end   7/94-6/95
dates
Science Education                start/end                     2/95-12/97
dates
Discuss study results & agree on
follow-up action plans w/Bank
Preschool Education           end dates     N/A      Ann. Review                                        Z
Secondary Education (5)                              Ann. Review  M-T Review                            Z
Environmental Education                                           M-T Review
Science Education                                    Ann. Review  M-T Review  Ann. Review   Ann. Rev.  Z
Project       Implement promotional campaign                 100%        100%         100%         100%        1%        C)
Promotion                                                                                                                Z
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillment of required full complement (e.g., percentage of staffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
column that they are cumulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



Component       Sub-         Activity             Sub-Activity            Unit      Year I       Year 2 |  Year 3         Year 4      Year S
Component                 J                                           7/94-6/95 | 7/95-6/96    7196-6/97   7/97 6/98   7/98-6/99
Teacher Incentives          Implement incentives program
Campeche                       number       67          134         201          268         335
Durango                          of         63          126         188          251         314
Guanajuato                    teachers      97          195         292          390         488
Jalisco                       receiving    238          476         713          951        1,189
Michoacan                     incentives   320          640         961         1,281       1,601
Puebla                                     147          293         440          586         733
San Luis Potosi                             42          84          127          169         211
Tabasco                                     74          148         221          295         369
Veracruz                                   333          665         998         1,330       1,663
Yucatan                                     28          56           84          112         140
Improvement   Supervision    Build & equip supervision offices
of Supervision  Offices       Campeche                       number                     6           5            5           5
System                        Durango                                      5            9           9           9            3
Guanajuato                                               4           5            5           4
Jalisco                                                 20           21          21          20
Michoacan                                               22           22          22          22
Puebla                                                  15           15          15           15
San Luis Potosi                                         15           15          15           15
Tabasco                                                 10           10          10           9
Veracruz                                                18           19          19           19
Yucatan                                                 11           10          10           10
Build & equip sector chiefs' offices
Campeche                      number       N/A           1           2            1           1
Durango                                                  1           2            2           1
Guanajuato                                               1           I            1           0      0
Jalisco                                                  4           4            4{          2
Michoacan                                                3           4            .           3
Puebla                                                   3           2                        2
San Luis Potosi                                          2           3            2           2
Tabasco                                                  1           2            1           1
Veracruz                                                 2           2           2            2
Yucatan                                                  I           2           2            2       - Z
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillment of required full complemert (e.g., percentage of staffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
colunm that they are cumnulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



Component       Sub-          Activity             Sub-Activity             Unit       Year 1      Year 2       Year 3  J  Year 4        Year 5
Component I|I__    7/94-6/95    7/95-6/96    7/96-6/97    7/97-6/98   7/98-6199
Travel        Grant incentives to supervisors
Incentives      Campeche                        person-       15           39          39           39           39
Durango                         years        32           68          68           68           68
Guanajuato                                   17           36          36           36           36
Jalisco                                      68          152          152          152         152
Michoacan                                    70          155          155          155         155
Puebla                                       26          57           57           57           57
San Luis Potosi                              S0          113          113          113         113
Tabasco                                      34           76          76           76           76
Veracruz                                     67          150          150          150         150
Yucatan                                      35           80          80           80           80
Grant incentives to sector chiefs
Campeche                       person-       5            10           10          10           10
Durango                         years        6            13          13           13           13
Guanajuato                                   2            5            5            5           5
Jalisco                                      17           33          33           33           33
Michoacan                                    13           30          30           30           30
Puebla                                       6            14           14          14           14
San Luis Potosi                              7            18           18          18           18
Tabasco                                      4            10           10          10           10
Veracruz                                     6            14          14           14           14
Yucatan                                      6            13           13          13           13
Books & Materials Distribution Finalize distribution and inventory   end date   8/31/94
systems for all states
Build & equip warehouses &       number
distribution systems (warehouses    of          2           30           29          29           27      :
are made up of several modules,    modules
for a total of 68 warehouses)                                                                             O
Implement distribution of materials  %        N/A         100%         100%         100%         100%   _
Project Administration       Staff PCU                                  Condition of        PCU fully staffed and TAC established
end date  effectiveness                                                 3
Staff SPCUs in states who have            Condition of                                                    Q Z
signed participation agreements  end date  effectiveness   SPCUs fully staffed and state TACs established
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillment of required full complement (e.g., percentage of staffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
colunm that they are cumulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate andcipated dates.



Componenti    Sub-           I.Aivity              Sub-Activity             Unit       Year I      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
Component                       7__  _94-6195   f7195-6196    7196-6197    7197-6198   7198 699l
Sign participation agreements             Condition of
number  effectiveness
of states  signed w/ at
(mile-  least 4 states
stone    (6/30/94)
dates)    Signed for
all states
(9/30/94)
Conduct project launch seminar              Within 2
milestone    mos. of
date   effectiveness
(8/31194)
Conduct annual reviews           end dates    N/A        10/31f95       N/A        10/31/97    10/31/98
Conduct mid-term review          milestone    N/A          N/A        10/31196
date                   _                             _                    _
3
0
z
0-
z
c:i 
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillment of required full complement (e.g., percentage of staffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
column that they are cumulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of tie project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



B. OTHER INPUTS AND QUALITY/OUTCOME PROXY INDICATORS
Indicator                          |    Unit         Year         Year 2        Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
Review and agreement w/Bank on federal and state budgetary        end dates     10/31194  |Annual         Mid-Term      Annual        Annual
allocations for the project and for primary education in general                          |Review          Review        Review       Revie
Increase in total federal education budget allocated to primary education
Nationwide                                                     increase in
Campeche                                                       allocation to       To be reviewed with the Bank during October of each year,
Durango                                                          primary                             starting in 1994
Guanajuato                                                     education in                   (Annual and Mid-Term Reviews)
Jalisco                                                         real terms
Michoacan
Puebla
San Luis Potosi
Tabasco
Veracruz
Yucatan
Increase in state education budgets allocated to primary education
Campeche                                                       increase in
Durango                                                        allocation to       To be reviewed with the Bank during October of each year,
Guanajuato                                                       primary                             starting in 1994
Jalisco                                                        education in                   (Annual and Mid-Term Reviews)
Michoacan                                                       real terms
Puebla
San Luis Potosi
Tabasco
Veracruz
Yucatan                                                                                                                                       O
Number of new teachers hired (combined project areas)                                                                                           z
Of which in multigrade schools                                   number                     To be recorded and reviewed annually              i
Of which in indigenous schools                                                                                                                I
. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
Number of new students enrolled (combined project areas)                                                                                        Q
Of which in multigrade schools                                   number                     To be recorded and reviewed annually
Of which in indigenous schools                                                                                                                   >
>
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfillsent of required full complement (e.g., percertage of saffing goals) unless specifically indicated in the unit
column that they are cumuladve (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



I                           Indicator                                Unit        Year 1        Year 2       Yar3         Year 4       Year5 l
Reduction in dropout rate (combined project areas)                % decrease
In multigrade schools                                         from 1993/94      N/A          N/A           1%           N/A          2%
In indigenous schools                                            baseline
Reduction in repetition rate (combined project areas)             % decrease
In multigrade schools                                         from 1993/94      N/A          N/A           2%           N/A          3%
In indigenous schools                                            baseline                                    _
Percentage of teachers with at least 3 years experience assigned to lst &  %      N/A          15%          25%           35%          45%
2nd grdes (combined project areas)
Thachers who stay in assigned schools (combined project areas)        %           N/A          50%           65%          75%          85%
Prcentagc of School Councils established and operational in      % of project     75%          100%         100%         100%          100%
communities receiving infrastructure improvement (combined project  communities
areas)
Usage of warehouses                                                   %           N/A          70%          75%           80%          85%
Average length of storage in warehouses                          change from      N/A         decrease     decrease     decrease     decrease
previous year                                                                     _
Wastage of books and materials in warehouses                          %           N/A          N/A          < 7%         < 5%         < 2%
0
z
z
Notes:  1. Percentages indicate degree of fulfilment of required full complement (e.g., percentage of staMng goals) unless speifically indicated in the unit
column that they are cumulative (i.e., add up to 100% over the life of the project).
2. Dates in parentheses indicate anticipated dates.



-140-                                  ANNEX 20
ANNUAL & MID-TERM REVIEWS
ANNUAL AND MID-TERM REVIEWS
1. Annual Implementation Reviews. The annual reviews would be organized by
SEP/CONAFE and the SEEs and would take place in October of each year, starting in 1995,
with the participation of SEP/CONAFE and SEEs senior staff, authorities from SHCP and
NAFIN, and Bank staff. The purpose of the annual implementation reviews would be to
evaluate project performance against implementation plans and agreed monitoring indicators;
provide management with feedback on project achievements, and issues and areas needing
improvement. Each review would include: (a) implementation of sector policies as
expressed in the Govermnent's letter of sector policies; (b) review of federal and state
budgetary allocations for public education as per the project implementation indicators; (c)
analysis of the previous year's performance (i.e., targets, budgetary allocations, functioning
of implementation arrangements, main issues, and remedial actions to overcome the
constraints); (d) review of work plan and budget for the following year; (e) modifications in
project design, if needed, to adjust to changing circumstances; and (f) state-level management
and operation of the decentralized education system, i.icluding budgetary allocations. Thus
the annual reviews would provide for on-going refinements in project strategies and plans,
consistent with the overall objectives of the project.
2. In August and October 1994, CONAFE would review with the Bank the proposal for
civil works to be carried out under the project for 1994 and 1995, respectively; this review
process would be repeated during each annual review, starting in 1995, and examine all
proposals for civil works subprojects ex-ante. Review criteria for construction and/or
rehabilitation of schools and classrooms would be included in an Operational Manual and
cover: (a) appropriate location as identified through the agreed targeting criteria; (b)
construction modality (CAPFCE or community); (c) meeting of prior requirements (i.e.,
availability of land and of teachers and corresponding budget allocations and existence of
School Councils); (d) choice of building prototype according to local needs; (e) availability of
a maintenance program; and (f) in the case of community construction, (i) ability and
willingness of the community and/or local contractors to carry out the work and (ii) readiness
of municipalities to enter into contractual obligations with SEEs and the community to
supervise the civil works. A further review criteria would ensure that the share of CAPFCE
construction subprojects falls within 50 percent of all infrastructure improvement subprojects.
For construction of warehouses, the review would confirm that state-specific distribution
systems, satisfactory to tie Bank, will be implemented in such a way as to ensure a
consistent flow of textbooks and educational materials from the new or existing warehouses
to the schools; in addition, the review will assess the states' proposals for maximizing use of
warehouse space, including options for other uses. The August 1994 review would include a
specific examination of the distribution and inventory control system to ensure that the states'
proposals have been adequately integrated to provide a consistent system for monitoring and
controlling the flow of materials.
3. The Mid-Term Review to be conducted in October, 1996 would follow the same format
as the annual implementation review meetings, but the analysis of project achievements
would be expanded with additional emphasis on the implementation of: (a) sectoral policies,
regulatory framework, and progress of decentralization; (b) results (final or preliminary) of
studies and their recommendations; (c) preliminary results of the monitoring and evaluation



-141-                                   ANNEX 20
ANNUAL & MID-TERM REVIEWS
system; and (d) workings of the Technical Advisory Committee and effectiveness of inter-
institutional cooperative arrangements. In addition, the mid-term review would result in an
agreed updated set of targets and actions for the subsequent years of project implementation.
Final terms of reference for the mid-term review would be developed and presented to the
Bank for review by March 31, 1996.



142-                                 ANNEX 21
SUPERVISION PLAN
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
1. To familiarize PCU and SPCU staff and other concerned authorities with Bank
procedures, a project launch seminar will be conducted within two months of loan
effectiveness, stressing, inter alia, the Bank's guidelines on procurement, disbursement, and
auditing requirements. A computerized instructional guide on Bank procedures, currently
being developed, will be introduced. This computerized guide will be further developed by
the PCU to include instructions on specific project components and procedures for staff use.
2. Due to the large number of project activities and areas, there will be two supervision
missions each year. The annual and mid-term reviews (Annex 20) would constitute the
main missions; this will occur in October of each year, once federal and state budget
allocations have been made. These reviews will concentrate on the managerial and
institutional aspects of the project, quantifying project progress against monitoring indicators
(Annex 20), resolving administrative bottlenecks, and setting a clear direction for project
activities in the coming year, particularly as concerns budgetary and program allocations.
Anmnal reviews will have a forward-looking character, with special attention paid to civil
works and the warehouse and book distribution systems. The mid-term review in October
1996 would be more comprehensive to include in-depth discussion of sector policies and
other institutional issues affecting the implementation of the project. Annual and mid-term
reviews will last two weeks, including field visits in the participating states for a better
assessment of project progress.
3. Whereas the annual and mid-term reviews will have a strong management and
administrative focus, supervision missions scheduled for April of each year, starting in 1995,
would be geared to assess the pedagogical and community participation elements of the
project. Field visits will be scheduled to assess, inter alia: (a) the benefits of the project's
training programs for both teachers and administrators; (b) the quality and use of textbooks
and educational materials (including Reading Corners and textbooks designed for indigenous
schools); (c) the quality of infrastructure subprojects (including maintenance); (d) the degree
of School Council and community participation; (e) the extent to which parents and
influential community members are aware of the project and are contributing thereto; (f) the
effectiveness of the incentives programs; and (g) the expanded role of supervisors and the
effectiveness of the pedagogical network. Implementation strategies to improve project
performance would be discussed with SPCU staff and local officials. Due to the large
number of project areas involved, the project would also employ local consultants to perform
periodic field visits and provide technical assistance to SPCUs, municipalities, School
Councils and others as required. Supervision reports from field visits will be discussed
during the annual and mid-term reviews.
4. The mid-term review in October 1996 will provide an opportunity to update an agreed
set of targets and activities in fution of the experience gathered since project start-up. It is
expected that by this time, the project MIS and process evaluation systems will have
provided valuable observations on project performance as well as recommendations on where
improvements might be sought. At that time, a new supervision strategy may also be
devised and implemented as required.



- 143 -                                       ANNEX 21
SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision Schedule
(Headquarters Staff & International Consultants)
mt               V1994                     199      _               1996            197-19997
April            NIA            Task Manager       I SW Task Manager        I SW
Educators (2)      2 SW  Educators (2)      2 SW
-   o_ect lAunch         Archiect           I SW Architect           I SW
August Task Manager        1 SW  Implementation Spec. 1 SW
Educator           I SW                                                       To be
Procurement Spec.   I SW                                                   Determined
Disbursement Spec.  I SW
Implementation Spec. I SW
task Manager       1 SW First Annual Review       Mid-Tnrm Review
October Educator           I SW Task Manager        2 SW Task Manager        2 SW
Education Econ.    I SW Education Econ.     2 SW Education Econ.     2 SW
Architect          I SW  Educators (2)      4 SW Educators (2)       4 SW
Financial Anal.    1 SW Procurement Spec.   2 SW Architect           2 SW
Financial Anal.    2 SW Procurement Spec.   2 SW
Implementation Spec. 2 SW Financial Anal.   2 SW
l___________________ Implementation Spec. 2 SW
Total           1OSW                     19SW                     20 SW
SW  __        ____ 1__



-144 -                                         ANNEX 22
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Task Name               ~~~~~1994     1995    1996   11997          1998   I 999
Task Name              OW31_ _4_ 10     0 31C~IQZQ3Ql4QlU2ZQ3Q4'CllZ3Q QiO2
A. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTU    K
Develop selection criteria                                                               I
Implement trainin program
B. EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL RESOURCES 
B.1. Purchase & distribute teachina materials
8.1. Purchase & distributestudent packages
8.2. Reading Corners (RC) 
Select books for RC                                                                 iI
Purchase & distribute RC books                            --
Develop special RC books 
Produce/purchase & distribute special RtC booksT
8.3. Indigenous Books & Materials**    U
Develop Ind. material/Grades 1 & 2j
Test ind. materials/Grades; 1 & 2I
Produce & distribute In. materials/Grades I & 2
Develop ind. material/Grades 3 & 4 
Test ind. materials/Grades 3 & 4                                                  I    I
Produce & distribute ind. materials/Grades 3 & 4                                    t 
Develop ind. material/Grades 5 & 6i                                                 II
Test ind. materials/Grades 5 &6 
Produce & distribute ind. materials/Grades 5 & 6II    I                                Ii~
5.4. infrastructure Improvements                              lEU       lm    i miin ii Ei
Develop school prototypes                             I     I                         
Develop 0perational Manual &handbooks                 I     I                     11
Finalize 0perational Manual & Handbooks               j    I                  i i l!            L
Formn School Councils-
Review of school construction/rehabilitation for 1994                                     FI
Review of school construction/rehabilitation for 1995 
Constructionlrehabilitation
Establish maintenance programs
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
C.1. Management Capacity
C.1 .(a) Management Training
Develop training programI   ItI
Devetop selection crieriaI
Conduct training                                         .                         _I___
C. 1.(b) Project MIS
Conduict information needs study
Emnplement MIS 
MIS fully operationalj                                                            j
C.l db) Monitoring & Evaluation (ME) System            UUU*J  m
Develop proposal for M&E system 
Establish M&E system
M&E system fully operational                                                    I    I
Implement M&E system
C.1 .(c) Education Studies
Finalize consultant proposals 
Condc pecolstudy                                                                II
Review of results & recommendations 
Conduct secondary education studies                               liii
As-sessment of current state                                               I     i
Review of results &recommendations                                      I
Socioeconomic analysis of dropouts
Review of results & recommendations                     II                       I
Financial implications of 9-year program                                      I 
Review of results & recommendations 
Working conditions of teachers & supevsr                                                
Review of results &recommendations                      I    I
Effective schoolsI 



- 145 -                                       ANNEX 22
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Effective schools
Review of results & recommendations 
Conduct environmental education study
Review of results & recommendations
Review of results & recommendations- 
C.1 Ad) Project PromotionEM                                                      UK
Design promotional program
Conduct promoltion
C.2. Teacher Incentives                           U
Identify incentives schools
Grant incentives
C.3. Improvement of Supervision
C.3.f a) Redefine Supervisors! Role
C.3.(b) Supervision Offices                            m     E    Un         U    E    E    E *UU
Review supervision offices construction for 1994   A
Review supervision offices construction for 1995    A
Build & equip superv4sion offices                                      1-T
C.3.(c) Grant Travel Incentives
C.3.f d) Purchase Vehicles
C.4. Books & Materials Distribution System 
Determine warehouse locations
Review warehouse construction for 1994             A
Review warehouse construction for 1995               A
Build & equifp warehouses
Purchase vehicles
C.5. Project Adminirstration                      U
Establish central PCU
Finalize participaton agreements
Have participation agreements signed In 4 states
Establish state SPCUs in participating states
Meet conditions of effectiveness
Review of infrastructure & distributon SystemsA
Annual Review Year 1I
Mid-Ternm ReviewA
Annual Review Year 3A
Annual Review Year 4                                                                            A
Milestone  A    Summary



-146 -                                 ANNEX 23
LIST OF DOCUMENTS
IN PROJECT FILE
LIST OF DOCUMENS IN PROJECT FILE
A. Studies and Reports on the Project
Arango, M., 1993. Estudio Diagn6stico Sobre Participacion Social en Escuelas Pimarias.
Perspectivas para el Programa PAREB, CONAFE-World Bank, Mexico.
Behrnan, Jere R., 1990. The Action of Human Resources and Poverty on One Another,
The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Estados Unidos Mexicanos, 1992. Acuerdo Nacional piara la Modernizacion de la Educaci6n
Bdsica. Mexico, May 18, 1992.
Ezpeleta, Justa, 1993. Pro grama para Abatir el Rezago Educativo. Evaluaci6n Cualitativa
del Impacto. Centro de Investigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Politecnico
Nacional, Mexico City.
Gardu8lo, Le6n, 1993. Reporte de Evaluaci6n del Programa Para Abatir el Rezago
Educativo - Estado de Guerrero, CONAFE-World Bank, (Vols. 1 & 2), Mexico.
Gonzalez, Guillermo, 1993. Diagn6stico Sobre Refetici6n y Deserci6n. Estudio de Caso en
Seis Escuelas de Oaxaca, CONAFE-World Bank, Mexico.
Hicks, E., 1993. Estudio Evaluativo Sobre Actualizaci6n de Maestros e Incentivos al
Docente del Programa Para Abatir el Rezago Educativo. PARE, CONAFE-World Bank,
Mexico.
Molina, Z., 1993. Andlisis de la Situaci6n Actual del Desarrollo del Pogranma Para Abatir
el Rezago Educativo (PARE) en el Estado de Oaxaca, CONAFE-World Bank, Mexico.
Myers, R. G., 1993. School ftgetition and Dropout. Case Studies of iWo Rural Schools in
the State of Oaxaca. Mexico. Report prepared for the World Bank.
Pscharopoulos, G. and Ng. Y., 1992. Earnings and Education in Latin America. Assessg
Priorities for School Investment. World Bank Research Working Paper 1056.
Rumbaitis, M. and F. Rojas, 1993. Estudio Diagnostico Sobre Repeticion y Desercion en
Escuelas Marginadas de Oaxaca CONAFE-World Bank.
Schiefelbein, E., 1991. Output of the SMMG Model with Data from the GDPPB.
UNESCO-OREALC, Siri System, Santiago, Chile, June 1991.
SEP, 1993. La General de Educaci6n, SEP, Diaio Oficial de la Federaci6n, Distrfito
Federal, Mexico, July 13, 1993.
SEP, 1993. Sistematizacion de a Evaluacion Educativa para Elevar la Calidad de la
Educaci6n en los Estados GSECED) (Propuesta). DGEIR.
SEP, 1993. Propuesta de Investigaci6n - Meaoramiento v Desarrollo de la Educaci6n
Secundaria.
SEP, 1993. Investigaci6n. Atenci6n a la Demanda de Educacion Preescolar v Secundaria
£1971-72. 1981-82 a 1992-93



- 147 -                                ANNEX 23
LIST OF DOCUMENTS
IN PROJECT FILE
SEP, 1992. Compendio Estadistico del Gasto Educaivo. 199. DGPPP.
SEP, 1992. Compendio Estadistico por Entidad Federativa. 1992. DGPPP.
SEP, 1992. Estadistica Bdsica del Sistema Educativo Nacional. Inicio de Cursos 1991-1992.
DGPPP.
SEP, 1990. ftntuario de Estadistica Educativa-Indiena DGEI.
SEP, 1989. PraErama para la Modernizaci6n Educativa 1989-1994. V 1. Mexico, Poder
Ejecutivo Federal.
B. General Studies and Reports
Carison, S., 1991. Transforming the ViCiOUS Circle: The Costs and Savings of School
Inefficiency in Mexico - A View from LATHR, No. 8, The World Bank.
INEGI, 1992. Censo de Poblaci6n de 1990, Mexico.
Levy, S., 1991. Poverty Alleviation in Mexico, World Bank SWP No. 679, 1991.
Palafox, J.C., J. Prawda, and E. Velez, 1992. Primary School Quality in Mexico - A View
from LATHR, No. 33, The World Bank.
World Bank, 1992. Social Indicators of Development, 1991-92.
World Bank, 1991. Basic Education in Mexico: Trends. Issues and Policy
Reconmmendations. Report No. 8930-ME, 1991.
World Bank, 1991. Mexico in Transition: Towards a New Role for the Public Sector.
Report No. 8770-ME, 1991.
World Bank, 1993. World Development Report - 1993.
UNESCO, 1991. World Population Projections - 1992-93.
C. Other Documents
Govermnent of Mexico - Letter of Sector Policies, March 4, 1994.
CONAFE, 1993. Centro de Trabajo con Incentivo a Docentes - Ciclo Escolar 1994-1995,
Programa para Abatir el Rezago in Educaci6n Bdsica, Noviemfbre 30, 1993.



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                                         MEXICO
SECOND PRIMARY
t;  ,,,,,,,,,,p,   -.s  r   ,8,<                                                                                    EDUCATION  PROJECT
h. Pt&                                                                       AL ,:COMPONETS
94TfUflONt SW~TI0HENHG COMPOE ONL
J11,                                                          (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRS PMARAY EDUCATION FOJSCa STATEUI
''- ''                                                                                                   SE '  A!CAPifALZ
-   t   ^ tm@R   -+ b      O     ,                                                                           0   MPA ACSMS OR TOWNS
~~~~~~~~\                                                                             ± ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR*NOMAIRPOUS
'''-                                              0TM-.&,    S I '                                                       14\ ,  MIN IfO.IONAI. BO(J°   ARN
Mw5 saq                                    GUlf    of    M4e x,-  - 
X          -~~ ~~o L       ip,is-'              '  "      -
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d Va.  ,. .
OCEAN
2V ~  ~       ~      ~      vcf>                   X            -         S°> 
2r                   Prb  Lbb$<w   '    a>Q"m) k    +                                                                f        r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c~.w 
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~. '                                               . or   C-npeche  
_~~~~~~~O.  ,)td                                        CA -                         Chw e  -r  -
)~~~~~~                                                                 ~        ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B~   J          ELIZE
iqe  2q0   ago   A"   UQWOMEIS                                                                                                                   
flu bow.dgvfe..                                                                                  /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUATEMALA  i
' jpdg~.s,t.pxe  s\* I.  .ndemm..9HN
-  110n'       '                                      1t                                              X             v A;  DECEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE



