Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24348
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37220; SCL-3722A; SCPD-3722S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$412.0 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
05/03/2002
Human Development Sector Management Group
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 29, 2002)
Currency Unit = New Peso (M$)
M$ 1.0 = US$ 0.109
US$ 1.0 = M$ 9.207
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGE           School-Based Management Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Gesti6n Escolar)
APL           Adaptable Program Loan
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CONAFE        SEP's National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Educativo)
CONAPO        National Population Council (Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n)
DGEI          SEP's General Directorate for Indigenous Education (Direcci6n General de Educaci6n
Indigena)
IE           Initial Education
IEU           State level Initial Education Unit
ICB           fnternational Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
NAFIN         National Financing Agency (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PARE          Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educativo) (Ln. 3407-ME,
1991)
PAREB         Second Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Basica)
PAREIB        Basic Education Development Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n
Inicial y Basica)
PCU           Project Coordinating Unit at the Federal level in CONAFE
PME           Education Modernization Program (Programa para la Modernizaci6n Educativa,
1989- 1994)
PRODEI        Initial Education Project (Proyecto para el Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Inicial) (Ln.
3519-ME, 1992)
SEP           Federal Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica)
SEPEs         State-Level Secretariats of Education (Secretarias de Educaci6n de los Estados)
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:  Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Eduardo Velez Bustillo



MEXICO
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings.                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objectye and Design, and of Qualit'y at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               13
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bankwand Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                          19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                36
Annex 5. Ratings tor Achievement-of Objectives/Outputs of Components                38
Annex 6. Ratings of Baik and Borrower Performance                                   39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               40






Project ID: P007725                                     Project Name: MX: PRIMARY EDUC.I I
Team Leader: Eduardo Velez Bustillo                     TL Unit: LCCIC
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MX: PRIMARY EDUC.II                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-37220;
SCL-3722A;
SCPD-3722S
Country/Department: MEXICO                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           RevisedlActual
PCD:   02/15/93                              Effective: 09/12/94          09/30/94
Appraisal:  10/13/93                                MTR: 10/31/96             02/23/98
Approval:  03/31/94                               Closing: 12/31/99           12/31/2001
Borrowser/lmplementing Agency: Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)/SEP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                       Edilberto L. Segura
Sector Manager:      Ana-Maria Arriagada                      Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:  Eduardo Velez Bustillo                   Antonio Gomes Pereira
ICR Primary Author:  Anna Sant'Anna and Nydia
Maraviglia
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The proposed project is the second phase of a three-phase program supported by an Adaptable Program
Loan approved by the Board on June 4, 1998. The purpose of the APL is to support implementation of the
Government's compensatory education program, as outlined in National Education Program (PNE) of the
current and former Administrations (Education Development Program 1995-2000 -- "Programa de
Desarrollo Educativo - 1995-2000" and National Education Program 2001-2006 -- "Programa Nacional
de Educacion 2001-2006"). The PNE intends to raise the level and quality of schooling in Mexico,
bringing the country's education indicators substantially closer to other OECD countries. The
compensatory programs are implemented through CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Edutcativo),
which targets under-served communities. These communities tend to be: rural, poor, indigenous, and
marginalized urban areas. Phase I of the APL, supported by a US$115.0 million loan (Ln. 4333-ME),
closed on December 31, 2001, after one six month extension.
The project aimed at improving education equity by focusing on the poorest and most educationally
backward primary schools in ten states (Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Puebla,
San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz y YucatAn) by closing the gap between the poorest performing primary
schools and the Mexican national average with respect to school access, permanence and promotion,
reflected in dropout and repetition rates and student's test scores. The project also intended to reinforce
management capacity of the public primary education sector in all project states, including the additional
states of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero and Hidalgo that had been already assisted by the first Primary
Education Project (PARE - Loan 3407-ME). The 14 states and the schools to be supported by the project
in each state were selected on the basis of the CONAPO (National Population Council) poverty index,
education efficiency indicators, and the incidence of indigenous primary schools. The project expands and
complements the compensatory education activities which were initiated in Mexico in 1992 with PARE by
supporting the national policy to decentralize basic education to the states and by providing, in an
integrated way, the educational inputs that would most impact on student access and pernanence in school,
and on their learning achievements.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Two additional objectives were included in the project once it was restructured in 1997. First, social
participation to foster co-responsibility for education among parents and community members. And
second, the expansion and improvement of the Mexican non-formal Initial Education Program targeted to
poor children from birth to 4 years of age.
3.3 Original Components:
At appraisal in 1994, the total project cost was estimated at US$616.7 million; this cost was to be financed
with a Bank loan of US$412.0 million and a Government contribution of US$204.7 million. The project
covered approximately 13,858 primary schools (about 38 percent of all primary schools in ten states) and
about 1.5 million school children. The three original project components are described below.
Component A. Human Resources Development (US$107.9 million equivalent or 18 percent of total
costs including contingencies) provided in-service training to upgrade the skills of primary school teachers,
principals and supervisors, emphasizing the role of supervisors in providing pedagogical assistance to
teachers, with particular emphasis on areas of expertise not covered by regular teacher training programs,
such as multi-grade and bilingual teaching techniques deemed critical to teaching under the special
circumstances of project schools.
Component B. Educational Material Resources (US$ 324.2 million equivalent or 52 percent of total
-2 -



costs including contingencies) comprised provision of: (a) educational materials for both teachers and
students' supplies; (b) books and reference books for classroom libraries (Reading Corners) and promotion
of their use; (c) production and distribution of Indigenous textbooks and didactic materials for indigenous
schools, including teaching guides in 17 indigenous languages for the first six grades; and (d) rehabilitation,
replacement or construction of urgently needed educational facilities to replace inadequate schools and meet
new demand.
Component C. Institutional Strengthening (US$184.5 million equivalent or 30 percent of total project
costs with contingencies) was designed to strengthen sector management capacity at central and state levels
to improve de delivery of educational services under the newly decentralized basic education system.
Support was provided for: (a) strengthening management capacity at national and state levels
through support for: (i) training for the Federal Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n
Ptiblica - SEP), the National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de
Fomento Educativo -CONAFE) and managerial staff at the State-Level Secretariats of Education
(Secretarias de Educaci6n de los Estados - SEPEs); training focused on quality and efficiency,
policy analysis and sector perfornance assessment; (ii) development of CONAFE's capacity to
monitor, process and evaluate information; (iii) education studies to prepare future investments;
and (v) development of a strategy to disseminate infornation about project activities and benefits,
directed to decision-makers, officials, teachers, and parents. (iv) provision of financial incentives for
teachers to work in remote, indigenous, and hardship areas; (v) improvements to the supervision system;
and (d) strengthening the distribution system for books and educational materials.
3.4 Revised Comnponents:
As a result of the sharp devaluation of the Mexican peso in 1994-95 the project costs in dollar terms were
reduced to about half the original estimnate, and in local currency resources relatively increased, allowing
for the adjustment of project targets upwards. Accordingly, the Government requested financial
adjustments to several of its Bank loans. In the case of loan 3722-ME which supported the Second
Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educaci6n en Educaci6n Bdsica - PAREB),
a partial cancellation of US$40.0 million was approved in July 1995. To optimize the use of resources and
improve administrative efficiency in the education sector, the government further requested a merge of two
Bank-supported education projects: the PAREB and the 1992 Initial Education Project (Proyecto para el
Desarrollo de la Educacion Inicial - PRODEI) supported by loan 3518-ME. Project restructuring
involved other adjustments as well, made of the basis of lessons learned during the first few years of
implementation. These adjustments covered: (a) improved targeting, (b) better administrative coordination
and increased decentralization of functions to the states; (c) flexible action plans to better respond to local
state needs; (d) more emphasis on multi-grade pedagogic techniques and promoting student participation in
the teacher training program; and (e) cancellation of three studies that proved inopportune. In May 1997,
the Board approved the project restructuring amendment, thereby the two projects were consolidated and
the closing date was extended by two years to December 31, 2001. In parallel a US$51.6 million balance
of Loan 3518-ME was cancelled. The targets for the restructured project were revised and two components
were added: (i) School-Based Management aimed supporting social participation through the organization
and operation of school councils and parent's associations; and (ii) Initial Education aimed at improving
child rearing practices among poor parents of small children in rural areas, expanding the original PRODEI
targets. The total cost of the modified project was estimated at US$560.0 million, 66 percent of which to
be financed with a Bank Loan of $372.0 million and 34 percent by a govemment contribution of US$198.0
million equivalent.
-3 -



Component D. School-Based Management (Programa de Apoyo para la Gesti4n Escolar - AGEs).
The restructured project supported community participation in the management of primary schools, through
the creation, training and legal registration of school councils, parents' associations and civic associations
to assist the project schools with preventive maintenance of school buildings and furniture, monitoring the
payment of performance incentives to teachers, and the procurement of complementary educational
materials for the project schools.
Component E. Initial Education included: (a) Human Resources Development to support the training
of all personnel involved in the management and delivery of initial education training to parents of small
children; (b) Educational Materials Development to improve the quality of printed instructional materials
(parents' guidebook, operating handbooks, illustrated printed materials), development of a series of
educational games and videos, and production of promotional and educational radio programs; and (c)
Institutional Strengthening to support the organization of State-level Initial Education Units (IEUs),
through training emphasizing planning, management, information, evaluation, and supervision, and
upgrading staff competence to operate an expanded non-formal, rural [E program, and promote the
organization of Pro-Childhood Committees (Comites Pro-Niniez) at local and state levels. This component
also supported cooperation with other community-oriented services such as health and nutrition.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The project objectives were fully consistent with Government policy priorities and with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The project was an important instrument in achieving the May
13, 1994 CAS goals of revival of growth, poverty reduction and human resources development,
representing the main element of the human resources development strategy. Moreover, by improving
access and quality of education for the poorest students and strengthening the roles and capacities of
municipal and state authorities, project interventions were key to the CAS's focus on attacking poverty at
its roots.
The Bank's strategy in the education sector was to play a catalytic role in increasing investments on basic
education, thereby helping build human capital, thus removing a serious constraint to growth. By targeting
the most disadvantaged states and the poorest communities within each state, the project would contribute
to a more equitable distribution of educational and economic opportunities. The project also fit in the
overall government policy framework conceived as part of the Education Modernization Program (PME),
by supporting its central objectives, namely to: (a) decentralize the system; (b) improve the quality of
education; (c) raise the level of schooling throughout the population; and (d) strengthen community
participation. The project's objectives were clearly well aligned with these priorities. Lessons from previous
Bank education projects were well incorporated into the project design. An experienced Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) already in place at CONAFE, was further strengthened during project
preparation. The main risk identified was the complexity of the institutional arrangements, which involved
a large number of entities operating in a still-evolving decentralization process. This unavoidable risk was
addressed through provision for training and technical assistance focused on the state and municipal levels.
Shortcomings at entry included the lack of an economic analysis, no explicit discussion of strategic or
design altematives, and less than sufficient project outcome indicators. Careful consideration of the
expected outcomes relative to project cost might have revealed some sensitive points that could have
deserved special attention in monitoring the project. For example, the indicators chosen were highly detailed
and more than adequate to monitor implementation progress but were not sufficient to track progress
toward improved student learning achievement. Similarly, a discussion of alternatives considered in
arriving at the final design could have helped identify key indicators to monitor specific activities whose
- 4 -



costs and benefits could have been carefully tracked, to serve as a basis for designing future projects.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating is based on the performance of the project with respect to the objectives of
improving efficiency and quality of basic education, improving child rearing practices in poor
communities, increasing community participation of the management of schools, and strengthening
the institutional capacity to better deliver basic education services at central and state levels.
Efficiency. The key objective of improving the efficiency of public primary education in the project
states was achieved, as measured by improvements in completion, dropout and repetition rates for
primary education. The following table shows the progress made in these variables in the states that
took part in the restructured project, compared to the trend for the schools in the same states that
were not covered by the project, and the national average.
Table 1. Efficien  Trends (1994-2001)
Coverage      eCorntlerion Rates(%)  Dropout Rates (%)    Repetition Rates (%0
.____________ ,  1994-95   2000-2001   1994-95w 2000-2001 >71994-95   2000-2001
Project Schools     66.5        80.1       6.0       2.1       10.4        8.1
Non-Project         77.6        85.1       3.3       2.1        7.2        6.1
iSchoolsI
National Average    77.7        84.1       3.4       2.1        7.0        6.1
Source: CONAFE, April 2002.
The schools that benefited by the project, which were in the most disadvantaged communities in the
selected states and in the country, made considerable progress and managed to narrow the gap in
efficiency, compared with schools in the better off municipalities of the project states and with the
national average. While the gap in completion rates between project schools and the national
average was 11.2 points in 1994-1995, that gap had been reduced to 6.0 points by 2000-2001.
During the same period, dropout rates declined by 65 percent (from 6.0 to 2.1 percent), and
repetition rates were reduced by 22 percent (from 10.4 to 8.1 percent). The difference in dropout
rates between the most disadvantaged schools and the national average was eliminated (from a
difference of 2.6 to 0) and the difference in repetition rates was reduced from 3.4 to 2 points It may
be concluded that, through the impact of the project, the level of efficiency of the most
disadvantaged schools did indeed become closer to the national average.
Quality. The objective of improving the quality of basic education has also been achieved, based
on data for 4 states, which show an improvement of 19 percent in the probability of student's testing
above the median in standardized national tests in grade 6, and that the gain was even greater in
indigenous schools. National achievement test data, available at SEP, was accessible to the ICR
team, allowing a more comprehensive analysis of the impact of the project on the quality of
education. The results presented graphically in Section 10 and summarized below, clearly show a
positive impact of the compensatory education program.
The quality improvements pursued by the project aimed at narrowing the gap in test scores in
Spanish and Mathematics between project schools and the national average. Table 2 shows a
- 5 -



positive trend towards reaching this objective. Following a cohort of project students from the
second grade to the sixth grade (1996-2000), one notes a reduction in the score gap for Spanish
tests of approximately 30 percent, as score differences changed from 6.9 percent in 1996 to 4.8
percent in 2000, and a reduction in the score gap for Mathematics of 20 percent, from 3.5 percent in
1996 to 2.8 percent in 2000. The quality improvement objective is a moving target, as national
scores (although comparative low in relation to other OECD countries) show an upwards trend,
indicating that the task is yet far from completed.
Table 2. Quality Trends
Type of.School       1996.       1997   |    1998      -1999         2000'
_ _    .__ ,__    -'_ Grade 2  } 'Grade 3   Grade 4  l  Grade 5   lGrade6
Spanish Test Scores
(a) Project Schools     421.0       475.5       519.5        5 17.3      527.5
(b) Non-Project Schools  473.8      523.4       575.6        555.7       571.2
(c) National Average    452.0       504.9       554.3        540.9       553.9
Score differences (c-a)  31.0        29.4        34.8        23.6        26.4
% difference (c-a/c)     6.9         5.8         6.3          4.4         4.8
Mathematics Test Scores
(a) Project Schools     379.5       426.7       457.7        493.9       524.8
(b) Non-Project Schools  403.1      451.6       498.1        519.2       548.0
(c) National Average    393.4       442.0       481.6        509.4       538.9
Score differences (c-a)  13.9        15.3        23.9         15.5        15.1
1% difference (c-a/c)    3.5         3.5         5.0          3.0         2.8
Source: SEP/DGE, May 2002.
School-Based Management. Through the creation of school councils and parent's associations
(AGEs), the project was able to promote the effective participation of parents in the education of
their children. Parents managed well the teacher perforrnance incentive system, carried out
maintenance of school buildings and furmishings, managed public funds transparently and efficiently'
for the procurement of complementary educational materials and carried out infrastructure
improvements participating in 97 percent of all civil works financed by the project to improve
education infrastructure.
Initial Education. Improved child-rearing practices among low-income families with children
between the ages of 0-4 years was achieved through the extension of CONAFE's Initial Education
Program, benefiting approximately 1.8 million poor mral children. The impact of this program in
improving children's readiness for learning when they reach preschool and primary school has not
yet been evaluated. A baseline study is currently being done in the context of the second phase of
the Basic Education Development Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educacion Inicial y
Baisica - PAREIB-II). More details about the initial education program are discussed in the Initial
Education Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR) dated October 30, 1977 (Report No.
17192).
Institutional Strengthening. The project achieved its objective of developing the managerial
capacity of education agencies at central and state levels, commensurate with their newly acquired
responsibility for operating a decentralized basic education system. Notably, the SEPEs have
significantly improved their capacity to plan and deliver basic education services and CONAFE has
established well trained and competent project coordination units in all project states.
-6 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A. Human Resources Development. ICR Rating: Satisfactory (US$92.2 million or
15.9 percent of total project costs). Through this component the educational system benefited from
the application of new methods for in-service training of teachers, principals, and supervisors
working in rural, indigenous, and multi-grade schools. Delivery of training programs under the
project fully met the revised targets in both rural and indigenous schools (509,674
educators/administrators compared to the revised target of 498,384).
Evaluation of the results of teacher training done in the early stages of implementation showed that
while the quantitative objectives of the program were generally met, the training provided had
limited impact in the classroom, because the pedagogical practices used by teachers were not
substantially altered. Given this finding, the project piloted new approaches to teacher and
supervisor training and alternative methods to evaluate learning achievements of students in the
classroom. The methods found most effective were generally adopted. For teachers in indigenous
schools, training in bilingual education was emphasized. The role of the school supervisor was
transformed, becoming more pro-active in providing direct technical assistance to teachers in the
schools under their responsibility. Supervisors also worked with the teachers to help them define
their training needs and design a plan to best meet those needs. Once these changes were made,
supervisors and teachers showed a higher degree of motivation, both for the training provided and
for their own involvement in the process. In some instances, the new approach resulted in
observable changes in classroom behavior and the initiative is now being expanded to all
CONAFE-supported schools in the country through PAREIB-II. The introduction by PAREB of
in-service training in multi-grade techniques resulted an effective way to improve the teachers
ability to handle teaching in incomplete schools. Albeit these gains, improvements are still needed.
Observations on changes in teaching practices affecting quality of teaching and information on
student learning achievements are not being systematically utilized in the development of in-service
teacher training programs. Such assessments, planned under PAREIB second and third phases, are
key in deterrnining the actual and potential value of project interventions.
Component B: Educational Material Resources. ICR Rating: Satisfactory (US$194.4 million or 33.6
percent of total project cots). This component provided basic educational inputs to raise the standards of
project schools to acceptable teaching and learning conditions.The specific inputs provided are described
below.
B.1 Teaching Materials and Student Packages. The project took place in poor rural and
indigenous communities where families can hardly afford to buy educational supplies for their
children. To address this problem, the project provided each student with a package of supplies at
the beginning of the school year. The packages contained different materials, depending on the
grades. Between 1994 and 2001, the number of student packages distributed reached 20.6 million,
surpassing the revised target (11.6 million) by 77.6 percent. Schools in these areas also lack basic
supplies, thus the project provided 31,236 school materials packages containing maps, charts,
posters and other items, exceeding by one third the revised target of 24,507 school packages.
School with access to electricity were also to receive basic audiovisual equipment. Such equipment
was not provided however, because sufficient resources were not available to train school staff in
operating and maintaining the equipment, instead funds were used to procure more student and
school supplies. A total of 157,408 classroom packages of educational materials were planned but
-7-



proved in practice not to be efficient and their supply was discontinued after delivery of the first
18,889 packages. The main drawback of this sub-component was the untimely distribution of
materials to the schools and the students. Even towards the end of the project correct timing was not
achieved largely due to procurement processing delays.
B.2 Reading Corners (Rincones de lectura). The project supported the production and distribution
of library books to encourage reading and increase reading competence of the students. Due to the
success of this activity, it was institutionalized by SEP and expanded to all primary schools with
government funds as of 1998. In the early project implementation period, the project financed
30,814 reading corners packages, reaching 93 percent of the revised target.
B.3 Indigenous textbooks and materials. This sub-component was intended to address the special
needs of indigenous students and teachers through design, production and distribution of textbooks,
guides and manuals in indigenous languages, and Spanish as a second language. The project
financed the development of materials in 16 languages used in the 13 states that have indigenous
population (excluding. Guanajuato) and for other 5 languages used elsewhere. It also supported the
creation of groups specializing in the respective languages which developed a methodology to
involve students, teachers and parents in the design of textbooks and in the adaptation of Indigenous
language materials to local dialects. In this manner, relevant cultural values were taken into
account in writing and illustrating the textbooks. The project financed the design, printing and
distribution of 56,500 indigenous textbooks for the first two grades of the primary level, out of a
revised target of 966,623. Indigenous textbooks fell short of the goal of covering all six grades of
primary education because after 1998 the General Directorate of Indigenous education - Direccion
General de Educacion Indigena (DGEI) absorbed the activity under its own budget, showing a
high level of commitment for indigenous education on an ongoing basis.
B.4 Improvement of Physical Infrastructure. This component aimed to create a better and
healthier atmosphere for students and teachers by providing the basic physical conditions for
educational activity. It consisted of construction, rehabilitation, and furnishing of classrooms and
annexes (bathrooms and latrines) in the project schools. Two innovative features distinguish this
sub-component. First, special effort was made to involve the community and the municipalities in
the actual implementation, through specific contracts for managing construction and providing
labor. Second, local communities, municipalities and states were directly responsible for planning
the infrastructure improvements, with CONAFE simply consolidating local plans into the national
program, thus ensuring the pertinence of the planned investments. Construction guidelines were
used to ensure that local materials would be used where available and basic environmental
safeguards would be respected. This approach fulfilled the dual purpose of improving the school
buildings and giving communities a sense of ownership of their schools. It also allowed for the
replacement of contractor-build works by community-managed construction, as the latter alternative
proved less expensive and efficient.
A Bank assessment of the construction program in 2000 concluded that it was conducted in a
satisfactory manner, with an excellent reception on the part of the communities. The report noted
some issues in construction planning and logistics that should be taken into account in future
projects, specifically: (a) architectural prototypes need to be flexible enough to allow for proper
adaptation to local conditions; (b) construction scheduling should be better coordinated with
procurement and delivery of equipment and furniture to avoid additional costs and delays; and (c)
any new construction should be accompanied by a maintenance plan placing responsibility for this
function on the users, with provision for appropriate maintenance financing to protect the
- 8 -



investment. The implementation experience of this sub-component indicated that the project
responded creatively in view of the diversity of the places where construction took place.
Agreements were signed with states, municipalities, parents associations and school councils for
construction. Standard cost limits were enforced, and advances over the total cost were provided to
the community for the purchase of building materials. This approach had some problems, but the
overall construction process was facilitated and costs lowered. The problems faced included
construction defects and unfinished work in some schools visited by the Bank mission. In spite of
these problems, the approach gave reasonably good results, allowing the construction of more
facilities than planned. The experience shows that many of the problems confronted could have been
solved if more attention was paid to the supervision of works and to the provision of technical
support to the communities. Mandatory technical construction supervision, to be provided by the
states, is a feature in PAREIB-11.
Physical targets were substantially exceeded for school construction/rehabilitation, school fumiture
and other essential school infrastructure. At project conclusion 9,770 classrooms were built, or
almost twice the 5,557 revised target. A total of 8,315 classrooms were rehabilitated and furnished,
compared to 4,018 planned; and 4,951 sanitary facilities were installed compared to an estimated
782. Overall, the implementation of this sub-component achieved twice as many infrastructure
improvements as planned at a cost that fell short of appraisal estimates by almost 25 percent.
Component C: Institutional Strengthening. ICR Rating: Satisfactory (US$169.2 million or
29.2 percent of total project costs). This component was intended to improve management,
planning and evaluation capacity at state and central levels in the context of system decentralization.
It also aimed at improving teacher's attendance and retention rates through a teacher performance
incentives program; increasing the effectiveness of school supervisors, by facilitating their visits to
schools with transportation stipends and vehicles, and by improving the facilities and equipment of
supervision offices; improving the distribution of textbooks and educational materials to school
through additional warehousing space. It also included financing for the administration of the
project.
C.1 Management Capacity. Improvement in managerial capacity at central and state levels was
pursued through training and technical assistance. A total of 136 training courses directed at
mid-level and high-level management of the SEPEs were given. Training focused on educational
planning and policy analysis, with special reference to information systems, strategic planning,
impact evaluation, and administrative efficiency of projects. The decentralization goal of this
sub-component was attained through increased delegation of project management functions to the
SEPEs (e.g., for contracting of technical assistance, conducting procurement, testing and adapting
information systems). More modest were the achievements in analysis of education policies,
utilization of study findings, and development of diagnostic capacity at state level. Although all
SEPEs were provided with equipment and training for state evaluation offices and participated in
the application of student achievement tests, actual analysis of test results fell short of expectations,
reflecting similar problems observed at the central level.
C.2 Teacher Incentives. Quantitative targets for this activity were surpassed by 57 percent. A total
of 83,708 teachers received performance incentives compared to a revised target of 53,290. The real
significance, however, lies in the transformation of the process of school management of the teacher
performance incentives. The provision of incentives to teachers, designed primarily to ensure higher
retention and attendance rates of teachers working in remote areas, resulted in enhanced
involvement of rural teachers in their schools and greater accountability to the parents of those
-9-



communities. A new contractual arrangement between the teacher, the education authorities, and the
community itself was entered into, whereby teachers directly agreed with the community to maintain
satisfactory attendance records and to render a several extra-curricular services, both to the students
and to the community in general, such as providing tutoring to students falling behind and helping
coordinate education with other local social programs. Parents effectively discharged their
responsibility for confirmning the teachers' compliance with the contract clauses. Parents' reports
impacted on the amount of the incentive that teachers received. Three important results were
reached: (a) teacher attendance and retention rates increased significantly, (b) the criteria for
awarding teacher performance incentives were unified for all different sources of funding
(CONAFE, states, and SEP) and incentives became clearly linked to the post, not to the individual
teacher, therefore preventing the continuation of payment once the teacher moved to another school;
and (c) and parents assumed a more active role in the education of their children and in the
management of their schools.
A reassessment of the teacher incentives program is planned for PAREIB-Il and will serve as basis
for fine tuning the program, to verify whether the observed improvements in attendance and
retention of teachers can in fact be sustained, and to ascertain whether or not performance
incentives for teachers have an effect on student learning achievement and retention.
C3 Improvement of the Supervision System. The purpose of this sub-component was to facilitate
the full participation of supervisors in meeting the pedagogical needs of teachers and schools under
their jurisdiction. Interventions included training, increasing the availability of vehicles, improved
office space, equipment and supplies, and provision of stipends for supervisory visits to schools.
During execution, it became apparent that the administrative responsibilities of supervisors
frequently absorbed most of their time; visits to schools and technical support to teachers were not
an essential part of their duties, indicating that role of the supervisor had to be redefined. A
redefined approach to supervisor and teacher training now includes content that helps reinforce the
pedagogic support to teachers by the supervisory team. The sub-component met or surpassed all of
its targets: 21,006 supervisors received stipends compared to a revised target of 13,308; 922
supervision offices were built/renovated and equipped, compared to the revised target of 719; and
200 vehicles were provided for supervision, financed entirely from national funds, a much lower
number than the original estimate of 900 vehicles.
C.4 Books and materials distribution system. Long delays in the distribution of education
materials is a persistent problem, attributed in part to centralized distribution arrangements. This
problem was addressed through the provision of decentralized distribution facilities through the
construction of additional warehousing modules. The targets for this sub-component were adjusted
at the mid-term review, when it was determined that states did not need all the new warehouses
planned as they could use other government storage facilities. The revised target of 112 warehouse
modules replaced the 136 originally planned. Although timeliness of distribution of school
materials improved with some delegation of procurement of school supplies to states, Bank missions
in 2000 were still reporting that many schools visited were having problems because student kits,
books, and teaching materials were not received at the beginning of the school year in detriment of
teaching and student learning.
Component D: School-Based Management. ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory (US$54.7 million
or 9.5 percent of total project costs). This component successfully established school councils and
parents' associations in approximately 13,800 project primary schools with support from the AGEs.
Parents' associations received financial transfers and appropriate training to buid their management
- 10 -



capacity and ensure the transparent handling of public funds. The most important development
impact of this component was the enhanced participation of parents and communities in the schools.
Parents now define, together with principals and teachers, the needs of the schools and determine
their relative priorities, provide effective support through donation of their time, and help ensure
that both teachers and educational materials are present in the schools. This innovative
school-based management with community participation was successfully incorporated into the
national education policy. PAREIB-II plans to expand the initiative to the preschool level, expand
coverage at the primary level, and further enhance the training of parents to enable their
participation in the improvement of the quality of education. A total of 52,600 AGEs are expected
to be functioning by the end of PAREIB-II.
Component E. Initial Education. ICR Rating: Satisfactory (US$68.3 million or 11.8 percent of
total project costs). This innovative component (reprogrammed as continuation and expansion of
PRODEI), intended to improve child-rearing practices among parents of 0 - 4 year children, using a
highly participatory approach, both in terms of interaction with the parents and communities, and
among supervisors and coordinators in development of curricula and materials. The ten-week
training program for parents reached approximately 1.6 million parents (largely mothers), greatly
exceeding the original goal of 958,420 families and benefitting an estimated 1.9 million preschool
children. During training, effective messages were conveyed to mothers by community promoters
(selected by the community and trained by the program) and through radio programs. Training
sessions emphasized the importance of seeking medical care for women's reproductive health needs,
encouraging attendance to well-baby care clinics and promoting good child-rearing practices. The
success of the program in terms of information retained by participants, and even changes in
behavior, has been attributed largely to the good training and high motivation of the promoters and
to the quality of the materials used which rely heavily on graphic representations rather than text.
Mothers became aware that what they do with their children is part of the children's education. The
program provided a venue for the socializing of mothers leading to open exchange of ideas and
experiences. Evidence indicates that participants in the program increased their self-esteem and
confidence, and were more prone to participate in other community activities.
The program promoted the organization of pro-childhood committees, with participation of parents,
teachers, health workers, and local authorities including police. The performance of these
committees is uneven among the municipalities, but in the most successful cases it has been
possible to observe attitudinal changes in couples, particularly among mothers. The observed
changes in child-rearing practices included better communication between parents and children,
more parental attention to children's needs, a reduction in violent behavior of parents toward their
children, more interest children's health and nutrition, and improved home hygiene. Some of the
pro-childhood committees that are functioning properly have introduced noticeable environmental
improvements favorable to child health and well-being such as street and canal cleaning and
construction of playgrounds. The program consolidated IE units in each state and mobilized state
funds, so that now approximately 23 percent of total costs is financed by the states.
The ICR for Loan 3518-ME identified the need for evaluating the impact-of this program on child
development and subsequent school performance, particularly to test if indeed the program
improves children's readiness for school. In 1998-99 terns of reference for such an evaluation study
were prepared and the study was conducted. Unfortunately, the results of the study proved less than
useful due to design deficiencies. PAREIB-II will resume this concem by financing a baseline study
to trace beneficiaries of the initial education program in preschool and primary school. The



baseline together with achievement tests applied to the entire population of school children, will be
used for the subsequent evaluation of the program impact in children's school performnance. Also
planned is a reassessment of cultural appropriateness of the educational materials with regard to
gender and ethnicity and the effectiveness of pedagogic practice.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic analysis was carried out upon project completion (Annex 3) using direct project costs in
constant US dollars of 2001 and non-project-financed recurrent costs related to salaries paid to teachers
and maintenance costs of the schools. These recurrent costs were estimated based on costs per student for
the Mexican public primary education system. Using household survey data and administrative records,
benefits were estimated by measuring the aggregate effect of the project in the future earnings of the
beneficiary children, taking into account the actual improvement in enrollment and completion rates
achieved by the project in primary schools and the expected increment in education quality and its impact
on productivity. These data allowed the estimation of improvements in the various levels of education of the
labor force and the corresponding impact on average labor earnings per education level and gender. As
summarized below, the net benefit/cost ratio for the project is estimated at 196:100 using a discount rate of
12.5 percent per year and a 30-year time horizon. This is considered a low-bound result, as the analysis
did not attempt to quantify the externalities of basic education.
PAREB Benefit/Cost Ratio (US$ million)
Net Present Value of Total Income of Project Beneficiaries with Project  742,396
Net Present Value of Total Income of Beneficiaries without the Project  722,361
Marginal Project Benefits                                               20.0
Net Present Value of Costs                                              10.2
Net Present Value of PAREB                                              30.0
Benefit/Cost Ratio:                                                   196:100
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return analysis is not applicable. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the fiscal impact
of the project is negligible. Recurrent project costs, estimated at 43 percent of total costs, are only 2.7
percent of the recurring costs of providing public primary education. The continuity of compensatory
education programs is ensured in the government's budget until marked disparities in educational
opportunities are eliminated.
4.5 Institutional development inmpact:
The project successfully achieved the intended institutional development objectives, considering the
following: (a) several project activities have been absorbed into the regular education programs of the SEP
and SEPEs, which represents a general recognition of the value of these activities in improving primary
education quality and efficiency, thus enhancing the probability that project benefits will be sustainable; (b)
the adoption of an strengthened school supervision system provided the basis for more cost-effective
in-service teacher training, which is expected to lead to better classroom teaching practices with lasting
impact in students learning achievements; (c) the regular use of multi-grade pedagogic methods and
bilingual education, greatly enhanced the effectiveness of rural and indigenous schools; (d) the
- 12-



establishment of the AGE programn helped institutionalize school-based management and community
participation in all aspects of school life and is now an accepted strategy country-wide; and (e) the
successful implementation of an expanded non-formal initial education program, made the program an
integral part of the community life in poor rural municipalities and mobilized technical and financial
support from the states and municipalities. An important area that still needs further institutional
development is the evaluation of the quality of initial and basic education, both as to teaching methods and
the academic achievement of students. Support for this activity is continuing through the PAREIB-II.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As indicated in Section 3, the sharp devaluation of Mexican peso in 1994-95 led to a reduction in project
costs in local currency by approximately 50 percent, which in turn led to a partial cancellation of the Bank
loan in July 1995 and a complex project restructuring exercise which was successfully completed in May
1997. The restructuring responded to the new financial context of the country and to the sector need to
improve administrative efficiency in the implementation of on-going education projects. Board approval
was sought for the restructuring, as the project objectives were expanded and two new components were
added: school based management and initial education. In parallel, the balance of Loan 3518-ME was
cancelled and that project closed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the first two years of project implementation, recurrent changes in CONAFE staff were constraints
to the successful execution of the project as the new staff had to be trained anew to fully understand the
project objectives and components and become familiar with Bank procedures. A compensating factor was
the relative stability of the borrower's staff at NAFIN.
5.3 Factors generallY subject to implementing agency control:
There were delays in processing the procurement of goods throughout project implementation. This
problem affected not only the pace of loan disbursements but also the timely delivery of goods to schools.
Several measures were taken by CONAFE, with Bank technical assistance, to improve performance in this
area, including the decentralization of National Competitive Bidding (NBC) and of smaller contracts to the
states and the effective training of state procurement staff. There were also delays in completing the
management information system intended to monitor the physical and financial progress of project
implementation. By project completion, CONAFE has significantly strengthen its procurement and
financial management capacity, making notable progress in improving its MIS system. The performance of
the agency in the areas of planning and budgeting was consistently highly satisfactory as was the attention
paid to increasing the participation of the states in project planning and execution. One area that still needs
improvement is in the design and analysis of studies to evaluate project performance, and in the effective
utilization of the evaluation results in project implementation and policy decisions.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Loan 3722-ME was approved on Mach 11, 1994 for the amount of $412.0 million. In July 14, 1995 a
US$40.0 million partial loan cancellation was approved to adjust for the impact of the 1994-95 financial
crisis in Mexico, along with partial cancellations of ten other Bank loans to Mexico. In May 23, 1997 the
project was restructured, as indicated above. The total cost of the restructured project was estimated at
$557.0 million of which the Bank loan was to finance $372.0 million and the govemment contribution was
- 13 -



$185 million. At Loan closing in December 31, 2001, the total costs of the project amounted to $578.8
million of which the Bank financed 64 percent, or 2.8 percent less than estimated at appraisal.
Disbursements were slow during the 1994-95 start up years but stabilized at approximately US$4.0 million
per quarter thereafter. All external audit reports were timely presented and unqualified, and CONAFE was
diligent in introducing improvements in internal financial controls as recommended in the audits.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Highly likely
The benefits of the project are highly likely to be sustained considering that: (a) several activities initiated
under the project have been incorporated into the regular basic education program and are financed by the
Government regular budget, meaning not only that benefits from these activities will be continued in the
project area but also that they will be extended nation-wide; and (b) the compensatory education programs
have received increasingly high priority by SEP and the teachers' union, which included continuation of
compensatory programs among the conditions for the 2001 contract negotiations. These factors indicate a
strong likelihood that the impact achieved by the project will be sustained and possibly enhanced.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Reading corners and Indigenous textbooks were absorbed by SEP's regular basic education
program. Other project activities are being improved and expanded, both geographically and
throughout the educational system, through the planned several phases of PAREIB, the first phase
of which was completed at the same time as this project. PAREIB-I1 will also be implemented by
CONAFE, ensuring continuity and efficiency. Improved impact indicators have been developed
for PAREIB-II and will be applied nationwide.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating is based on the following: (a) project design supported the Government strategy to
modernize basic education and, in particular, CONAFE's compensatory education programs, and made
technical improvements to certain aspects of that strategy; (b) continuity of the Bank team helped sustain
the project concept through several changes in the Government team during the preparatory process; (c) the
assessment of institutional capacities and project risks was thorough, and collaboration with CONAFE
highly productive as far as the identification of strengthens and weaknesses; (d) measures devised to
minimize project risks were well thought out, as for example technical assistance directed to the SEPEs,
compensating for their little or no experience with externally financed projects; (e) the institutional
arrangements for the project were appropriate in an environment of transition to decentralization; (f) project
design ensured that major components complemented each other effectively and also ensured
complementarity with basic education activities financed in parallel by the Inter-American Development
Bank (IADB); (g) project design successfully addressed safeguard policy issues by supporting the
educational development of indigenous peoples in the project states; (h) lessons learned from previous
education projects in Mexico and in other countries were incorporated into the design; and (i) outcome and
output indicators were detailed and adequate to monitor project implementation. On the other hand, the
- 14 -



introduction of quality assessment indicators and of data analyses on student learning achievements,
available in Mexico, could have improved the evaluation of project impact and the design of future
interventions.
7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Supervision was generally adequately staffed and carried out with regular frequency. Continuity of
Bank staff, as well as their skill mix, were instrumental in terms of consistency and thoroughness of
supervision missions. The Bank showed appropriate flexibility in supporting the Borrower's request
for project restructuring, a process that started in 1995 with a partial loan cancellation and was
successfully completed in 1997. While there was a danger that incorporating Initial Education into a
project originally focused on formal primary education could have introduced undue complexity,
this proved not to be the case, as the arrangements for carrying PAREB and PRODEI were
efficiently in place. Procurement and financial management issues received careful attention,
largely thanks to the presence of specialists in the Bank's Mexico City office after 1996.
Several thematic supervision missions were organized, focused on infrastructure, textbooks and
studies. These thematic missions benefited not only the project but also projects in other countries
of the Region, since they provided for the participation of several countries. For much of the
project period, implementation was rated highly satisfactory by supervision missions for at least one
component, and usually for two. While this accurately reflected the general status of
implementation, it may have overstated the project status, as several sub-components experienced
delays. For example, notable delays were observed in the evaluation of the initial education
program, in the completion of the management information system, and in the evaluation of
educational materials.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Although overall Bank performance was satisfactory, the process of project restructuring could have been
completed earlier, especially considering the important efficiency gains resulting from the restructuring.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The Borrower and the project executing agencies, particularly CONAFE, were highly effective in project
preparation, particularly in eliciting the participation of the states, which in tum helped design a project
that effectively supported the national policy for the decentralization of basic education. Also noteworthy is
the effort of the Govemment in developing a targeting methodology that ensured that project benefits would
accrue to the poorest and most educationally disadvantaged schools. Using preparation funds from the
Bank and a grant from the Governnent of Japan, a competent team of consultants worked well under
CONAFE's coordination, assembling the necessary information and preparing details of the project
components, costs and implementation schedule.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
- 15 -



The performance of the Borrower, Nacional Financiera S.N. C. (NAFIN), and of SEP was generally
satisfactory throughout project implementation. NAFIN effectively administered the Special Account, the
transfer of funds to the states, and provided procurement technical assistance and quality control. SEP
maintained a consistent policy framework, supported the innovations introduced by the project, and
contributed to its sustainability by incorporating several project activities into the regular basic education
program.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
CONAFE was diligent in ensuring competent staff for the PCU and in general addressed well
implementation problems effectively, finding opportune solutions and ensuring the active participation of
the SEPEs. CONAFE's financial management and administration of procurement were substantially
strengthened during project implementation, and the agency overall technical capacity developed. The
agency's coordination of implementation of activities was generally efficient and timely; it used technical
assistance in critical areas to good effect, particularly with respect to development of materials and
diagnostic analysis of SEPEs' capacity. CONAFE monitored well the implementation progress in terms of
output and outcome targets using agreed indicators accurately, though it shares with the Bank
responsibility for the lack of indicators to measure the impact of the project in student learning
achievement. CONAFE's relationship with SEP could also be improved to ensure more intensive
collaboration between regular and compensatory educational programs, and between the normative (SEP)
and the operational (CONAFE) facets of the program.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The overall performance of the Government was satisfactory, considering the following factors: (a) SEP's
consistent support for the compensatory education program policy advanced by the project, (b) priority
allocation of budgetary resources to the project and to education in general, in spite of the financial
constraints that initially impaired implementation; (c) willingness to experiment with innovative initiatives;
(d) competent technical, administrative and financial management. A greater focus on evaluation of project
outcomes and on making use of quality indicators would have improved investment and policy decisions on
how to further enhance the quality of basic education.
8. Lessons Learned
The successful achievement of project objectives, as well as the difficulties encountered in implementation,
yielded several lessons that should be taken into account in future operations.
*   A clear and consistent policy framework is key to the achievement of project objectives.
Improvement in education, particularly in a large system such as the Mexican one, requires the support
of clear, long-term, and consistent policy. This is especially important when a previously centralized
system is being decentralized to state level.
*   Project ownership and continuous participation of stakeholders greatly enhance project design
and implementation. Parents, teachers, state authorities as well as officials at all levels in NAFIN,
SEP, CONAFE, and SEPEs demonstrated knowledge and interest in the project activities and
objectives, which in turn facilitated the process of adjusting project design to changing needs and
contributed to the overall successful implementation of the project. Although some stakeholders felt
- 16 -



threatened by some measures (e.g., teachers felt threatened by the larger role assigned to parents), this
was offset by direct incentives or advantages from other measures. Thus, in the end, all stakeholders
perceived themselves as benefiting from the project as a whole.
*   Effective targeting is essential to optimize the impact of compensatory programs. In order to
ensure achievement of the goals of compensatory programs, resources must be channeled to the schools
that will benefit most from the extra support. Since both poor and better-off states and municipalities
have deficient and good schools, the identification of target schools requires a more precise mechanism
than simple geographic targeting. In this project, poverty indicators were combined with educational
indicators in a coherent and precise targeting mechanism. Moreover, the targeting mechanism was in
fact used throughout project implementation and particularly well from school-year 1995-96 onwards.
Targeting would be better still if there were clear criteria for the exit from the program of schools
which achieved the desired teaching and learning standards. This however can only be done through
timely evaluation of school conditions and student learning achievements. Such enhancement will be
made in the context of PAREIB-II.
*   Precise output indicators should not obviate the need for outcome indicators. The pattern of
measuring inputs and neglecting to estimate what impact these inputs have on the central goal of
improving the quality and efficiency of basic education is all too common. The experience of this
project clearly shows that quality improvement indicators should have been explicitly included in
project design.
*   The results of the measurement of education quality must be analyzed and disseminated. Standard
tests measuring student learning achievements must be analyzed to enable identification of the factors
that contribute most to improvements. The resulting information should be widely disseminated and be
available at the school level. Teachers, parents, students and state authorities, not only national
experts, should stay abreast of how children are progressing at school and exercise pressure for change
when warranted. Mexico is among the Latin American countries with possibly the best student
academic assessment system. Section 10 and Annex 7 show that several studies analyzed the results of
learning achievement tests. However, the benefit of this knowledge is still limited, because the findings
from these analyses have not been fully utilized to guide policy and investment, and were not
disseminated at the school level. These limitations seriously curtail opportunities for effective
improvement in the delivery of education services. A significant change is happening with the decision
of the current Administration to disseminate information on academic achievement ot the general
public. The first phase of PAREIB has strengthen the evaluation capacity at state level and the second
phase will experiment with universal testing in CONAFE-supported primary schools (as opposed to
sample-based testing) complemented by records on school conditions and student background, the
information will be analyzed at central and state levels and results will be disseminated at school level.
*   Updating teaching skills through in-service training can be more effective when combined with
classroom-based technical assistance. The experience of this project as well as research carried out
at the school level in poor communities of four Mexican states during 2000, has shown that teachers
demand and benefit from direct technical assistance at the school level. The application of new teaching
skills to the specific conditions of the classroom and the individual needs of students is not an easy
task. Often, in-service training courses are designed without the benefit of direct classroom
observation, making them less than relevant. Classroom observation and technical support provided to
teachers by supervisors and technical pedagogic assistants may prove instrumental in helping teachers
put into practice the concepts learned during training sessions. The knowledge gained in this process
can in turn be applied to create a more cost-effective in-service training system. This innovation will
be piloted by PAREIB-II.
- 17 -



*   Community participation greatly improves the cost-effectiveness of school infrastructure
investments but requires appropriate design and technical supervision. Architectural prototypes
need to be flexible enough to allow for proper adaptation to local conditions, construction scheduling
needs to be properly coordinated with procurement and delivery of equipment and furniture to avoid
additional costs and delays, the work of communities and municipalities in carrying out infrastructure
improvements require periodic technical supervision to ensure quality of the buildings and timely
completion.
*   Community agreements for the maintenance of school buildings need to be properly funded. This
provision applies both to new and existing school infrastructure. This project, as others in the Region,
successfully transferred financial resources to parents associations to support preventive maintenance
of school buildings and the procurement of complementary educational materials. The resources were
applied judiciously and transparently, showing that AGEs can be relied upon for timely action in the
preservation of the investment. At the same time, the process has strengthen parental involvement in
the education of their children.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
GENERAL COMMENTS ON
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) OF
LOAN 3722-ME [PAREBI
The report presents - in a clear and succinct manner, the actions of greater relevance
developed by PAREB, highlighting more the achievements and advances than the weaknesses
in the implementation of the program.
* The compensatory education program advanced substantially, by providing primary
education services reaching and surpassing, in almost all the cases, the objectives and the
agreed targets, especially with respect to the packages of didactic materials and education
infrastructure.
In general terms, the results of the objectives and commitments with the World Bank were
qualified as satisfactory; however, the following aspects require continued strengthening:
* Among the weaknesses of the project the following are highlighted: the high rotation of
agents in school supervision, causes a decrease in the school visits, affecting the operation of
the school projects. With respect to institutional development, the area of evaluation of the
quality of education needs to be strengthened, both in the methodology of teaching and in the
assessment of student achievement. There is a lack of indicators to measure the impact of the
project and the learning achievement of the students. The community agreements for the
maintenance of the school classrooms need to be properly financed. The financial and
normative authorities of the Mexican Government (SHCP and SEP) should make their best
effort to comply with future budgetary commitments agreed to, and to provide the funds in an
opportune way, through good planning mechanisms.
* Among the aspects that can still be improved, the following are cited. A normative and
-18 -



consistent framework supporting the achievement of the program objectives, needs to be
sustained. Greater involvement of participant agents. Better achievement indicators. The
modernization of the competences of teachers can be more effectively achieved when a
strategy or plan of technical support in the classroom is combined with training.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
The trends in student's test scores are shown in the following graphs for project schools (CONAFE),
non-project schools in the project states, and the national average. More detailed information is available
in the project file.
EVEP (I-V) - CONAFE
SEGUIMIENTO GENERACIONAL
2d4. 35, 40. S.y 6.
ESPAOL
500  ____I
453 8         MI4558SS 575.2
coot.   ~~~~425       115.5         518.5 5.                     2.
45            5040          55_ --.A                    855.9
-19 -



EVEP (I-V) - CONAFE
SEGUISI,ENTO GENERACIONAL
2do. 3r,o 40. So y 60
UATEmATICAS
100
300 0
21b1996         ~~~3.o1997             401966                 5019099.00
403.1                 45049A5923
379 5                 4307                   45771                 4939                  524.9
TdI,               393A4                 42                    491.6                 M04A30
ESTAN4DARES CONAFE
SEGUIMIENTO HIST6RICO
So GRADO
ESPAAOL
50 0-
69000
soo 0 
400.0;                   ~        ~       -          
400 C
390
300.0           elB                          o                             2WOM
451.1                        454.6                       400.8672
472.6                       464.3                         006.3                       501.7
Td.           ~~~~471-2                    402 4                        492.7                        S .
- 20 -



ESTANDARES . COSAFE
SEGUIMIENTO HISTCRICO
So GRADO
M ATEMATICAS
0.0 .
.50 0                    __                                   __
r00 02_
*,0 0                                                                              _-
*00 0__                 __
3,0 0                                _            _                                                      _~$O 
O400785.            '000                        0085          I            5050                       45050
079.0                       w8                        402.0                      5or l
ESTANDARES CONAFE
SEGUIUIENTO GENERACIONAL
2do, 3ro, 40 y So
ESPAROL
000.0
450 0
70D 0 -
3000 
2d05I0                        305000                          402000D                       502001
*Sood               450                           400.2                           44 a                          4452
N.o.d .             440.7                          403.0                         404.8                           404
:  Todos            4:4.0                          425.5                          7005 *T.5
- 21 -



ESTANDARES - CONAFE
SEGUIMIENTO GENERACIONAL
2do, 3r0, 4O y So
MATEmATICAS
7000
4500
550.0                                    .__                                                                    _
4000_
300.0
2dorDs 19901"99                                           402000                       S.2001
44t<                         3949                          432.4                       4518
-tbAd   ~      ~~~~~~~~ i83                 4385                          as.o                        487
To,d               4SS 7                        420.2                         463.5                       472.0
ESTANDARES - CONAFE
SEGUIMIENTO GENERACIONAL
4. So. y 60 1.0
ESPAOL
sso o                                                                                                    _
40.0
3500 
3000
.7. IS3                                                     40 .         _
50000. 0s 'o.                                    372.7                         m._ 43 .5
T- lo.fo            20.                          .07s5                         492.7                         40.0
- 22 -



ESTANDARES . CONAFE
SEGUIMIENTO GENERACIONAL
49. So, So y 1o Soc
MATEmATICAS
700.0
550 0 
5000
450 0        ..                                                                                    _.. 
40000
300.0                                                                                                  ____0______
300.0
__   4o1050                  SD319                       eO2000                       Io.S2001
40..           442.                                       473.5                        403.5
-140~   _*442.6                                 4708                          505.1                        505 3
Td_                4238 45                        3                           492 8                        505 0
ESTANDARES - CONAFE
SEGUIMIENTO GENERACIONAL
SO. Go. IO SeC y 2do Sec
ESPAIOL
700.0
5S0 0                                                        _
600.0
400 C
430.0
500 0.____                                                                                                         _
350.0
300s0.
0019K                       Bo1000                      I.S.0oo                      2dS.cDDI
O- W                422.9                        4545                        .452.7                       493
_bcw F4><k *470 3                               454.3                       504.0                        S30.5
45t.7                        40324                        501.                         5257
- 23 -



ESTANDARES . CONAFE
SEGUIIMIENTO GENERACIONAL
So, 60, lo Sec y 2do Sec
MATEm ATICAS
650 o              _               _
600 0
450 0
400.0
3500o__
3000               s
0o1500                       0.oln                      loS.2000                     0800.c2001
43306                       48405                        400a8os
-4'-- seo-~. _8754                                 4B0.3                        sits         _104
-  i- r4509                                     4 4.e                       s153                         517 6
-24-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome Indicators
-   -: -  :  - - . .- -' .   :.  -      -   Baseline       Actual/latest Estimate-
Indicator              .       19O41995: (%O).     2000-200(1 (%)
1. Increase completion rates in primary schools
(a) Project primary schools in PAREB states            66.5                 80.1
(b) Non-Project primary schools in PAREB states        78.6                 85.1
(c) National average for primary schools               77.7                 85.1
2. Reduce dropout rates in primary schools
(a) Project primary schools in PAREB states            6.0                  2.1
(b) Non-Project primary schools in PAREB states        3.3                  2.1
(c) National average for primary schools               3.4                  2.1
3. Reduce repetition rates in primary schools
(a) Project primary schools in PAREB states            10.4                 8.1
(b) Non-Project primary schools in PAREB states        7.2                  6.1
(c) National average for primary schools               7.0                  6.1
-25 -



Output Indicators
Revised Target  Actual/Latest    Percentage
:   -  Indicators                                Estimate        of Revised
1994-2001      1994-200 1        Target
1. Initial Education: Number of families     958,420        1,575,642          104
participating
2. Teachers and administrators trained        498,384        509,674           102
3.- Educational Materials:
(a) school packages                        24,507         31,236            127
(b) classroom packages                    157,408         18,889            12
(c) student packages                     11,632,123     20,618,274          177
(d) classroom libraries (Reading Corners)  32,968         30,814            93
(e) Indigenous textbooks and materials    966,623         56,500             6
4. Educational Infrastructure
(a) new classrooms built                   5,447           9,770            179
(b) classrooms rehabilitated and equipped  4,297           8,315            194
(c) bathrooms and latrines                  782            4,951            663
(d) warehouse modules                       121             112             85
(e) supervisory offices build/rehabilitated and  719        911             127
equipped
5. Institutional Strengthening
(a) teachers receiving performance incentives  53,290     83,708            157
(b) supervisors receiving travel grants    13,308         21,006            158
(c) organization of school-based management  54,942       80,166            146
(AGE)
(d) planning courses offered                116             136             117
(e) CONAFE management information system
(including initial education program)      I          completed          100
6. Studies
(a) Evaluation of rural primary schools
supported
by compensatory programs in Guanajuato,    I          completed          100
Colima, San Luis Potosi                    I          completed          100
(b) Preschool education                      I           cancelled
(c) Secondary education                      I           cancelled
(d) Enviromnental education                  I           cancelled
(e) Science education                        1           completed          100
(f) Impact evaluation of the initial education
program
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Component                Appraisal      ActualLatest       Percentage of
.__________________________________ vEsiimate   Estimate          Appraisal
A. Human Resources Development          107.9            92.2              85.4
B. Educational Material Resources
B. 1 Teaching Materials & Student
Packages                            179.2            90.5               50.5
B.2 Reading Corners                     7.1              2.4               34.1
B.3 Indigenous Education                 6.2             0.3                4.8
B.4 Infrastructure Improvement          131.8           101.2              76.8
C. Institutional Strengthening
C.1 Management Capacity                 17.6             2.4               13.6
C.2 Teacher Incentives                  104.3           109.8              105.3
C.3 Improvement of Supervision System   21.9             20.3              92.6
C.4 Books & Materials Distribution      11.6             1.9               16.2
System
C.5 Project Administration              29.1             34.8              119.6
D. School-Based Management              0.0              54.7               0.0
E. Initial Education                    0.0              68.3               0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/             616.7            578.8              93.9
1/ Figures include taxes and duties estimated at about US$44.3 million at appraisal and US$46.3 million
latest estimate.
-27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Category        ICB           NCB           Other     -   N.B.F.- Total
Civil Works         0.0          43.0           83.2          0.0           126.2
(0.0)        (21.5)         (41.6)         (0.0)        (63.1)
Goods              153.2         23.8          29.0           3.1           209.1
(106.2)        (16.4)        (21.1)         (0.0)        (143.7)
Services           0.0            0.0          113.0          0.0           113.0
(0.0)         (0.0)         (113.0)        (0.0)        (113.0)
Incremental
Operational         0.0           0.0          168.4          0.0           168.4
Costs              (0.0)          (0.0)        (92.2)         (0.0)         (92.2)
TOTAL             153.2          66.8          393.6          3.1          616.7
(106.2)       (37.9)        (267.9)         (0.0)        (412.0)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActualULatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- Category         ICB           NCB           Other-        N.B.F.         Total
Civil Works         0.0           3.8           99.3           0.0          103.1
(0.0)         (1.9)         (65.8)         (0.0)        (67.7)
Goods              60.3          50.9           8.0            1.4          120.6
(51.3)        (14.2)         (0.0)          (0.0)        (65.5)
Services            0.0           0.0          168.2           0.0          168.2
(0.0)         (0.0)         (125.0)        (0.0)        (125.0)
Incremental
Operational         0.0           0.0          186.9           0.0          186.9
Costs              (0.0)          (0.0)        (113.8)         (0.0)        (113.8)
TOTAL              60.3          54.7          462.4           1.4          578.8
(51.3)        (16.1)        (304.6)         (0.0)        372.0
- 28 -



Project Financing by Component (US$ million equivalent)\l
Component            Appraisal Estniate ActuaULatest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
._____._____.____-_____-___ Bank Gov. Total *Bahk .Gov.      Total  Bank   Gov.   Total
A. Human Resources Development  75.5 27.9 107.9  73.3   18.9  92.2   97.1  67.7   85.4
B. Educational Material Resources  227.0 97.3 324.3 116.6  77.8  194.4  51.4  80.0  59.9
C. Institutional Strengthening  109.5 75.0 184.5 101.5  67.7  169.2  92.7  90.3   91.7
D. School-Based Management      0.0   0.0  0.0   32.8  21.9   54.7   0.0    0.0   0.0
E. Initial Education            0.0   0.0  0.0   47.8  20.5   68.3   0.0    0.0   0.0
TOTAL                       412.0 204.7 616.7 372.0  206.8  578.8  90.3  101.0  93.9
1/ Project financing by component was not estimated at appraisal, thus the figures above correspond to the ICR estimates.
-29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
PAREB was a joint effort of the Government of Mexico and the World Bank to improve the administration,
quality and efficiency of initial and primary education in rural and indigenous areas of 14 states that were
the most disadvantaged in comparison with the national averages. The 14 states are: Campeche, Chiapas,
Durango, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz
and Yucatan.
1. Costs
Total project costs during the period 1994-2001 amounted to US$578.8 million in current dollars and were
financed with a Bank loan of US$372 million and the remainder financed by the government. The present
value of the costs, in constant dollars at 2001 prices is US$639.8 million. This value was obtained by
applying the average interest rate for US bank loans prevailing in 1994 through 2001.
Besides direct project costs, the analysis takes into account recurrent costs associated with teacher salaries
and maintenance of school buildings that were not financed by the project. These costs are estimated based
on the analysis of public expenditures in education per student. The recurrent costs for the 1994-2001
period are estimated at US$10.2 billion in constant 2001 dollars. Investment and recurrent costs total
US$10.9 billion in 2001 dollars.
2. Benefits
The net present value of the estimated economic benefits of the project is US$20,035 million in 2001
prices. However, the results presented here may underestimate the total benefits of the project, since they
only identify the impact of PAREB during a relatively short period (1994-2001) and take no account of the
extemalities of basic education. This section presents the methodology for the analysis of benefits, as well
as the assumptions made.
2.1. Methodology for Analysis
The methodology used consisted in estimating the aggregate impact of the project on future labor earnings
of the beneficiary students.
Considering the project objectives of increasing the efficiency of primary rural education, as measured by
increases in enrollment and completion rates, the analysis initially defines two different scenarios:
Scenario 1: conditions improve as a result of PAREB; or
Scenario 2: conditions remain unaltered without PAREB
The economic benefit of PAREB (BENpareb) is given by the present value of the total labor income with
the project (scenario 1) VPN(Ypareb), minus the net present value of the total income from wages and
salaries without the project (scenario 2) VPN(Ybase). That is, the benefit refers only on the marginal effect
of the project on the population of beneficiaries. This effect is represented by the following equation:
BENPareb = VpN(ypareb) _ VP(y     ) V(Iy)a
- 30 -



Next, the net present value of the total income under one of the scenarios i (where i may be "pareb" or
"base"), is defined as follows:
VPN(Y`)=     ,(l+R  , J                             (2) j
R represents the discount rate relevant to the project.
We then define the total income from wages and salaries for an i scenario during a t period, as the sum of
the income that would be earned by all individuals that participated in the project, according to their
educational profile. That is,
3
K
ytf =Jhtint,w*,
k=I
h'
In the previous expression there are K levels of education; kt, represents hours worked during the t period
in category kK, ' ' represents the number of individuals in category k during period t, and wt represents
the hourly salary of an individual from category k during period t.
In this case, the total benefited population is distributed in the K levels of their terminal education,
according to their educational decisions and their likely future labor participation. That is,
N,' =  nk,                                    (4)
k=i
We are assuming that N,' and nk are related according to the following equation:
Yk,                             N'   nk,
Where     is a proportionate factor between  I y  I , which depends on the enrollment and completion
rates for education level k and the previous education levels (if they do exist). For example, if in a scenario
i we study the individuals who finished primary school and did not take secondary studies, in this case,
factor Y  will be dependent on the primary enrollment and completion rates, and on the secondary
enrollment rate.
Thus, the proportionality factors of the population will depend on the enrollment and completion rates for
each academic year. A change in these rates influenced by the PAREB modifies the breakdown of the
- 31 -



benefited population among the various k academic levels, if compared with a situation without the project.
An increase in enrollment and completion rates for primary education has different effects on the academic
structure of the labor market, and specifically affects the number of individuals belonging to each category
(n')
Complementing the just mentioned effect, it may be concluded that an increase in education efficiency leads
to a higher future productivity of the benefited children, and this may be reflected in an increase in their
salary rate (wk-t) for educational level k.
Regarding salaries and their relation to education level, the assumption used is reflected in the following
type of relationship:
w, = woexp(a",)                              (6)
where ak represents the yield rate for the k level of education in an i scenario during a t period, and W0 is
the salary that the individual would have received with no education. If PAREB succeeded in increasing
primary education efficiency, it would result that for a k level of education directly influenced by the
project,
a pareb>a baw~                             (7)
This assumes that in increase in education efficiency raises the productivity of the individuals benefited by
the project, allowing them to obtain better salaries.
2.2. Benefit Assumptions
The following diagram defines six academic levels: (I) no education; (2) incomplete primary education; (3)
primary education completed, but without secondary; (4) primary education completed and incomplete
secondary; (5) primary and secondary education completed (basic education completed); and (6) high
school through university education (grouping all categories of higher education).
- 32 -



Diagram. Population progression by school level
Proceeds to
Registers in primary  Completes primary  Registers in Secondary  Concludes secondary Hligher Education
N1 (l8,)                        &2 j, (l8, ~         ~  (j.)                   &   fl6
fl , (1-6,)   fl (I-62)   s t (1-0    r ~~~~~(1 6)      O 1&
Does not reg. in  Does not complete  Does not reg. in  Does not complete  Does not proceed to
Primary        Primary        Secondary      Secondary       Higher education
n,              n2              n1             n4             nf
In the diagram, I represents the enrollment rate for primary school, 2 completion rate for primary, 3 the
enrollment rate for secondary, 4 the completion rate for secondary, and 5 the enrollment rate for higher
education. On the basis of these rates it is possible to arrive at the proportion corresponding to each
education group, as follows:
Table 1. Educational Levels, enrollment and completion rates
Variable        Educational Level        Proportion factor     Estimate of the proportion
factor
nI      No education                          I                       (1-1)
n2     Incomplete primary                    2                       1 (1-2)
n3    Completed primary                      3                       1 2 (1-3)
n4    Incomplete secondary                   4                      1 2 3 (1-4)
n5    Completed secondary                    5                     1 2 3 4 (1-5)
n6      Higher education                     6                       1 2 3 4 5
The positive influence of PAREB on the future distribution of the labor force among the various categories
of education is likely, given that the project helped increase primary education enrollment and completion
rates. The following rates were assumed:
Table 2. Completion rates by educational category
Variable  Definition                           Base Value       PAREB Value
I      Primary enrollment rate                70.7%             80.0%    /*
2      Primary completion rate                76.6%             80.1%    /*
3      Secondary enrollment rate              29.9%             29.9%   /**
4      Secondary completion rate              76.3%             76.3%  /**
5      Higher education enrollment rate       12.1%             12.1%   /**
Variable         Educational level        Proportional Factor  Proportional Factor
Base               PAREB
nI      No education                          29.28%              20.00%
n2     Incomplete primary                     16.55%              15.92%
n3      Primary completed                     37.97%               44.92%
n4     Incomplete secondary                   3.84%                4.54%
n5      Secondary completed                   10.86%               12.85%
n6      Higher education                       1.50%               1.77%
*/ Data provided by CONAFE.
- 33 -



**/ Estimates based on the Encuesta de Caracteristicas Socioeconomicas de los Hogares (ENCASEH-97).
The second stage of this analysis of benefits takes into account the structure of salaries and the effect of
PAREB on primary education efficiency. In order to explore the relationship between education and
salaries, we developed the following equation using Heckman's two-stage method to correct for
auto-selection bias.
log(w) = Po + B, expj + ,3 exp j2 +api_ ns +a2cpc _ns, + a3pc      Si, +       (8)
a4pc-sc1 +a5ed-sp, +a(I/1A)+Ej
Where,
log(wj):  Logarithm of the salary of a j individual
exp:      Experience in the monetary labor market
pi_ns:    Dummy variable, I if the individual who completed primary, 0 the opposite case
pc_ns:    Dummy variable, I if the individual who completed primary and did not attend
secondary, 0 the opposite case
pc_ci:    Dummy variable, I if the individual completed primary and incomplete secondary and
the opposite case.
pc-sc:    Dummy variable, I if the individual completed primary and secondary and did not
attend university and 0 the opposite case.
edsp:     Dummy variable, I if the individual attended higher education and 0 the opposite case
(I /):    Correction factor for auto-selection (or inverse of Mills' ratio)
Equation (8) was calculated using data from ENCASEH-97 and data from the 14 project states. It was
assumed that PAREB introduced a 15 percent improvement in efficiency of primary school (complete and
incomplete). No other effects of the program on efficiency of other educational levels were considered.
Table 3. Results by education level and sex \*
Education                     Male                       Female
Variable            Level             Base (%)     PAREB (%)      Base (%)     PAREB (%)
I_         Incomplete primary            11.34         13.04         18.88         21.71
2      Complete primary \**         16.41          18.87         17.84         20.51
3      Incomplete secondary         22.86         22.86          32.67         32.67
4      Complete secondary           28.41          28.41         44.93         44.93
5      Higher education             155.87        155.87         170.69        170.69
'/ Percent over income of a person with no education..
**/ Assuming an effect of 15% over primary education, completed or incomplete.
Source: estimates using data from ENCASEH-97.
On the basis of data in the above table, we proceeded to estimate the various components of PAREB
benefits. The results are shown in the next section.
3. Results of the analysis
The economic benefit of PAREB in social terms is estimated at US$40.2 billion at 2001 prices. This
- 34 -



benefit was arrived at considering a time horizon of 30 years after the project has finished and an amnual
discount rate of 12.5 percent. Based on the stated assumptions, the following results were obtained:
Table 4: Marginal benefit of PAREB (in US$ million at 2001 prices)
Net present value of total income with PAREB                          742,396
Net resent value of total income without PAREB                        722,361
Marginal benefit of PAREB                                             20,035
Source: Estimates made on the basis of inferred data using ENCASEFI-97 and CONAFE data.
The benefit shown above is the result of the extensive coverage of the project (an of average of 1.6 million
children per year), as well as the marginal but significant effect of increases in enrollment and completion
rates in primary schools. This benefit could be higher if one were to consider increases in productivity and
any indirect effects of the project on other education levels.
Table 5. Marginal cost-benefit analysis of PAREB (in US$ million at 2001 prices)
Net present value of the benefits                                     20,035
Net present value of the costs                                        10,215.7
Net benefit of PAREB                                                  9819.3
Source: Estimates made on the basis of inferred data using ENCASEH-97 and data from CONAFE
The benefit-cost ratio is 196: 100, indicating a positive impact of the project from a social perspective and
in terms of benefits accrued by the children involved in the project activities.
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Feb.-March 1993             9    1 Procurement Spec., 1
Sociologist, I Economist, 3
Education Specs., I Didactic
Mat. Spec., I Engineer, I
Operations Analyst
March 1993                  3    1 Didactic Mat. Spec., I Educ.
Spec., I Economist.
May 1993                    8    1 Sociologist, 3 Educ. Specs., 2
Economists, I Didactic Mat.
Spec., I Operations Analyst
June 1993                   9    2 Educ. Specs., I Sociologist, I
Didactic Mat. Spec., 3
Economists I Engineer, 1
Operations Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
Oct.-Nov. 1993              9    2 Educ. Specs., I Sociologist
I Economist, 1 Didactic Mat.
Spec., 2 Engineers, I
Accountant, I Operations
Analyst
February 1994               3    1 Educ. Spec., I Didactic Mat.    HS            HS
Spec., I Economist.
Supervision
September 1994               7   1 Sociologist, I Proc. Spec.,     HS            HS
I Educ. Spec., 2 Engineers, I
Economist, I
Communications Spec.
April-May 1995               1   Economist.
June-July 1995               7   I Sociologist, I Proc. Spec., 2   HS            HS
Economists, I Economist, I
Engineer, I Health Spec.
August 1995                  1   Engineer
November 1995                7   I Sociologist, 3 Educ. Specs., I  HS            HS
Proc. Spec., I Engineer, I
Economist.
May 1996                     5   2 Education Specs., I Task        HS            HS
Assistant, I Proc. Spec., I
Economist.
Oct.-Nov. 1996               5   4 Educ. Specs., I Economist.       S            S
May 1997                     6   3 Educ. Specs., I Task Assistant,  S            S
I Proc. Spec., I Economist.
Feb.-March 1997              4   1 Soc. Sector Spec., I Education
Spec., I Economist, I Public
Accountant.
- 36 -



September 1997                I   1 Social Sector Specilist          S             S
February 1998                      1 Social Sector Specialist       S             S
Jan.-Feb. 1999                7   2 Educ. Specs., 1 Sociologist, 2   S             HS
Proc. Specs., I Economist, I FM
Spec.
July 1999                    6    2 Educ. Specs., I Economist, 2     S             HS
Assistants, I Lawyer
June 2000                    8    2 Educ. Specs., I Soc. Sector      S             HS
Spec., 5 Architects
July-August 2000             3    1 Sociologist, I Soc. Sector       S             HS
Spec., I Accountant
December 2000                4    1 Sociologist, I Soc. Sector       S             HS
Spec., I Proc. Spec., I FMSpec.
February 2001                6    1 Sociologist, I Soc. Sector       S             HS
Spec., 1 Proc. Spec., I
Economist, I FM Spec., I
Assistant.
Sept.-Oct. 2001              2    1 Sociologist, 1 IT Spec.          S              S
ICR
March 2002                   4    1 Sociologist, I Soc. Sector
Spec., I Educ. Spec., 1
Economist.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000).
Identification/Preparation                  *                          6.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                       *                          2.1
Supervision                                 *                          4.2
ICR                                         *                          0.5
Total                                       *                         13.1
(*) The budget system does not record the number of staff weeks. Dollar figures by stages of the project cycle are
estimated, since the budget system distinguishes only between lending and supervision phases.
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                      O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
Ol Physical                             O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
LI Financial                            O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
E Institutional Development             0 H   O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
O Gender                          O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
LI Other (Please specify)         O H  O SU O M    O N  * NA
L Private sector development            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
LI Public sector managenment            0 H   O SU *M    0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHSOS OLU OGHU
Ol Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS       O  U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
FO Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
OI Government implementation performance             O HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S     OU     OHU
E Overall                                            OHS * S      O     U  O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Project Completion Report
CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo). 2002 "Informe del Termino de la Implementacion
PAREB/3722-ME."
-- Electronic file with the results of student achievement tests in the project schools, in non-project
schools in the project states, and the national average. SEP, DGE.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Junho-Pena, Nahmad, Albano, Aranda & Nielsen. June 1997. Draft. Evaluaci6n Rdpida de la Educacion
Indigena en los Estados de Oaxaca y Chiapas para el Proyecto de Educacion Basica III en
Mexico.
World Bank. Mexico CAS. 1996, updated March 6, 1998. Report No. R-99-49. November 25.
---- 1997. ICR Mexico: Initial Education Project-Ln-3518-ME. Report No. 17192. October 30.
--------- 1998. ICR Mexico: Primary Education Project - Ln-3407-ME. Report No. 17303. January 20.
------- 1998a. Project Appraisal Document for a Basic Education Development (PAREIB) Project. Report
No. 17535-ME.
--------- 1999. Poverty Assessment for Mexico.
2001. Indigenous Peoples, Ethnic Identity and Poverty in Mexico Urban Profile: An Exploratory
Study. Green Cover. Report No. 22054-ME. June 12.
--------- 2001 a. Mexico: Basic Education Development Phase II, Summary Risk Assessment Report on
Financial Management. December 3.
C. Evaluation Studies
Centro de Estudios Educativos. 1994. "Evaluaci6n del Impacto y Efectividad de Costos del Programa para
Abatir el Rezago Educativo (PARE)". Informe Ejecutivo.
--------- 1996. "Principales Resultados y Recomendaciones de la Evaluaci6n del PARE". February 2.
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura, Gobiemo del Estado de Veracruz 2000. CD/SICORE/Sistema de
Consulta de Resultados de Evaluaci6n, Aprovechamiento Escolar, Version 1.0.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica (SEP). n.d. Contribuci6n De La Direcci6n General De Evaluaci6n De La
SEP A La Mejoria De La Calidad De La Educaci6n Basica Mexicana.
--------- 1999. "Los Resultados Academicos en los Estados PARE, una comparaci6n en el tiempo".
October.
--------- n.d. Debilidades Y Fortalezas En Habilidad Verbal, Matematica Y Para El Razonamiento
Abstracto Que Presentan Los Alumnos Egresados De Educaci6n Primaria En El Estado De Tlaxcala.
--------- n.d. Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n, Visi6n Estrategica y Objetivos Deseables de los Organismos
Responsables.
--------- n.d. Memoria del quehacer educativo I 1995-2000, "Hacia una cultura de la evaluaci6n
1994-2000".
--------- n.d. Presentaci6n Grafica Minidisc. Subdirecci6n de Evaluaci6n e Informaci6n Educativa, Sistema
Integral de Informacion Educativa, SCE Colima.
------- n.d. Taller Nacional de Analisis de Resultados, Compilaci6n de los Informes Finales, Ciudad de
Mexico. Subsecretaria de Planeacion y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n, Direccion de
Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo, Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa.
--------- 1996-2000. Database. Test Scores on EVEP from a National Sample of Indigenous Sixth Grade
Students.
--------- 2000a. Aspectos De Las Escuelas Puiblicas Mexicanas Exitosas, Encontrados A Partir De
Evaluaciones Cualitativas. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y
Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. December.
-40 -



--- 2000b. C6mo transformar las escuelas?: Lecciones desde la gesti6n escolar y la practica
pedag6gica, Segundo estudio/diplomado de la vertiente de seguimiento del programa de evaluaci6n de
la calidad de la educaci6n primaria, Reporte Final, Aguascalientes, Baja California, Campeche,
Coahuila, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Nayarit, Puebla, Queretaro, Tlaxcala, Tamaulipas,
Yucatan, Zacatecas. Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n.
October.
--------- 2000c. Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n Primaria, Vertiente de Seguimiento, Estudio Cualitativo,
Informe Final, Estado I-Colima, Estado 2-Chihuahua, Estado 3-Durango, Estado 4-Guanajuato,
Estado 5-Quintana Roo, Estado 6-San Luis Potosi, Estado 7-Sinaloa, Estado 8-Sonora, Estado
9-Tabasco, Estado 10-Veracruz. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa.
D. Others
Centro de Investigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados (Cinvestav). 1996. February.
CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo). 1994. Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera del CONAFE y
a Nivel Estatal. Lineamientos Para La Presentaci6n, Informaci6n Financiera Por Parte De Las
Unidades Estatales De Programas Compensatorios. January.
--------- (1996-2000). Database. Indigenous Schools Receiving CONAFE Support.
--------- 1997a. "Esquema Metodol6gico de Focalizaci6n e Integralidad desarrollado en el Programa para
Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y BAsica PAREIB."
--------- 1997b. "Las Practicas Escolares y Docentes- en las Escuelas Multigrado de la Educaci6n
Primaria".
--------- 1997c. "Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica - PAREIB". Sumario
Propuestas Estatales.
--------- 1997d. Proyecto: Diagn6stico y Actualizaci6n de Sistemas de Trabajo y Diseino del Programa
Estatal de Fortalecimiento Institucional -Propuesta Tecnica. CENCADE Quintana Roo / Unidad
Coordinadora Estatal para Abatir el Rezago Educativo del Estado de Q.R. January.
--------- 1998 . "Evaluaci6n del Aprendizaje en la Educaci6n Basica - Antecedentes y Resultados" January
23.
-------- 1998b. "Normas para asignar el Reconocimiento al Desempeiio Docente a Escuelas Multigrado de
Educaci6n Primaria General e Indigena."
--------- 1998c. "Propuesta para la Reestructuraci6n del Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n
Inicial y Basica (PAREIB)". March.
--------- 1998d. Sistema De Gesti6n Financiera Del CONAFE Y A Nivel Estatal, Esquema De Operaci6n
De Los Programas Compensatorios. May.
-------- 1998e. Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera del CONAFE y a Nivel Estatal, Mecanismo de Operaci6n
Financiera De Proyectos Financiados Por Organismos Multilaterales. April.
-------- 1998f. "Subcomponente 1.2.1. Proyecto Escolar: Una Estrategia para Transformar Las Escuelas"
March.
--------- 1998g. "Subcomponente 11.1 Consolidaci6n de los Sistemas Estatales de Evaluaci6n Educativa".
March.
--------- 1998h. "Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para Nifios
Jornaleros Agricolas Migrantes". March.
--------- 1998i. "Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para Poblaci6n
de Grupo de Edad 9-14 de Zonas Urbanas." March.
--------- 1999. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena, Didactica Bilingiue, Oralidad en Lengua Materna,
Manual Del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. August.
--------- 2000a. Acciones Bajo los Subcomponentes de Capacitaci6n Gerencial y Asistencia Tecnica.
Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias basicas, El trabajo en el aula,
Manual del Maestro, Primaria General. 1998,1999 y 2000 (Resumen Ejecutivo). August 19.
- 41 -



---- 2000b. Acciones y metas 98-2000 del Subcomponente I. 1.- Mejoramiento de la Calidad De Los
Servicios De Educaci6n Inicial Y Basica. Compromisos del PAD y Avance De Acciones Y Metas.
August.
--------- 2000c. Analisis Comparativo De Indicadores Educativos Entre Escuelas Primarias Atendidas Por
Acciones Compensatorias Versus Escuelas Primarias No Atendidas, Contrastaci6n con La Media
Estatal Y Media Nacional, PARE/PAREB. June.
--------- 2000d. Avance de la Ejecucion Fisica, Metas Acumuladas desde el inicio del proyecto hasta el 31
de Octubre 2000, PAREIB. Programas Compensatorios. November.
-------- 2000e. Avances del Modelo De Proyectos. Coordinaci6n de Programas Compensatorios,
Subdirecci6n De Contenidos, Metodos y Materiales. November.
------ 2000g. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena, Didactica Bilingiue, Alfabetizaci6n en Lengua
Matema, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. March.
--------- 2000h. Didactica Bilingiue, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena, Lectoescritura en Lengua
Matema. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena. October.
--------- 2000i. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las Competencias Basicas, El Trabajo en el
Aula, Bitacora de Clases. August.
---------- 2000j. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias Basicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. September.
--------- 2000k. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias Basicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Supervisor, Primaria General. September.
--------- 20001. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias Basicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Supervisor, Primaria Indigena. September.
--------- 2000m. Equidad y Calidad en la Educaci6n Basica, la experiencia del CONAFE y la
Telesecundaria en Mexico. November.
--- 2000n. Focalizaci6n del Universo de Atenci6n Compensatoria. Documento preparado para la
UCE's Direcci6n de planeaci6n CONAFE. Validaci6n de los Datos Contenidos En El Universo De
Atenci6n Focalizado De Cada Entidad Federativa. October 27.
--------- 2000o. "Indices de Permanencia y Rotaci6n de Docentes Incentivados en el Estado de Hidalgo,
Chiapas, Guerrero, Oaxaca, Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Puebla, San Luis
Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz, Yucatan". February.
--------- 2000p. Informe de Actividades PAREB 1999. Programas Compensatorios. February.
--------- 2000u. Inicio de cursos 2000-2001, Localidades con 2,500 habitantes o menos, datos obtenidos del
catalogo de centros de trabajo de inicio de cursos 2000-2001. Educaci6n primaria, educaci6n primaria
rural /urbana.   Republica Mexicana, ciclo escolar 2001-2002.
--------- 2000v. Intervenci6n educativa con nifias y nifios indigenas que asisten a escuelas primarias
generales. Experiencias de los estados de Nuevo Le6n y Guanajuato. August.
---------- 2000w. La Accion Compensatoria, Resultados desagregados de indicadores educativos, serie
hist6rica, Total PARE, Chiapas, Guerrero e Hidalgo. November.
---------- 2000x. La Acci6n Compensatoria, Resultados desagregados de indicadores educativos, serie
hist6rica, Total PAREB, Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, SLP,
Tabasco, Veracruz y Yucatan. November.
--------- 2000y. La Educacion Inicial dentro de los Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 2000ab. Lineamientos Para El Otorgamiento De Recursos Financieros, Gastos A Comprobar En
Oficinas Centrales. Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera del CONAFE y a nivel estatal. June.
--------- 2000ac. Memoria de la Gesti6n 1995-2000. October.
--------- 2000ad. Metas Acumuladas desde la reestructuraci6n del proyecto hasta el 31 de octubre del 2000
/ PAREB. Programas Compensatorios. November.
--------- 2000ae. Metas POA 2001. Programas Compensatorios. November.
--------- 2000af. Metas y Logros de Ejecuci6n PAREB, Reestructuraci6n de los Proyectos PAREB y
-42-



PRODEI, Metas de Ejecuci6n del programa hasta 2001. Programas Compensatorios, Subdirecci6n de
Informaci6n y Seguimiento. June.
------ 2000an. Proyecto de Modernizaci6n De La Supervisi6n Escolar En Primaria Rural. Estados
Unidos Mexicanos. Estadistica Basica del Sistema Educativo, Preescolar Y Primaria, Fin De Cursos
1999 - 2000, medios urbano y rural. February.
--------- 2000ao. Resultados del ejercicio de analisis y reflexi6n sobre los procesos, procedimientos, logros,
debilidades  y  propuestas  para  eficientar  y  mejorar  el quehacer institucional de  la
UCE-PAREB-GUERRERO. Gobiemo del Estado Libre y Soberano de Guerrero, Unidad
Coordinadora Estatal del PAREB, Chilpancingo, Guerrero. October.
--------- 2001c. Ciclo escolar 2001-2002. PAREB, Componente Recursos Didacticos, Auxiliares
Didacticos para Escuela Primaria. Unidad de Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 2001e. Descripci6n De Acciones Compensatorias A Realizar En Los Pr6ximos Tres Anios Por
Subcomponente. Niveles Para La Difusi6n Y Uso De Resultados De Evaluaci6n En Las Entidades.
DEI/174/01. July.
--------- 2001f. Indicadores Educativos PAREB, Campeche, Chiapas, Durango, Guanajuato, Guerrero,
Hidalgo, Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz, Yucatan.
February.
--------- 2001g. Matricula. Maestros Y Escuelas De La Educaci6n Bisica Por Tipo De Servicio
(1990-2001). May.
--------- 2001h. Metas Acumuladas desde la reestructuraci6n del proyecto hasta el 31 de diciembre del
2000, PAREB. February.
--------- 2001 p. Propuesta de Capacitaci6n con Banco Mundial. February.
--------- 2001t. "Reconocimiento al Desempeiio Docente, Ejercicio Fiscal 2001 y Ciclo Escolar
2000-2001 ". May.
--------- 2001v. Utiles Escolares. Cuadro Comparativo General. Costos promedios De Granel Y Paquete.
Unidad de Programas Compensatorios. July.
--------- n.d. CREFAL, Programa de Apoyo a la Gesti6n Escolar (AGE), Resultados de la Investigaci6n
sobre el Impacto en el Involucramiento de los Padres de Familia hacia la Educaci6n de sus Hijos.
--------- n.d. Evaluaci6n del PAREB - Durango (CD-ROM) presentaci6n en PowerPoint y Evaluaci6n
Interestatal del PAREB. Durango, Campeche- (archivo).
Educaci6n y Prospectiva, S.C. 1998. "Informe Final del Estudio sobre la Atenci6n a la Demanda Social de
Educaci6n Basica en las Entidades Federativas". March 6.
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia, y Informatica (2001). A71 Censo General de Poblaci6n y
Vivienda. Mexico.
Instituto Nacional Indigenista (1997). "Perfil Indigena de Mexico.". <<http://www.ini.gob.mx.>>
--------- 2000. Estado del desarrollo econ6mico y social de los pueblos indigenas de Mexico. Mexico.
Instituto Tecnol6gico Forestal. 2001. Programa de Tecnologia de la Madera: Construcci6n de Aulas de
Madera, El Salto. Durango. May.
Gobiemo Constitucional del Estado de Oaxaca. n.d. Evaluaci6n y Seguimiento del Aprendizaje de
Alumnos de Tele-secundarias. Instituto Estatal de Educaci6n Piiblica de Oaxaca. Coordinaci6n
General de Planeaci6n Educativa, Subdirecci6n de Evaluaci6n, Departamento de Evaluaci6n.
Quintanilla, Amelia Rebeca de los Santos (2001). Doctoral Thesis. "Factores que Indicen en el
Rendimiento Escolar en Educaci6n Prirnaria Indigena en la Republica Mexicana." Universidad
Complutense de Madrid.
Schmelkes, Sylvia (2001). "Education and Indian Peoples in Mexico: An Example of Policy Failure." In
Reimers, Fernando (Ed.). Unequal Schools, Unequal Chances: The Challenges to Equal Opportunity
in the Americas, Harvard.
SEP (Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica). 1997. Informe de Curso de Planeaci6n Estrategica, Instituto
Estatal de Educaci6n Puiblica de Oaxaca IEEPO. CENCADE Oaxaca. June 24-28.
-43 -



--------- 1997a. Informe de Resultados y Productos de] Proyecto: Capacitaci6n para la Gerencia Educativa
1996-1998. CENCADE/TABASCO - Secretaria de Educaci6n del Estado de Tabasco. September.
1997b. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Diagn6stico y Actualizaci6n de Sistemas
de Trabajo y Diseno del Programa Estatal de Fortalecimiento Institucional. CENCADE/COLIMA -
Secretaria de Educaci6n, Cultura y Deporte del Gobiemo del Estado de Colima. May 7.
-------- 1997c. Infonne de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Diagn6stico y Actualizaci6n de Sistemas
de Trabajo y Disefio del Programa Estatal de Fortalecimiento Institucional. CENCADE Sonora /
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura del Gobierno del Estado de Sonora. May 7.
- -1997d. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Servicios de Consultoria Especializada
para la Implementaci6n del Programa para la Gerencia Educativa 1997-1998, la. Fase Propuesta
Tecnica, Mexico, D.F. CENCADE Guerrero / Secretaria de Educaci6n Guerrero. February.
-------- 1997e. "Programa de Desarrollo Educativo 1995-2000". Poder Ejecutivo Federal. Secretaria de
Educaci6n Publica (SEP), Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de
Evaluaci6n Direcci6n de Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo.
-------- 1998a. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Mejoramiento de Sistemas de Trabajo
Dentro del Programa de Capacitacion para la Gerencia Educativa, Anexo: Documentacion de Procesos
mejorados. Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica del Estado de Colima. May.
-------- 1998b. Tomo I Colima, Informe De Resultados Y Productos Del Proyecto: Mejoramiento Del
Sistema De Trabajo Dentro Del Programa De Capacitaci6n Para La Gerencia Educativa. Secretaria de
Educaci6n Puiblica del Estado de Colima. May.
--------- 2000a. Distribuci6n De Los Planteles Publicos De Educacion Primaria Y Secundaria, Seguin El
Nivel De Aciertos De Sus Alumnos En Los Examenes De Carrera Magisterial. Subsecretaria de
Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. August.
--------- 2000b. Estudio Cualitativo, Las Escuelas Primarias Rurales Y Los Apoyos De Los Programas
Compensatorios: Reporte Final Del Primer Estudio/Diplomado Sobre Bases Metodol6gicas De
Investigaci6n Cualitativa. Sistema Nacional de Evaluacion Educativa, Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n
Primaria, Vertiente de Seguimiento.
--------- 2000c. Informe Proyecto De Intervenci6n Educativa Con Nifias Y Ninios Indigenas Que Asisten A
Escuelas Generales Y Proyecto De Intervenci6n Educativa Con Nii'as Y Ninios Indigenas Que Asisten
A Escuelas Primarias Generales En El Estado De Nuevo Le6n. Subsecretaria de Educaci6n Basica y
Normal, Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Indigena. October.
--------- 2000d. "Programa Ninio Creativo: Una Experiencia Multigrado". Subdirecci6n de Educaci6n
Primaria, Estado de Durango.
--------- 2000g. Resultados de Estudios EtnogrAficos en Educaci6n Primaria, Estrategia de Difusi6n.
SecTetaria de Educaci6n y Cultura, Gobierno del Estado Veracmz-Llave. November.
------- 2001. "Evaluaci6n De La Educaci6n Preescolar Inicial No Escolarizada, Primaria Y Secundaria".
Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Direcci6n General De Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n De
Evaluacion Del Proceso Educativo. July.
E. General Studies and Reports
Diario Oficial. 2001. "Reglas de Operacion e Indicadores de Gesti6n y Evaluaci6n del Programa de
Escuelas de Calidad". Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica. April 3.
Secretaria De Educaci6n, Cultura y Bienestar Social, Estado de Mexico. 2000. Plan Estrategico Rector.
November.
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura, Gobierno del Estado de Veracruz-Llave. n.d. SICORE Manual de
Instalaci6n y Operaci6n, Versi6n 1.0, Aprovechamiento Escolar.
--------- 2000. CD/SISAR - Sistema de Administraci6n de Reactivos, Version para Primarias, Versi6n 1.0.
-------- n.d. SISAR, Manual de Instalaci6n y Operaci6n, versi6n 1.0, Coordinaci6n Estatal de Evaluaci6n.
--------- 1999. Informe de Labores 1998-1999. November.
-44 -



--------- 2000d. Inforne de Labores 1999-2000. November.
------- 2000e. Informe de los avances de: Planeaci6n Territorial. Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n
Programaci6n y Presupuesto (DGPPP). August.
--------- 2000f. Programa para la Instalaci6n y Fortalecimiento de las Areas Estatales de Evaluaci6n,
Balance General del Establecimiento y Operaci6n. Direccion General de Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n de
Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo, Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa. October.
--------- 2001. Perfil de la Educaci6n en Mexico. February.
--------- 2001 a. Programa Nacional de Educaci6n 2001 - 2006.
Rodolfo Ramirez Raymundo. n.d. Por Una Nueva Escuela Publica.
Victor Manuel Velasquez Castanieda. n.d. "La Transformaci6n de la gesti6n escolar: factor clave para
mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n".
* Including electronic files
-45 -









IMAGING
Report No.:         24348
Type:     ICR



