Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3722 ME
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Second Primary Education Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                            Dated June 10, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3722 ME
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
(the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received from the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) a letter dated March 4, 1994, which letter describes the
Guarantor's policies and strategies (the Program) with respect to the public
primary education sector in Mexico;
      (B)   the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
Page  2
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CAPFCE" means the Guarantor's Administrative Committee for the
Federal School Construction Program (Comite Administrador del Programa
Federal de Construccion de Escuelas);
      (b)   "CONAFE" means the Guarantor's National Council for Educational
Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo);
      (c)   "COPLADE" means the State Committee for Planning and Development
(Comite de Planificacion y Desarrollo Estatal) of each of the Project
States;
      (d)   "CTG" means a SEP Central Technical Group (Grupo Tecnico a Nivel
Central) staffed on a full-time basis by technical staff members of SEP's
General Directorate for Indigenous Education (Direccion General de Educacion
Indigena) and General Directorate for Primary Education (Direccion General
de Educacion Primaria);
      (e)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith
from the Guarantor to the Bank, containing the Annexes referred to
throughout this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement;
      (f)   "Infrastructure Operational Manual" means the manual (Manual de
Procedimientos para la Construccion, Rehabilitacion y Mantenimiento de
Espacios Educativos), prepared by CONAFE in consultation with CAPFCE,
containing, inter alia, the criteria pursuant to which Project Schools shall
be selected for purposes of Part B.6 (a) and (b) of the Project;
      (g)   "Maintenance Handbook" means the handbook (Manual de
Mantenimiento), prepared by CONAFE, to assist Project State municipalities
in carrying out maintenance under Part B.6 (b) of the Project;
      (h)   "PARE Project" means the Primary Education Project partially
financed with the proceeds of Bank loan 3407-ME pursuant to the October 14,
1991 loan and guarantee agreements between the Bank and the Borrower and
between the Bank and the Guarantor, respectively;
      (i)   "Participation Agreement" means an agreement (Convenio de
Coordinacion) entered into between the Guarantor and a State pursuant to
Sections 3.06 or 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement (in the case of a
Participation Agreement with the State of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero or
Hidalgo, such Participation Agreement may take the form of an annex to an
already existing agreement between such State and the Guarantor);
      (j)   "PCU" means CONAFE's Project Coordination Unit (Unidad
Coordinadora Central) referred to in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee
Agreement;
Page  3
      (k)   "Project School" means a public primary (grades 1-6) school
existing (or to be constructed under Part B.6 of the Project) in a Project
State municipality listed in Annex A of the imple- mentation Letter, which
school may not be one administered by CONAFE;
      (l)   "Project State" means one of the following States:  Campeche,
Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Puebla, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco,
Veracruz and Yucatan;
      (m)   "Reading Corner Program" means SEP's program for designing,
preparing and distributing library books to public schools (Programa de
Rincones de Lectura);
      (n)   "School Council" means any one of the Social Participation
School Councils (Consejos Escolares de Participacion Social), established
under the Guarantor's 1993 General Education Law (Ley General de Educacion,
published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacion (Official
Gazette) on July 13, 1993) for a particular Project School;
      (o)   "SEE" means a State's Education Secretariat (Secretaria Estatal
de Educacion) or equivalent;
      (p)   "Self-Help Construction Handbook" means the handbook (Manual de
Construccion Comunitaria), prepared by CONAFE, to assist Project State
municipalities in carrying out construction, expansion or rehabilitation
activities under Part B.6 (b) of the Project;
      (q)   "SEP" means the Guarantor's Public Education Secretariat
(Secretaria de Educacion Publica);
      (r)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Finance and Public Credit
Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
      (s)   "SOPE" means a Project State's Public Works Secretariat
(Secretaria de Obras Publicas del Estado) or equivalent;
      (t)   "SPCU" means an SEE's State Project Coordination Unit (Unidad
Coordinadora Estatal) referred to in Section 3.06 (h) of the Guarantee
Agreement;
      (u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (v)   "State" means any one of the states that constitute the United
Mexican States;
      (w)   "STG" means a Project State SEE State Technical Group (Grupo
Tecnico a Nivel Estatal) staffed on a full-time basis by technical staff
members of such SEE's General Directorate for Indigenous Education
(Direccion General de Educacion Indigena) or equivalent and General
Directorate for Primary Education (Direccion General de Educacion Primaria)
or equivalent; and
      (x)   "TAC" means a technical advisory committee referred to in
Sections 3.06 (h) or 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
four hundred twelve million Dollars ($412,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
Page  4
of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de Mexico on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
            of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
Page  5
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms
of, contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satis- factory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan for use by the Guarantor, CONAFE, CAPFCE and the
Project States; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of
such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account
of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any
provision of such contractual arrangements. The Borrower shall exercise its
rights under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual and midterm
reviews referred to in Section 3.19 (b) and (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in
connection with the execution of the Project.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
                  procedures consistently applied, by independent and
                  qualified auditors;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested;
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of
                  the Special Account; and
           (iv)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required
by the Guarantor to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section
3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  6
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the Guarantor's General Education Law, referred to in
Section 1.02 (n) of this Agreement, as amended to the date of this
Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the
carrying out of the Project; and
      (b)   that any State has failed to perform any of its obligations
under a Participation Agreement to which it is a party, in which case the
Bank may, after consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, only suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred either: (i)
by the State in question or any municipality thereof; and/or (ii) for
purposes of benefitting the public primary education sector of that State
specifically.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the suspension referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this
Agreement shall have been in effect for all Project States and the States
of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Hidalgo and Guerrero simultaneously for a continuous
period of 90 days; and
      (b)   that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement
shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that CONAFE shall have completed the Infrastructure Operational
Manual, the Self-Help Construction Handbook and the Maintenance Handbook,
all satisfactory to the Bank;
      (b)   that the PCU and four SPCUs (one for each of the Project States
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section) are fully operational and
staffed as set forth in Sections 3.06 (h) (i) and 3.09 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement;
      (c)   that fully executed Participation Agreements, one for each of
four different Project States and all satisfactory to the Bank, shall have
been presented to the Bank; and
      (d)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement shall have been entered into.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that, on behalf of each of the parties to the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, such contractual
arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered by each such party and are legally binding upon each such party
in accordance with their terms; and
      (b)   that, on behalf of each of the parties to each Participation
Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, such
Participation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered by each such party and is legally binding upon each
such party in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date September 12, 1994 is hereby specified for the
Page  7
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Direccion Internacional
            Torre IV, piso 8
            Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City               Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                        Regional Vice President
                        Latin America and the Caribbean
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        By /s/ Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
                        Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated        % of
                                 (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)       Civil works under        32,000,000      50%
          Parts B.6 (a), C.7
          and C.9 of the Project
(2)       Civil works under        24,000,000       50%
          Part B.6 (b) of the
          Project (except
          as covered under
          Category (11)
          below)
(3)       Equipment and fur-        8,000,000       100% of foreign
          niture (excluding                         expenditures and
          vehicles and except                       90% of local
          as covered under                          expenditures
          Categories (4), (5)
          and (8) below)
(4)       Didactic materials       70,000,000       90%
          (durable goods and
          books) under Parts
          B.1, B.2, B.4 and
          B.5 of the Project
(5)      Student educational       50,000,000        75% until
    packages (non-                                   withdrawals under
    durable goods) under                             this Category
    Part B.3 of the                                  have reached an
    Project                                          aggregate amount
                                                     equivalent to
                                                     $25,000,000; 50%
                                                     until withdrawals
                                                     under this Cate-
                                                     gory have reached
                                                     an aggregate amount
                                                     equivalent to
                                                     $45,000,000; and
                                                     25% thereafter
(6)      Teacher training        95,000,000         100%
    under Part A.1
    of the Project
(7)      Management training      1,800,000         100%
    under Part C.1
    of the Project
(8)      Training materials       1,700,000         100%
    under Part A.2 of
    the Project
(9)      Technical                6,700,000         100%
    assistance and
    studies
(10)     Teacher incentives      55,300,000         75% until with-
    and supervisor                                  drawals under
    support payments                                this Category
    under Parts C.6                                 have reached an
    and C.8 (a) of                                  aggregate amount
Page  9
    the Project                                     equivalent to
                                                    $20,000,000; 50%
                                                    until withdrawals
                                                    under this Cate-
                                                    gory have reached
                                                    an aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $50,000,000; and
                                                    25% thereafter
(11)     Incremental             27,500,000         75% until
    operating costs                                 withdrawals under
                                                    this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $15,000,000; 50%
                                                    until withdrawals
                                                    under this Cate-
                                                    gory have reached
                                                    an aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $25,000,000; and
                                                    25% thereafter
(12)      Unallocated              40,000,000
                                  ___________
          TOTAL                   412,000,000
                                  ===========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor;
    (c)   the terms "teacher training" and "management training" include,
inter alia, per diems for trainees and trainers; and
    (d)   the term "incremental operating costs" means PCU and SPCU
operational, maintenance, travel and per diem costs, that would not have
been incurred absent the Project, and includes salaries only: (i) for
services provided by PCU staff over and above those already being provided
for the PARE Project; and (ii) for SPCU staff at or above the Director level
referred to in Section 3.06 (h) (i) of the Guarantee Agreement.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) through (11) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after October 31, 1993; (b) payments made for
expenditures made by or for the benefit of a Project State, the State of
Chiapas, the State of Oaxaca, the State of Guerrero, the State of Hidalgo
or any municipality or School Council within any such State, if: (i) such
State has not entered into a Participation Agreement satisfactory to the
Bank and accompanied by legal opinions meeting the same requirements as set
forth for the legal opinions referred to in Section 6.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and (ii) such State (in the case of a Project State) does not
have a fully operational SPCU and TAC (staffed as set forth in Section 3.06
(h) (i) and (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement); and (c) payments made for
expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) until terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been prepared for technical supervision of
works under the Project.
4.        The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures not subject to
Page  10
contract (such as incentives under Category (10)) and for expenditures
(other than for works contracts exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent per
contract, for goods contracts exceeding $350,000 equivalent per contract,
for contracts with individual consultants exceeding or equal to $50,000
equivalent per contract and for contracts with consulting firms exceeding
or equal to $100,000 equivalent per contract) under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The principal objective of the Project is to assist in improving the
quality and efficiency of public primary education in the Project States so
as to raise such quality and efficiency to levels closer to the Mexican
national average. A subsidiary objective of the Project is to reinforce
management capacity within the public primary education sector of four other
States (Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero and Hidalgo).
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Human Resources Development
1.  Provision, to school administrators (principals, supervisors and
assistant supervisors) and primary school teachers serving the Project
Schools, of in-service training with respect to pedagogical counseling,
educational resource use, educational problem pre- vention, remedial
education, multigrade class teaching techniques, written language,
mathematics, bilingualism in indigenous education, use of indigenous
language texts and materials, Spanish as a second language and selected
Project State-specific topics.
2.  Development, printing, distribution and use of training materials (study
guides, trainer's manuals, bibliographies, evaluation instruments,
anthologies of selected readings) and promotional materials (such as
posters) in support of the training provided under Part A.1 of the Project.
Part B:   Educational Material Resources
1.  Distribution to each Project School of a teaching materials package
consisting of durable goods, serving a pedagogical purpose, such as maps,
charts, posters, anatomic models and, additionally for Project Schools with
electricity, a radio, a tape recorder, audio cassettes and an overhead
projector or other piece of audiovisual equipment.
2.  Distribution to each classroom of each Project School of a grade-
specific (or multigrade-specific if a classroom is used simultaneously by
students from more than one grade) teaching materials package consisting of
durable goods, serving a pedagogical purpose, such as rulers, dictionaries,
games, geometric solids and chalkboards.
3.  Distribution to each student of each Project School of an educational
materials package (one per student per year) consisting of non-durable goods
such as notebooks, pencils and crayons.
4.  Production and distribution, to each Project School, of a package of
library books in support of the Reading Corner Program (such package to: (a)
consist of at least 200 books for Project Schools with five or less
classrooms; (b) consist of at least 350 books for Project Schools with six
or more classrooms; and (c) include indigenous language books in the case
of Project Schools that serve indigenous language speakers), as well as of
a supple- mentary package of at least 15 educational reference books for
teacher self-training and at least 30 region-specific content books for
student use.
5.  Design and production of indigenous language textbooks for each of the
six primary school grades (and related student workbooks and teacher
guidebooks), written in the 17 indigenous languages (Maya and one of its
variants, Huasteco and one of its variants, Totonaco and one of its
variants, Nahuatl and three of its variants, Tepehuano, Huichol, Purepecha,
Mazahua, Mexicanero, Chontal and Chol) spoken by the major ethnic groups in
Page  11
the Project States, and provision of these items to Project Schools that
serve the corresponding ethnic groups.
6.  (a)   Construction, rehabilitation and/or expansion of Project Schools
by federal authorities; (b) construction, rehabilitation, expansion and/or
maintenance of Project Schools by Project State municipal authorities
(including Project School furniture maintenance); (c) provision of furniture
for such newly constructed, rehabilitated or expanded Project Schools; and
(d) provision of adequate staff for such newly constructed, rehabilitated
or expanded Project Schools.
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening
1.  Provision of local and/or overseas management training to high-level
officials in the public primary education sector of the Project States and
the States of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero and Hidalgo, particularly with
respect to the following topics:  education quality and efficiency;
methodologies for policy analysis and sector performance assessment;
education sector reform options; the relationship among education, work and
employment; education financing; resource allocation modelling; strategic
use of data collected from education management information systems;
evaluation and measurement of educational achievement; decentralization of
education administration; curriculum reform; and non-Spanish language
instruction.
2.  Strengthening of CONAFE's institutional capacity through: (a)
establishment and operation of an integrated management information system
to be used at both federal and State levels; and (b) esta- blishment and
operation of a process evaluation system to assess the quality and short-
term effects of Project components.
3.  Testing of the cognitive achievement of a sample of public primary
education students from the Project States.
4.  Carrying out of the following studies: (a) a preschool education study
to assess the relevance, efficiency and effec- tiveness of public preschool
education programs in Mexico and recommend strategies for their improvement;
(b) a secondary education study to examine: (i) major issues facing
secondary education; (ii) the causes of secondary education dropout rates;
(iii) the working conditions of professionals in the sector; (iv) the
characteristics that make a secondary school effective; and (v) the
financial implications of extending mandatory basic education from six
grades to nine grades; (c) an environmental education study to devise
strategies on how to systematize environmental education in Mexico so as to
make it more relevant for current needs; and (d) a science education study
to test different science education models implemented on a pilot basis in
a sample of 270 Project Schools (of which 90 would serve as a control
group).
5.  Implementation of a mass-media campaign to promote Project activities
and benefits among the public.
6.  Provision of monthly work incentives, equal to and in addition to their
base salary, to teachers working in Project Schools in extremely poor and
isolated rural areas so as to promote improvement in their professional
performance.
7.  Construction, furnishing and equipping of at least 600 offices for
public primary school supervisors (and their sector chiefs), to be located
within easy access of the Project Schools to be supervised.
8.  (a)   Provision of quarterly travel incentives (equivalent to
approximately $350 per supervisor per quarter and approximately $190 per
sector chief per quarter) to at least 926 supervisors and 160 sector chiefs
to defray travel expenses incurred by such personnel in carrying out a
regular program of Project School supervision visits; and (b) provision of
at least 80 vehicles to be used exclusively by such supervisors and sector
chiefs to carry out said supervision visits.
9.  Construction of at least 61 regional warehouses, and provision of
vehicles, in support of the improvement of the existing system for the
distribution to public primary schools of textbooks, educational materials
Page  12
and other goods (such as furniture and equipment).
10.       Provision of technical assistance, vehicles, equipment and
incremental operating cost financing to support the Project administration
activities of the PCU and the SPCUs.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning October 1, 1999
    through April 1, 2009                20,600,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
Page  13
More than 11 years but not                     0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:         International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the
successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by
a predisclosed correction factor acceptable to the Bank. Such an increase
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.        In the procurement of works in accordance with Part A of this
Section, bidding documents prepared by the Guarantor, if consistent with the
Guidelines and otherwise satisfactory to the Bank, shall be used until the
Bank issues relevant standard bidding documents for Mexico acceptable to the
Guarantor. At the time of such issuance and thereafter, only said relevant
standard bidding documents (with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project) shall be
used.
3.        In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A of this
Section, the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for
the purposes of the Project, shall be used; provided, however, that for any
such procurement for which the invitation to bid ("convocatoria") is dated
prior to February 1, 1994, standard bidding documents based on the so-called
"Cuernavaca Documents" with such changes as may be agreed by the Bank and
the Guarantor for each contract shall be used.
4.        To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more each,
and contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more each.
Part B:         Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 of this Section, goods manufactured in Mexico may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:         Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $10,000,000
equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $43,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  Such procurement shall take place
using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.        Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $350,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$23,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Such procurement shall take place using standard
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
3.        Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$30,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
Page  14
contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.        Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$22,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
5.        Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$68,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded after direct
negotiations with contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank and only to the extent allowed by paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Such procedures shall, inter alia, require that contract prices be
consistent with the regionalized reference prices determined by the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement. If such
contractors are School Councils, the Bank shall not finance the labor costs
of the works undertaken by such contractors.
6.        Books and printed materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $6,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank and only to the extent allowed by paragraph 3.5 of
the Guidelines.
Part D:         Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract covered by
Part A of this Section; (ii) the first three contracts, each for a separate
Project State, covered by Part C.1 of this Section; (iii) the first contract
covered by Part C.2 of this Section and procured pursuant to either Part B.6
(c), C.7 or C.10 of the Project; (iv) the first contract covered by Part C.2
of this Section and procured pursuant to either Part B.1, B.2, B.4 or B.5
of the Project; (v) the first contract covered by Part C.2 of this Section
and procured pursuant to Part B.3 of the Project; (vi) the first three
contracts (valued at or above $50,000 equivalent), each for a separate
Project State, covered by Part C.3 of this Section and procured pursuant to
Part B.6 (a) of the Project; (vii) the first three contracts (valued at or
above $50,000 equivalent), each for a separate Project State, covered by
Part C.3 of this Section and procured pursuant to Part B.6 (b) of the
Project; (viii) the first contract (valued at or above $50,000 equivalent)
covered by Part C.4 of this Section and procured pursuant to either Part B.6
(c), C.7 or C.10 of the Project; (ix) the first contract covered by Part C.4
of this Section and procured pursuant to either Part B.1, B.2, B.4 or B.5
of the Project; and (x) the first contract covered by Part C.4 of this
Section and procured pursuant to Part B.3 of the Project. Where payments for
any such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
Page  15
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.        In order to assist the Guarantor and/or CONAFE in carrying out the
Project, the Guarantor shall employ and/or cause CONAFE to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such consultants shall be employed under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms agreed with the Bank shall be used.
2.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts for consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each, or to contracts for individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments
of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments
of contracts for consulting firms estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
above or for individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments of contracts for consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above or for individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (11)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
Page  16
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  17
