Page  1
August 21, 1998
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director Internacional 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. 
México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. 
México 
Re:    Loan 3722-ME (Second Primary Education Project) Amendment to the 
Loan 
Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Implementation Letter 
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) dated June 10, 
1994, as well as to the Guarantee Agreement and Implementation Letter of even date 
therewith between the Bank and the United Mexican States (the Guarantor), all as 
amended and pertaining to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you 
of our agreement to amend further said Loan and Guarantee Agreements and 
Implementation Letter as follows: 
Loan Agreement
1.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as set forth in Attachment A to this amendment letter.
2.
Schedule 1, paragraph 2 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  “the term “training” in Category (6) includes, inter alia, per diems for 
trainees and trainers; and”.
3.
Schedule 2, Part B.5 is hereby amended by replacing the words “for each of the 
six primary school grades” with the words “for each of at least the first three 
primary school grades”.
4.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part A.3 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  “In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A of this Section, 
there shall be used the appropriate Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) issued by the 
Bank with minimum changes, acceptable to the Bank, as necessary to address country- 
and Project-specific issues.  Any such changes shall be introduced only through bid or 
contract data sheets, or through special conditions of contract, and not by 
introducing changes in the standard wording of the Bank’s SBDs.”.
5.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part C.2 is hereby amended by replacing the words “Goods 
estimated” with the words “Goods (except vehicles) estimated”.
6.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part C.4 is hereby amended by replacing the words “Goods 
estimated” with the words “Goods (except vehicles) estimated”.
7.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part C.6 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$18,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$18,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and only to the extent 
allowed by paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.”.
8.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part D.1 (a) is hereby amended by replacing its first 
sentence with the following:  “The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Page  2
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with respect to each contract covered by Part 
A of this Section.”.
9.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part D is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph 3 at 
the end thereof, to read as follows in its entirety:  “Prior to the issuance of any 
invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, a proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank.”.
10.
Schedule 5, paragraph 1 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  “the term “eligible Categories” means all Categories (except “Unallocated”) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;”.
Guarantee Agreement
11.
Section 3.01 (l) is hereby amended by deleting the words “of Oaxaca, Veracruz, 
Chiapas, Puebla, Guerrero, Michoacán, Hidalgo, San Luis Potosí and Guanajuato”.
12.
Section 3.14 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the date “December 31, 1997” 
with the date "December 31, 1998”.
13.
Section 3.14 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the date “December 31, 1998” 
with the date "September 30, 1999”.
14.
Section 3.19 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the date “October 1997” with the 
date "October 1998” and by replacing the date “May 1997” with the date “March 1998”.
Implementation Letter
15.
Annex A of the Implementation Letter is hereby amended by substituting the list 
of municipalities set forth therein with the list set forth in Attachment B hereto.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to 
us.  \0bThis amendment shall enter into effect as of January 1, 1998 upon receipt by the 
Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Olivier Lafourcade 
Director 
Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
Roberto Casillas
Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date: September 14, 1998
Date: September 14, 1998
Page  3
