Page  1
August 19, 1999
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 Plaza Inn, 
Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director 
General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100 México, D.F. México 
Re:
Loan 3722-ME (Second Primary Education Project) Amendment to the 
Loan 
Agreement and Implementation Letter
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), as well as the 
Implementation Letter, each dated June 10, 1994 and as subsequently amended, with 
respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement 
to amend said Loan Agreement and Implementation Letter as indicated below.
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended by replacing the date “December 31, 1999” with 
the date "December 31, 2001”.
2.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as indicated in Attachment A to this letter.
3.
The last sentence of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the date “June 
30, 1999” with the date “June 30, 2001”.
II.
Amendments to the Implementation Letter
4.
Portions of the Implementation Letter are hereby amended as set forth in 
Attachment B to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  The terms of this letter shall enter into effect as of its date first above 
written, upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.  
Consequently, the amendments reflected in the table set forth in Attachment A to this 
letter shall not apply to expenditures covered by Loan proceeds withdrawal requests 
received by the Bank prior to said date first above written; such amendments shall 
therefore only apply to additional expenditures covered by Loan proceeds withdrawal 
requests received by the Bank on or after said date first above written.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Eduardo Velez 
Acting Director, 
Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date: August 19, 1999
Date:  August 19, 1999
