Page  1
March 26, 2001
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
Director Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Mr. Alonso García Tamés
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
03100  México, D.F.
México 
Re:      Loan 3722-ME (Second Primary Education Project) Amendment 
to the Loan Agreement.  Fourth amendment.
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), dated June 10, 
1994 (as amended), with respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to 
inform you our agreement to amend said Loan Agreement as indicated below.
1.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as indicated in Attachment A to this letter.
2.
Part C.2 of Section 1 of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
"Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract or 
per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $23,800,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such 
procurement shall take place using standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  The terms of this letter shall enter into effect as of its date first above 
written, upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.  
Consequently, the amendments reflected in the table set forth in Attachment A to this 
letter shall not apply to expenditures covered by Loan proceeds withdrawal requests 
received by the Bank prior to said date first above written; such amendments shall 
therefore only apply to additional expenditures covered by Loan proceeds withdrawal 
requests received by the Bank on or after said date first above written.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director 
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Alonso García Tamés
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 26. 2001
Date: March 26, 2001
Page  2
