                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2120



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-47440, IBRD-77650)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    FOR THE

        SECOND EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT



                                  March 29, 2012




Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective February 2012)
              Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
               ID Rupiah 1.00 = US$ 0.0001111
                 US$ 1.00 = ID Rupiah 9,000

                        FISCAL YEAR
                   January 01 – December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT        Average Annual Daily Traffic
AMDAL       Environmental Impact Assessment
BAPEDALDA   Provincial Environmental Agency
BAPPEDA     Provincial Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS    National Development Planning Agency
CRO         Community Representative Observer
CTC         Core Team Consultants
DAK         Specific Purpose Grants
DGH         Directorate General of Highways, MPW
EIRTP-1     Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
EIRTP-2     Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FY          Fiscal Year
GoI         Government of Indonesia
IDR         Indonesian Rupiah
IIRMS       Integrated Indonesian Road Management System
Kabupaten   Autonomous Local Government (District)
Kota        Autonomous Local Government (Municipality)
LARAP       Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan
MoF         Ministry of Finance
MoHA        Ministry of Home Affairs
MPW         Ministry of Public Works
MSDI        Management Support for Decentralized Institutions
NPV         Net Present Value
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PMU         Project Management Unit
PPBP        Planning, Programming and Budgeting Procedures
RBRF        Road Board and Road Funds
RDSC        Regional Design and Supervision Consultants
TA          Technical Assistance
TRAMS       Traffic and Road Asset Monitoring System

                  Vice President: Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                Country Director: Stefan G. Koeberle, EACIF
                 Sector Manager: Franz R. Drees-Gross, EASIS
            Project Team Leader: Mitsuyoshi Asada, EASIN
               ICR Team Leader: Mitsuyoshi Asada, EASIN
                                        INDONESIA
                      Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2-a. Outputs by Component .............................................................................. 22
  Annex 2-b. Note on Measurement of Performance Indicator 2a and 2b ...................... 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 48
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                 Second Eastern
Country:             Indonesia              Project Name:        Indonesia Region
                                                                 Transport Project
                                                                 IBRD-47440,IBRD-
Project ID:          P074290                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                 77650
ICR Date:            03/29/2012             ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                                 REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument: SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                 INDONESIA
Original Total
                      USD 200.00M           Disbursed Amount:    USD 188.20M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       USD 193.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Directorate General of Highways, Ministry of Public Works
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                      Revised / Actual
Process          Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                      Date(s)
Concept
                 10/08/2002       Effectiveness:    10/21/2004        10/21/2004
Review:
Appraisal:       03/23/2004       Restructuring(s):                   06/29/2009
                                  Mid-term
Approval:        06/22/2004                         04/04/2008        04/04/2008
                                  Review:
                                  Closing:          06/30/2009        09/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Substantial
Bank Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
                    Moderately                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                    Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Quality of          Moderately         Implementing
                                                           Satisfactory
Supervision:        Satisfactory       Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank        Moderately         Overall Borrower Moderately


                                            i
Performance:           Satisfactory        Performance:        Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                         Indicators                        Rating
Performance                             (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                               None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                         No                                None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                          2
Ports, waterways and shipping                     2
Roads and highways                                92                90
Sub-national government administration            4                 10




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                  14                14
Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                  29                29
development
Other accountability/anti-corruption              14                14
Rural services and infrastructure                 29                29
Urban services and housing for the poor           14                14

E. Bank Staff
Positions               At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:         Pamela Cox                     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:       Stefan G. Koeberle             Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:         Franz R. Drees-Gross           Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:    Mitsuyoshi Asada               Hatim M. Hajj
ICR Team Leader:        Mitsuyoshi Asada
ICR Primary Author:     Mitsuyoshi Asada
                        Dewi Wandansari




                                          ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
A. Improve condition of the strategic road network in order to reduce transport costs and
enhance regional accessibility

  B. Support decentralization of planning and management responsibilities for works on
provincial and kabupaten roads to the respective provincial and kabupaten governments

  C. Increase the efficiency, quality and transparency of works procurement and
implementation

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                         Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                         approval         Target         Completion or
                                         documents)       Values         Target Years
                1a. Percentage reduction in vehicle operating costs on national and
Indicator 1 :
                provincial roads included in the Project.
Value
quantitative or 0%                       11%                             19%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                      09/30/2011
Comments
                Target was exceeded by 72%. The value was calculated for all national
(incl. %
                inter-urban, provincial and urban sub-projects in the Project.
achievement)
                1b. Percentage reduction in vehicle operating costs on kabupaten roads
Indicator 2 :
                included in the Project.
Value
quantitative or 0%                       25%                             39%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                      09/30/2011
Comments
                Target was exceeded by 56%. The value was calculated for all kabupaten
(incl. %
                sub-projects in the Project.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : 1c. Percentage travel time improvements on selected project roads.
Value
quantitative or 0%                       20%                             52%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                      09/30/2011


                                           iii
Comments
                Target was exceeded by 260%. Before/after surveys were undertaken on
(incl. %
                selected roads which have reasonable volume of traffic.
achievement)
                2a. Number of provinces using economic-based priority-setting
Indicator 4 :
                procedures, with staff who understand and can apply them.
Value                                                                     Partially
quantitative or 0                        11                               Achieved. See
Qualitative)                                                              comment.
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
                Not formally revised, but due to methodological obstacles an alternative
Comments
                index of planning, programming, and budgeting performance was used
(incl. %
                (see Annex 2-b). Only 4 out of 9 provinces achieved the target score of
achievement)
                70%, and the average score was 62%.
                2b. Percentage of project kabupaten with adequate funding for routine
Indicator 5 :
                maintenance of Priority Road Network (JJP) (based on budget allocation).
Value                                                                     Partially
quantitative or N/A                      85%                              achieved. See
Qualitative)                                                              comment.
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
Comments        Not revised, but due to lack of reliable budget data, an alternative
(incl. %        performance index was used (see Annex 2-b). 15 out of 29 kabupatens
achievement) achieved the target score of 70% and the average score was 66%.
                2c. Percent of works packages reported by the RDSCs in environmental
Indicator 6 :
                monitoring reports.
Value
quantitative or N/A                      100%                             57%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                3a. Percentage of bid openings attended by one or more representatives of
Indicator 7 :
                Civil Society.
Value
quantitative or 0                        60%                              98%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
Comments        Target was exceeded by 163%. The data was based on records of the
(incl. %        attendance of Community Representative Observers (CRO) at bid
achievement) openings.
Indicator 8 : 3b. Compliance with tender schedule defined at time of bidding.
Value
quantitative or 0                        90%                              82%
Qualitative)



                                           iv
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
Comments
                Compliance is defined as the closeness to the target number of days, 30
(incl. %
                days for NCB and 42 days for ICB.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : 3c. Ratio of technical audits carried out by Inspectorate General.
Value
quantitative or 0                        See comment        52%           43%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004                 09/30/2011         09/30/2011 09/30/2011
Comments        The original target of 120 audits (for 230 subprojects) was converted to a
(incl. %        ratio to maintain a constant target despite a change in the number of
achievement) subprojects. The final number of audits was 52 (out of 120 subprojects).


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                       Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                       approval           Target        Completion or
                                       documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : 4a. Cumulative percent of project roads receiving betterment.
Value
(quantitative 0                        100%                             74%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004               09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        1,114.4 km was achieved against the PAD target of 1,514.2 km.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : 4b. Cumulative percent of project roads receiving rehabilitation.
Value
(quantitative 0                        100%                             35%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004               09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        567.5 km was achieved against the PAD target of 1,605.1 km.
achievement)
                4c. Cumulative percent of project bridges receiving rehabilitation or
Indicator 3 :
                replacement.
Value
(quantitative 0                        100%                             76%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004               09/30/2011                       09/30/2011
Comments
                1,769.7 m was achieved against the PAD target of 2,342.0 m.
(incl. %



                                             v
achievement)
                4d. Number of Agreed technical assistance activities completed as
Indicator 4 :
                planned.
Value
(quantitative 0                         7                 4              2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/23/2004                09/30/2011        06/30/2009 09/30/2011
Comments
                Five out of seven original TA activities were eventually cancelled. The
(incl. %
                project achieved 50% of the revised target.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                     Actual
    Date ISR
No.                  DO                      IP                      Disbursements
    Archived
                                                                     (USD millions)
1    09/23/2004      Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.00
2    11/05/2004      Satisfactory            Satisfactory            2.00
3    06/13/2005      Satisfactory            Satisfactory            26.00
4    03/14/2006      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 26.00
5    06/12/2007      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 39.81
6    05/22/2008      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 52.53
7    06/17/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 104.86
8    08/11/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 109.86
9    02/11/2011      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 182.10


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings         Amount
              Board      at                  Disbursed at
Restructuring                                             Reason for Restructuring
              Approved   Restructurin        Restructurin
Date(s)                                                   & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change g                   g in USD
                         DO IP               millions
                                                          (i) Cancellation of several
                                                          TAs, (ii) Revision of
                                                          measurement methods of a
06/29/2009      N             MS      MS     104.86       few PIs, (iii) Reallocation of
                                                          savings and unallocated
                                                          funds, (iv) Extension of
                                                          closing date by 21 months.




                                            vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
The decentralization of Indonesia, through Laws 22 and 25 of 1999, led to a fundamental
shift in governance and public service delivery in the country. Indonesia used to be
administered largely as a centralized state, but the ‘big-bang’ decentralization of 2001
gave most of the responsibility for basic public service delivery and government
functions (except for national affairs) to over 440 local governments, such as kota
(municipalities) and kabupaten (districts) in addition to over 30 provinces across the
nation. While decentralization brought advantages, the shift of responsibilities created
serious implementation challenges particularly at the local level. Although the basic
national-level legal and procedural frameworks for decentralization were in place, many
local governments had limited capacities to effectively implement the new arrangements,
and to deliver on their newly expanded roles and responsibilities.
The Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project (EIRTP-2) was the second of
two complementary transport projects—originally conceived as a single operation—
aimed at supporting economic growth and improved social welfare of the Eastern
Indonesia Region (EIR). The first project, EIRTP-1 (2002–2009) focused on national and
strategic roads, while EIRTP-2 (2004–2011) focused on primary roads under provincial
and kabupaten (district) administration in addition to the national roads not already
covered by EIRTP-1.
At the time of project appraisal the overarching goal of the World Bank Group in
Indonesia was to support the government’s effort to reduce poverty and vulnerability in a
more open and decentralized environment. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
FY 2004–07 focused on three broad priority objectives: improving the climate for high
quality investment; delivering services for the poor; and addressing governance issues.
The project was identified in the CAS as part of the base-case lending program for FY04
under the theme “Improving the investment climate for poverty reduction,? with a
proposed IBRD allocation of $200 million. In addition to the CAS objectives, the project
also supported the Bank’s “Local Services Platform,? promoting regional responsibility
for project implementation and regional-central government cost-sharing.
Several Bank projects prepared around the time EIRTP2 was prepared tried to work
directly with relatively small numbers of provincial and kabupaten/kota governments to
improve delivery of public services in the hope of setting higher standards for planning,
transparency and service delivery that would be emulated by others. EIRTP2 tried to
work with 37 kabupaten (less than 10% of all kabupaten nationwide) and 10 provinces
(less than 30% of provinces), and covered a relatively small section of the road network
even in these kabupaten and provinces. This was fully in line with the government's
approach, and consistent with the early stages of Indonesia's decentralization.
The rationale for Bank involvement was to (a) continue the support that it had been
providing to the road sector in Indonesia during the previous two decades, (b) strengthen
the long-term sustainability of the road investments that the government had already
made in the EIR, and (c) improve implementation of environmental and social policies
and practices in the roads sector. The Bank’s longstanding involvement and close



                                           1
collaboration with the Indonesian government in the roads sector made it uniquely
qualified to finance the project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project Development Objectives of EIRTP-2 were to:
     1. improve the condition of the strategic road network in order to reduce transport
        costs and enhance regional accessibility;
     2. support decentralization of planning and management responsibilities for civil
        works on provincial and kabupaten roads to their respective governments; and
     3. increase the efficiency, quality and transparency of civil works procurement and
        implementation.
The key performance indicators for the above PDOs were:
     1. vehicle operating costs and travel times on project roads reduced;
     2. number of provinces and districts which adopt new planning, technical, and
        safeguard procedures; and
     3. number of contracts awarded in accordance with the project’s anti-corruption plan.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
    The PDO and the Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries are road users in the area targeted by the project, which comprises
a population of about 20 million people distributed among the 10 participating provinces
and 37 participating kabupatens in the EIR. The direct benefits were to (a) lower
transport costs for passengers and freight by the improved road conditions and
connectivity; (b) provide significant benefits to isolated communities with poor
population by improved transport services; and (c) promote the ability of local
administrations to manage their road assets and impact on local governance.

1.5 Original Components
The project consisted of the following three components:
Component 1. Civil Works for Preservation of Roads and Transport Facilities
(US$183.48 million). This comprised five sub-components to cover rehabilitation, 1
betterment (upgrading) and bridge replacement of (a) national inter-urban, (b) national
urban, (c) provincial, and (d) kabupaten roads, and a fifth subcomponent for (e)
improvements to facilities serving interfaces between road and non-road transport
services, such as small sea ports, ferry terminals and local airports.
Component 2. Implementation Support (US$29.00 million). This component covered
consulting services and a small amount of equipment required to support implementation


1
    The term “rehabilitation? applied to rehabilitating the pavement surface, not full-depth reconstruction of the pavement structure.



                                                                      2
of the project to enhance quality and technical efficiency of the works, as well as
provision of funds for incremental operating costs for the Project Management Unit
(PMU) and the Directorate of Technical Affairs in the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH), and for the conduct of technical audits by the Inspectorate General (IG) of the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW).
Component 3. Road Sector Capacity Building (US$8.70 million). This component
consisted of technical assistance and training to strengthen the planning, management,
and financial capacity of responsible agencies and authorities in the road sector in the
EIR, with an emphasis on support for the ongoing decentralization process.
The technical assistance in this component consisted of (i) extension of the initiative
started under EIRTP-1 to develop and strengthen planning, programming and budgeting
procedures (PPBP), with particular emphasis on providing support for kabupaten staff for
maintenance planning and management; (ii) further support for establishment of the road
fund and the road board started under EIRTP-1; (iii) expansion of the traffic and road
asset monitoring systems (TRAMS) started under EIRTP-1 to cover provincial and local
roads; (iv) improving management of environmental and socio-cultural impacts of road
development in environmentally sensitive areas (IMES); and (v) development of a
medium-term (10 to 15 year) Kalimantan Road Network Development plan (KRND),
taking into account the likely future roles of waterways and coastal shipping, the need for
institutional capacity building in local institutions, and the policy initiatives needed to
assist regional development and transport provision in an environmentally fragile region.
Training and training-related consultant services were provided under this component to
(i) investigate the feasibility of institutionalizing the training needs analysis function in
local government; (ii) review and revise five training courses, deliver seven existing
courses which were not included in EIRTP-1, and develop two additional interactive
computer training courses; (iii) update the Training Management Information System;
and (iv) provide support to enable about 40 roads officials to complete relevant masters
degree programs offered by leading Indonesian universities, and for 26 road officials to
complete a special masters degree program administered collaboratively by the Ministry
of Public Works and the Asian Institute of Technology (AIT).

1.6 Revised Components
The original components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
Closing Date Extensions and Partial Loan Cancellation. The closing date was extended
twice, first by 21 months and a second time by 6 months. The first extension was part of
the Project Restructuring explained below. The second extension was associated with a
cancellation of US$6 million, which reduced the loan amount from US$199 million to
US$193 million (at signing $1 million (50%) of the front-end fee was waived, and the
borrower requested to cancel that amount instead of reallocating it in the loan, which
resulted the loan amount $199 million rather than $200 million).
Project Restructuring. The project was restructured on June 30, 2009. The main
elements of the restructuring were (i) cancellation of several technical assistance (TA)


                                             3
activities in the Road Sector Capacity component, (ii) revision of the measurement
methods of a few performance indicators, (iii) reallocation between disbursement
categories, and (iv) extension of the closing date to March 31, 2011. The principal
purpose of the reallocation, which included nearly $28 million in previously unallocated
funds, was to shift project resources in response to the government’s updated strategic
plan for maintenance of national roads. As a result, project resources for sub-national
roads were reduced by about 23% (to $81 million) while resources for national roads
more than tripled (to about $77 million). These changes are described in detail in
Sections 2.2 and 3.2.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Overall preparation and quality at entry: The project was well prepared and the lessons
learned from the previous Bank-financed projects in the highway sector in Indonesia
were taken into account in the project design. The Bank’s longstanding engagement in
the Indonesia road sector helped ensure that the background analysis and rationale for
Bank involvement were very strong. Compliance with safeguards requirements during
preparation, design of project safeguard plans and frameworks, technical and economic
analysis, and readiness for implementation were also good. Preparation took less than two
years from the first identification mission (September 2002) to Board approval (June
2004). Although there were significant implementation delays during the initial years of
the project, this was mainly due to factors that did not reflect shortcomings in quality at
entry or lack of readiness at appraisal.
Design: The relevance of the project objectives, components, and activities was strong.
The PDOs were consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy, including support of
the government of Indonesia’s decentralization efforts. The design was well thought out
to ensure that the project’s components and specific activities would be clearly linked to
the PDOs and support the government’s development priorities and sectoral strategy,
while targeting some of the country’s poorest areas. The initial scope of the civil works
component would have encompassed 15 provinces and over 130 kabupatens in the EIR,
but was scaled back prior to appraisal so that the $200 million commitment amount
would not be spread too thinly and the project could deliver more meaningful support to
each participating entity. The final design envisioned about 230 civil works sub-projects
for national and sub-national roads in 10 provinces and 37 kabupatens. The project design
of the implementation support component and institutional arrangements were based on
past experience in similar projects, which provided tested and proven approaches. The
TA and training activities in the road sector capacity building component required some
adjustment during implementation, but were fundamentally sound and relevant to the
participating agencies’ needs and priorities. However, the on-grant financing agreement
between the national and sub-national governments required 100% pre-financing by the
sub-national governments and many of them experienced a lack of funds to provide the
full portion of the contract amount. This was more significant in poorer sub-national
governments, as their counterpart funds were supposed to share only 10 or 30 percent.
Government commitment and stakeholder involvement: The main problem encountered
during the preparation was the need for the government of Indonesia to develop a clear


                                            4
scheme and related implementation guidelines regarding the sub-national lending (grant)
arrangements and to clearly define the cost-sharing arrangements with the participating
sub-national (regional) governments. Although this caused delays in preparation, the
government was committed to the project and eventually issued a decree on the matter
that cleared the way for the project to go forward.
Risks: The PAD provided appropriate risk analysis in Section F-2 (Critical Risks) and
Annex 1 (Critical Assumptions). In the Critical Risk analysis, the PAD considered one
factor (corruption) as high risk, and five factors as substantial risk (effective coordination
among project agencies, efficiency of the road transport industry, government
commitment to ensuring the quality of civil works, allocation of adequate funding by sub-
national governments, and timely land acquisition). These were reasonable estimates of
the risks at entry, and the designed mitigation measures worked effectively by providing
an Anti-Corruption Action Plan and facilitating on-grant agreements.
Eventually, however, lack of effective coordination among the project agencies was a
critical factor in the unsuccessful implementation of some key TA activities, particularly
Management Support for Decentralized Institutions (MSDI), and Planning, Programming
and Budgeting Procedures (PPBP-2). This was mainly due to the complexity introduced
by having the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) take the lead in project
implementation, while the decentralization support TAs required coordination with the
Ministry of Home Affairs, which was in charge of sub-national government coordination.
Problems with the terms of the on-grant agreements also caused implementation
problems and delays as explained in Section 2.2.

Late Engagement of Implementation Support Services: Procurement problems
substantially delayed the appointment of key consultants required for implementation.
Although the project became effective in October 2004, the Core Team Consultant (CTC)
was not on board until February 2006, and the three Regional Design and Supervision
Consultants (RDSCs) were not selected until December 2006. The CTC for EIRTP-1 was
able to also cover the needs of EIRTP-2 during the interim, but the delayed engagement
of the RDSCs significantly delayed implementation during the project’s first two years.
This issue was not unique in this project. The delayed engagement of implementation
support has been observed in many past and ongoing Bank projects in Indonesia, causing
recurring delays in initial project implementation.
Systemic Issues on the On-Grant Agreement Mechanism: To enable the national
government to distribute loan financing from the Bank as grant financing to local
governments to pay sub-national contracts, all provinces and kabupatens needed to sign
on-grant agreements with the GoI. At appraisal the provincial governments were
expected to contribute a total of $27.23 million and the kabupatens $38.92 million in
cofinancing for the road and bridge sub-projects. The share of costs for works sub-
projects to be financed by the national government’s on-grants varied depending on the
fiscal capacity the recipient government:
   -   30% for 1 province and 6 kabupatens with above average fiscal capacity;
   -   60% for 2 provinces and 19 kabupatens with average fiscal capacity;
   -   70% for national roads and bridges (pre-financed by GoI)
   -   90% for 7 province and 12 kabupatens with below average fiscal capacity.


                                              5
However, the on-grant from the national government was made on a reimbursement basis,
which required the sub-national governments to pre-finance 100% of the sub-project
costs themselves regardless of the percentage of costs to be reimbursed. Some provinces
and kabupatens withdrew from the project due to the difficulty of financing the sub-
projects without advance or “on-time? grant payments. Eventually one of 10 provinces
and 9 out of 37 kabupatens withdrew, including 5 in the 30% category and 5 in the 60%
category.
The expiration of the on-grant agreements on March 31, 2009 (prior to the original
closing date of June 30, 2009) and the lack of legal mechanisms to allow sub-national
governments to authorize contract payments after that date created additional difficulties
and delays. By November 2009 the government was able to develop some regulatory
workarounds to address these hurdles and the closing date had been extended to March
31, 2011. But in the meantime the lack of funds had brought most provincial and
kabupaten work packages to a halt, and the DGH had shifted a significant number of sub-
projects to national roads to avoid having the entire project come to a standstill.
Government Budget Availability: There were many delays in the provision of
counterpart funds particularly for provincial and kabupaten government’s civil works
contracts. That was caused by the fact that many sub-national governments had chronic
delays in authorizing their fiscal year (January-December) budget before the end of
March, thus causing substantial delays in payment of on-going contracts (especially due
to the pre-financing arrangements described above), which in turn resulted in many
delays of civil works implementation.
Construction Cost Increase: The Construction Price Index almost doubled between
January 2005 and December 2010, with particularly sharp increases through 2008. This
necessitated a significant reduction in the civil works programs to be financed by the
project. The original and actual road length of each category, with actual costs and unit
costs, are shown in Annex 2.

                                      Construction
                          Year                        Increase (%)
                                      Price Index
                          2005           100.0            18.9
                          2006           126.1            26.1
                          2007           143.6            13.1
                          2008           180.1            26.3
                          2009           194.0            7.7
                          2010           199.0            2.6

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design: Achievement of the PDOs was measured by three main indicators: (i)
vehicle operating cost (VOC) and travel time savings to measure the improvement of the
condition of the strategic road network, (ii) provincial governments’ adoption of
“economic-based priority-setting procedures? and kabupaten governments’ allocation of
maintenance funding to measure decentralization support, and (iii) compliance of
designated bidding procedures to measure the efficiency, quality and transparency of
works procurement, supported by the physical output measurements as intermediate



                                            6
indicators. These indicators were logically linked with the achievement of the PDOs, but
the M&E system was not adequate with limited capacity of effective data collection.
M&E Implementation. The VOC savings and travel time savings data needed a large
scale survey, and could be collected only at the completion of the packages, but with
exceptionally large number of packages, it was only possible to conduct such surveys at
the reasonable time at the end of the project. Hence VOC survey s only became available
at the end of the project. The designated data for decentralization support indicators were
very difficult to collect. The original intention of the provincial indicator was to measure
the extent of application of “economic-based priority-setting procedures? which were
introduced to the provinces under the PPBP (Planning, Programming and Budgeting
Procedures) TA component under EIRTP-1 (August 2003–June 2006). This procedure
was proposed to utilize the IIRMS (Integrated Indonesian Road Management System)
adapted to provincial government requirements or a new system which was expected to
fulfill similar objectives. However, the PPBP services under EIRTP-1 were involved in
adjusting the process of under-developing IIRMS for use at the central level which was
not concluded, and eventually the measurement of this indicator became very vague, and
could not represent the achievement of the decentralization support. The collection of
data for kabupaten governments’ allocation of maintenance funding was also very
difficult due to the large number of participating kabupaten governments with a variety of
conditions and capabilities. These indicators could have measured the outcome of
decentralization support better by directly assessing the project management capacity of
each regional government.
M&E Utilization. As discussed in Section 3.2 and Annex 2-b, the assessment of
decentralization support needed supplemental data derived from measuring management
performance of the provincial and kabupaten governments. This supplemental
information is considered useful to support the assessment of PDO achievement (see
Annex 2-b for details). Because of the challenges in collecting data, and the fact that
some were designed to only be measured at the end of the project, opportunities to utilize
M&E for project management purposes during implementation were limited.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
a. Safeguards: The project triggered the safeguards policies on Environmental
Assessment, Natural Habitats, Cultural Property, Indigenous Peoples, and Involuntary
Resettlement, and compliance was considered satisfactory throughout implementation.
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and a Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework (LARPF) were agreed upon for the project. There were no significant
deviations or waivers from the Bank’s safeguards policies and procedures.
Environment:
The Environment Assessment Policy (OP/BP/GP 4.01) was applied effectively. EIRTP-2
was classified as a Category B project requiring partial assessment at appraisal and the
EMP included environmental screening procedures for all sub-projects. Those with high
enough potential impacts that they would have required a full Environmental Impact
Assessment (AMDAL) were not eligible for financing under the project. Sub-projects
determined to require only the less intensive instruments of a site-specific Environmental
Management Plan (UKL) and Environmental Monitoring Plan (UPL) were considered


                                             7
consistent with the project’s Category B rating and were therefore eligible for project
financing. The majority of the screened sub-projects fell under the category of “standard
operating procedures? (under MPW Environmental Safeguard Category), whereby it was
determined that they would only have impacts as a result of the construction process, and
these were dealt with through the technical specifications in the works contracts as
monitored by the RDSCs.
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03,
OP/BP 4.11): The Bank’s safeguard policies on Natural Habitats and Cultural Property
were not mentioned specifically in the Environmental Management Plan, but both were
covered under Government Regulation No. 27 of 1999 regarding AMDAL, requiring
environmental study of sub-projects affecting natural conservation or cultural heritage
areas. Neither policy was found to be applicable to any sub-projects.
Social:
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20): Three sub-projects required social impact assessments
(SIA) because they involved issues related to isolated and vulnerable people (IVP). Two
were located in East Nusa Tenggara Province and one in Papua Province. There were no
significant impacts of the project on IP community at project location. The SIAs and
IPDPs were developed by the Government through consultation with relevant parties,
including the IP community, and cleared by the Bank. The most critical aspects of the
IPDP were implemented prior to the signing of the contract with the contractor for these
sub-projects. IPDP/SIA were disclosed on both the Borrower and Bank websites.
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30): Twelve sub-projects involved land acquisition and
resettlement. Only one required a full Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan
(LARAP) and for the rest a simple LARAP was produced. Land acquisition and
resettlement were satisfactorily implemented. There was one sub-project that needed
further remedial actions, for which the local government made an extra effort to prevent
one project-affected person from becoming worse off as a result of the land acquisition
activity. This was well implemented, and documented in the aide-memoires. LARAPs
were documented and disclosed on the borrower and Bank websites.

b. Fiduciary: The fiduciary aspects consist of Anti-Corruption Action Plan
implementation, Procurement and Financial Management aspects. There were some
moderate shortcomings in these areas, but they did not prevent the timely and reliable
provision of information or negatively affect project implementation or outcomes.
Anti-Corruption:
Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan (ACAP) was satisfactory. The ACAP
in EIRTP-2 was structured on the basis of six key elements; (i) Empowerment of
recipients, (ii) Empowerment of civil society for oversight and feedback, (iii)
Establishment of procurement policies to mitigate collusion, (iv) Building strong task
teams with effective tools, (v) Complaints handling system, and (vi) Clear definition of
remedies. The implementation of the ACAP has contributed to the intended transparency
by the effective disclosure of public information, community representative observers
and complaints handling mechanism. The third party monitoring faced a difficulty in




                                           8
selecting the right organizations, but it produced notable outcomes in the end. The
assessment of the key actions in the ACAP is summarized below:
 a. Public Information Disclosure: EIRTP-2’s website provided comprehensive
    information on the project to the public. Installation of touch screen computers was
    successfully achieved in the nine participating provinces with complete data and
    information to be displayed. EIRTP-2 Newsletters have been produced in both
    Indonesian and English, though not on a regular basis. These newsletters were
    distributed to the interested public through e-mail, the PMU website, and manually.
 b. Community Representative Observers (CROs): The CROs were selected and
    involved in the project. Most of the bid openings (98%) were attended by a CRO,
    and CROs were involved in the monitoring and supervision of the civil works.
    However, out of 156 civil works procurement (excluding deleted packages), only 77
    were reported by the CROs, while 79 were not reported. Many of the CROs did not
    intend to submit reports unless there were problems or irregularities, because they
    considered the allowances and expense payments insufficient to cover the time spent
    on preparing reports on routine bid openings.
 c. Third Party Monitoring (TPM): Although NGOs’ interested in participating in the
    TPM was initially very limited. The revision of the TOR to include additional
    expenses (report assembling cost and report production expenses) improved the
    situation and generated stronger interest from NGOs. The TPM was limited in ten
    sub-projects, but produced a notable outcome with this pioneer effort in civil society
    oversight of the regional road sector.
 d. Complaints Handling Mechanism (CHM): The Complaints Handling Secretariat was
    established in January 2007, and functioned under the PMU. Initially only
    substantial complaints were forwarded to the Inspectorate General (IG) of MPW, but
    later the IG requested all the complaints to be discussed with them. A total of 21
    complaints were received, out of which 20 had been resolved at the time of this
    writing. The one remaining complaint was about the payment delay by a contractor,
    which was settled by the end of 2011. Because EIRTP-2 had more accessible
    complaints channels, the PMU received a number of complaints from contractors,
    organizations, and individuals, and a number of meetings were conducted with the
    complainants to resolve the issues.
Procurement:
The main procurement challenge under EIRTP-2 was the exceptionally large number of
civil works contract packages (sub-projects) across many participating provinces and
kabupatens in addition to the national government. Delayed approval of budgets caused
suspension of construction activities on site and extension of contracts. It happened in
2009 and, at the end of 2009/early 2010, during which many contracts had to be extended
or even terminated (see Section 2.2). A number of packages required rebidding due to
unsuccessful bidding or malpractice in the bidding process. Bids were announced through
local and national newspapers. The national road contracts were announced through the
DGH website, and all ICB contracts were announced through DG Market and UNDB
Online. Major delays were experienced during the RDSC selection process, which took
more than two years to conclude, and affected the implementation of the civil works



                                           9
component. There were a number of variations (technical design, quantity change, etc.)
to signed contracts. This was one of the challenges in project management.
Financial Management:
Financial management under the project was moderately satisfactory. The project’s
financial management system, including accounting, budgeting, internal control, funds
flow, financial reporting and auditing, was acceptable to the Bank. Overall, Financial
Management Reports were submitted on time. The audit findings reported several
weaknesses in internal controls particularly in the areas of payment verification and
project management, in which the auditor noted issues on payments verification in
construction works, consultant services and monitoring. The follow up on these findings
was quite slow, and some of the issues were not resolved until the closing. Some
ineligible expenses were identified, but these were refunded to the Designated Account.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The post-completion operation of the completed civil works will be the responsibility of
the governments that implemented the rehabilitation and betterment. The national road
network is expected to have a reasonable level of routine maintenance to sustain the
project benefits for the anticipated life of the road. The sub-national (provincial and
kabupaten) roads, however, need further attention to ensure that there are sustainable
funding arrangements for routine maintenance. The two implemented road sector support
TAs (IMES and KRNDS; see Annex 2 for details) will contribute to the improved
standard planning procedures and Kalimantan road development planning.
At the sub-national level, effective road maintenance will depend on how well kabupaten
and provinces use the considerable resources transferred to them through Indonesia’s
inter-governmental fiscal transfer system. The special-purpose grant (DAK), for example,
provides kabupaten and provinces with USD2.9 billion in funds from the national
government each year, primarily to finance a range of infrastructure maintenance tasks.
The Bank currently has two loans (The “Local Government Development Project/DAK 1?
which is under supervision and the “Strengthening DAK Transfers to Local
Governments/DAK 2? which is under preparation) designed to strengthen local
government (LG) accountability for effective service provision by refinancing fiscal
transfers (and topping them up with a premium) when LGs meet defined benchmarks
including infrastructure quality targets.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
All three parts of the PDO - enhancement of regional accessibility, decentralization
support and efficiency, and quality and transparency improvements - remained fully
relevant to the current country environment and the national strategies. The latest
Country Partnership Strategy (Report No. 44845-IND) proposes to improve existing
government programs, strengthen the institutions involved (both state and non-state), and
encourage others to replicate them. EIRTP-2 remained fully consistent with the current
CPS priorities as it directly fostered a competitive private sector and supported
Indonesia’s infrastructure investment.


                                           10
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The Project Development Objectives were partially achieved. The project components
were well tailored to achieve the objectives, but the level of success in achieving the
intended outcomes varied.
(i) Improve condition of the strategic road network in order to reduce transport costs
    and enhance regional accessibility.
The achievement of this objective is considered Moderately Satisfactory. In terms of
output achievement, out of the original target of improving about 3,120 km of strategic
road rehabilitation and betterment, the actual output was 1,682 km (54%), and out of the
original target of 2,342 m of bridges and bridge work, the actual output was 1,644 m
(76%). This shortcoming was mainly due to the steep increase in construction costs
during the implementation period (see Section 2.2 and Annex 2 for details), and also due
to increased unit cost, to deal with worsening road conditions during the longer than
expected implementation period. The intermediate performance indicators (“Physical
Outputs? shown as percentage targets in the PAD) were partly achieved as summarized
below. Subcomponent 1.5 (facilities serving interfaces between road and non-road
transport services) was not implemented (see Annex 2 for details).

                                                          Actual
                                   PAD                                           Achievement
               Investment                      Project    N.B.F       Actual
                                  Estimate                                           (%)
                                               Length    Length*1     Length
           National Inter-urban Roads
           Rehabilitation (km)    124.1        47.2         0.0         47.2        38.0%
           Betterment (km)         90.2        392.2        0.0        392.2        434.8%
           Bridges (m)            696.0        816.0        0.0        816.0        117.2%
           National Urban Roads
           Rehabilitation (km)      58.4        51.8        0.0        51.8          88.7%
           Betterment (km)          51.0        19.5        0.0        19.5          38.2%
           Bridges (m)               0.0         4.8        0.0        4.8             ---
           Provincial Roads
           Rehabilitation (km)     372.9       120.7        0.0        120.7         32.4%
           Betterment (km)         438.1       179.2       21.8        201.0         45.9%
           Bridges (m)            1,148.0      588.4       106.0       694.4         60.5%
           Kabupaten Roads
           Rehabilitation (km)    1,049.7      273.5       74.3        347.8         33.1%
           Betterment (km)         934.8       458.9       42.8        501.7         53.7%
           Bridges (m)             498.0       108.5       20.0        128.5         25.8%
           Total
           Rehabilitation (km)    1,605.1      493.2       74.3        567.5        35.4%
           Betterment (km)        1,514.1     1,049.8      64.6       1,114.4       73.6%
           Bridges (m)            2,342.0     1,517.7      126.0      1,643.7       75.6%
          *1 Non-Bank-Financed Length: Part of EIRTP-2 but could not get on-grant financing and
          implemented by each government’s own finance.

In terms of outcome achievement, the reduction of transport costs and enhancement of
regional accessibility on the improved roads in all categories was fully achieved and in
most cases substantially exceeded, as reflected in PDO Indicator 1a (19% VOC reduction


                                                   11
achieved on provincial roads included in the project against a target of 11%), Indicator 1b
(39% VOC reduction achieved on kabupaten roads included in the project against a target
of 25%), and Indicator 1c (52% travel time improvement on selected project roads
achieved against a target 20%).

(ii) Support decentralization of planning and management responsibilities for works
     on provincial and kabupaten roads to the respective provincial and kabupaten
     governments.
The achievement of this objective was Moderately Unsatisfactory. In terms of output
achievement, one of the intermediate performance indicators (“Physical Outputs? shown
as the number of agreed TAs completed in the PAD) shows that there were only two
completed TAs against the revised target of four. The revision of the target from seven to
four in the Project Restructuring in June 2009 was due to the changing project
environment and country needs rather than capacity or performance issues (see Annex 2
for details). However, the two key remaining TAs (MSDI in Implementation Support and
PPBP-2 in Road Sector Support), which were envisaged to directly support the
participating sub-national governments, ultimately could not be implemented. This was
the most significant shortcoming in the project’s achievement of outputs.
In terms of achieving outcomes related to decentralization support, the project originally
intended to measure the performance of participating provincial and kabupaten
governments with outcome indicators 2a (number of provinces using the PPBP priority-
setting procedures originally developed under EIRTP-1) and 2b (number of kabupaten
with adequate funding for routine maintenance of the JJP network). However, by 2009 it
was clear that these indicators could not be measured on an ongoing basis or at closing
due to ambiguity in how measurement of the indicators was defined, as well as technical
and capacity issues (see Annex 2-b for details). Many of the participating sub-national
governments, however, were able to substantially implement the intended civil works
program in each territory, supported by the guidance and periodic training provided by
the DGH and the CTC. To supplement the missing data for indicators 2a and 2b,
supplemental performance evaluation data was collected in terms of timeliness,
documentation and successful completion without failure or termination for participating
provincial and kabupaten governments. An index was created on which a score of 70%
was considered the threshold for acceptable performance. The data reflected wide
variation in the management performance of the various sub-national governments, with
an average score of about 62% for provinces and 66% for kabupaten (see Annex 2-b for
details). Only about half of the participating provinces and kabupaten attained the 70%
threshold. This is considered moderately unsatisfactory in terms of decentralization
support for road works planning and management responsibilities as an outcome of this
project intervention.
(iii) Increase the efficiency, quality and transparency of works procurement and
      implementation.
The achievement of this objective was Moderately Satisfactory, as reflected in the
relevant performance indicators. Although it was a challenging job to manage more than
150 civil works procurement cases, the project achieved most of the procurement and
implementation, but with substantial delays in some cases. The efficiency, quality and


                                            12
transparency of works procurement was also increased by the ACAP implementation, but
its achievement was also moderate (see Section 2.4 for details).
The outcome indicators show that 98% of bid openings were attended by one or more
CROs, although the CROs only submitted the final reports documenting their findings in
about half of the cases. The Inspectorate General carried out technical audits for 43% of
the sub-projects, against a target of 52%.
The project experienced significant delays in implementation, and the loan closing date
was extended twice, by a total of 27 months (45% longer than the original
implementation period). This was mainly due to delays in many of the sub-national
contract packages because of the complications caused by the expiration of the on-grant
agreement in March 2009 (see Section 2.2 for details). This problem was eventually
solved through alternative arrangements that allowed project implementation to continue,
but the situation reduced procurement efficiency.

3.3 Efficiency
(a) Economic Analysis
The post-project economic analysis shows that the project’s intended efficiency was
maintained despite implementation delays and increased construction costs. The post-
project economic analysis used HDM-4 for all the categories of roads. It was necessary to
restrict the analysis to a representative sample of road links rather than the entire project
in order to collect enough information at the level of detail needed to undertake a valid
and comparable evaluation. The project packages were located throughout the project
area, with a variety of different government agencies in charge. There were often changes
to the actual length of the roadway treated, the type of improvements made, or even the
location of the works that were planned at appraisal to ensure the relevant and efficient
use of resources as road conditions and improvement needs evolved during the project’s
seven-year implementation period. Therefore, the representative packages selected for
each category were those where the original appraisal survey data were available and still
valid for definition of the base case. The results of the evaluation are summarized in the
following table in terms of EIRR. The appraisal estimate used EIRR as the sole indicator
for economic evaluation because the tools used for the analysis did not all report NPV.
                                       EIRR at Appraisal              EIRR at Appraisal              EIRR at Post-
            Road Type                 Estimate (All Project)               Estimate                Project Estimate
                                      AWP-1       AWP-2&3              (Selected Links*)           (Selected Links*)
       National Inter-urban            48%               65%                 106.0%                      108.2%
          National Urban               104%             104%                  85.1%                      96.8%
             Provincial                54%               46%                  18.7%                      24.7%
             Kabupaten                 61%               52%                  57.4%                      35.8%
     * The selected links for Appraisal Estimate were the same links as the selected links for Post-Project Estimate for
       comparison, which represents about 15-20% of the total road links.


The results show a wide range in EIRR as was the case in the appraisal estimate, and a
good level of consistency with the selected links. The EIRR for selected kabupaten roads
was lower than the appraisal estimate, but still justifies the investment. The actual costs
of construction were much higher than the appraisal estimate (see Annex 2 for details),


                                                              13
     but the benefits were also much higher since the benefit values have shown large
     increases and by the time the works got underway most of the roads had deteriorated to
     worse condition than was assumed at appraisal, which increased the gap between before
     and after conditions.

     (b) Unit Cost Analysis
     The overall civil works cost was efficient. The unit cost of each category of the civil
     works was compared with available statistics (average per-km cost in MPW) for the
     average of the EIRTP-2 provinces and for Indonesia as a whole in the following table.
                             EIRTP-2                   Average Cost              Average Cost
                            Actual Cost              EIRTP-2 Provinces           All Indonesia                Specifications of
      Investment
                                  Cost/km*2          Cost/km (US$ k)*2         Cost/km (US$ k)*2            Average Cost Category
                       Length*1
                                   (US$ k)             2008 – 2010*3            2008 – 2010*3
National Inter-urban Roads
Rehabilitation (km)      47.2       131.4                 68.8 – 76.0             66.7 – 73.7          W=6.0m, 2x1.5m Shoulder
Betterment (km)         392.2       175.1                226.0 – 249.7           225.7 – 249.4         W=6.0m, 2x1.5m Shoulder
Bridges (m)             816.0        15.1                 13.7 – 15.2             13.0 – 14.4          W=7.0m, 1.0m Sidewalk
National Urban Roads
Rehabilitation (km)          51.8         130.1          147.7 – 163.2           143.7 – 158.8         W=14.0m, 2x2.0m Shoulder
Betterment (km)              19.5         320.5          499.9 – 552.4           498.6 – 550.9         W=14.0m, 2x2.0m Shoulder
Bridges (m)                   4.8         91.7               N/A                     N/A
Provincial Roads
Rehabilitation (km)         120.7         75.2            57.0 – 63.0             55.2 – 61.0          W=5.0m, 2x1.0m Shoulder
Betterment (km)             179.2         178.2          188.2 – 208.0           187.9 – 207.7         W=5.0m, 2x1.0m Shoulder
Bridges (m)                 588.4          9.0            11.4 – 12.6             10.9 – 12.0          W=6.0m, 0.5m Sidewalk
Kabupaten Roads
Rehabilitation (km)         273.5         52.2            52.5 – 58.0             50.7 – 56.1          W=4.5m, 2x1.0m Shoulder
Betterment (km)             458.9         90.0           171.6 – 189.6           171.4 – 189.4         W=4.5m, 2x1.0m Shoulder
Bridges (m)                 108.5          8.9             9.7 – 10.7             9.2 – 10.2           W=4.5m, 0.5m Sidewalk
Total (Average)
a. Rehabilitation (km)      493.2         73.6            63.5 – 70.2             61.5 – 68.0          Weighted Ave. by EIRTP-2 length
b. Betterment (km)         1,049.8        141.1          199.5 – 220.4           199.2 – 220.6         Weighted Ave. by EIRTP-2 length
c. Overall Ave (a+b)*4     1,543.0        119.5          156.0 – 172.4           155.2 – 171.8         Overall Ave with Rehab + Bettermt
d. Bridges (m)             1,517.7        12.3            12.4 – 13.7             11.8 – 13.0          Weighted Ave. by EIRTP-2 length
     *1 This does not include N.B.F length (see Section 3.2-i) for the purpose of computing the project’s unit costs.
     *2 All US$ Cost was converted from IDR with US$1.0 = Rp.9,000 regardless of the time of construction.
     *3 Data derived from 2010 MPW statistics and converted to 2008 with the ratio of the Construction Price Index.
     *4 Weighted average of Rehabilitation and Betterment per-km costs for EIRTP-2, EIRTP-2 Provinces and All Indonesia.

     The “gravity center? of all EIRTP-2 civil works construction time was around 2008 to
     2010, and most of the unit costs were either within or lower than the average of this
     period. This analysis, however, has some limitations. For example, the individual design
     of betterment works typically has more variety in improvement levels, so that the unit
     cost may vary more than rehabilitation. Also, the individual design width may be
     different from the typical category of the average costs. The table shows some of the
     rehabilitation costs (national inter-urban and provincial roads) were much higher than the
     averages. This may be because some of the packages or parts of packages may have been
     categorized as rehabilitation but included higher upgrading works, while the betterment


                                                                   14
in the same road categories appear much lower than the averages and may have included
simple rehabilitation in part. However, the total cost comparison still shows that the
overall EIRTP-2 average civil works cost was within the reasonable level or even lower
than the average construction costs of the country and the provinces. (See “Overall
Average? raw in the table)
The overall civil works quality was moderately satisfactory. Although the Bank could do
more for enhancing the overall quality, the general assessment of the construction quality
of the project packages are better than other similar projects implemented by the
government funds, although these were not fully satisfactory. The enhanced transparency
mechanism embedded in the ACAP is considered to have contributed to the
improvements.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The PDOs remained relevant to GoI priorities and consistent with the CPS through the
period of implementation. The project certainly reduced transport costs and enhanced
regional accessibility in the relatively limited areas covered by the project's investments2
by improving the condition of part of the planned strategic road network, and moderately
increasing the efficiency, quality and transparency of works procurement and
implementation. However, its contribution to decentralization support to sub-national
governments was less successful than anticipated.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Eastern Indonesia Region (EIR), home of 46 million people or about 20 percent of
Indonesia’s total population, is the poorest, least populated and least developed part of
the country compared with relatively developed Western Indonesia (Java and Sumatra).
The project financed work on roads and bridges in the EIR with very poor road
conditions, where the people had long awaited the funding opportunity needed to
undertake critically needed improvements. Prior to the project, many of the unpaved
kabupaten roads were passable only during the dry season. The improvements made
under the project, particularly in the provincial roads (300 km) and kabupaten roads (732
km), provided many local producers with easier access to markets to sell their harvest,
allowed traders to bring more goods into the villages at lower cost, and improved access
to other basic services and human needs.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Although many of the Road Sector Support TAs failed to be implemented, the project
helped many sub-national governments bring their project planning and management into
line with international standard practices by conforming strictly to the requirements of the
Project Management Manual and Anti-Corruption Action Plan. It also gave an
opportunity for the national and sub-national governments to strengthen cooperation in


2
    Only 1% of the road network in the project area was handled under the project over five years according to the Borrower’s ICR.



                                                                   15
implementing a single project with harmonized procedures. It did not, however, bring
about the substantial institutional change in terms of their relationship that was intended.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Through the discussion of possible solutions to cope with the expiration of the on-grant
agreement on March 31, 2009, the national government and sub-national governments
discussed and identified potential funding possibilities to enable funds flow from the
national to sub-national governments, which should be helpful for similar opportunities in
the future.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant
The reduction of transport costs and enhancement of regional accessibility achieved by
the improved road conditions could be quickly lost if local governments lack the
knowledge, capacity, commitment, or funding to carry out routine maintenance,
particularly for sub-national roads. Although the project contributed to improving the
project management capacity of these sub-national governments, they still have relatively
weak capacity for road network planning and management due to the failure to
implement the MSDI and PPBP-2 TAs.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank designed the project with relevant and timely objectives, well selected physical
and institutional components, and on the basis of appropriate lessons from past projects,
experience, and analysis. The Bank assigned a qualified team with an appropriate skill
mix that delivered a well-designed project. Based on the previous Bank experience with
EIRTP-1, the economic, environmental and social aspects were properly appraised and
the main risks were identified correctly. The task team ensured that the PDOs were
consistent with the Government and Bank strategies, and the project met the readiness
criteria that allowed for a transition to implementation. However, the project could not
anticipate the changes in the implementation environment that diminished the
achievement of the second PDO related to the decentralization support, particularly the
failure the carry out two of the planned TA activities.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The supervision team was well-balanced, with an appropriate skill mix and experience.
Formal supervision mission were carried out, on average, twice a year, except during
2007 when the TTL was based in the Country Office and carried out supervision on an
ongoing basis without formally designated missions. The environmental and social
safeguards specialists actively participated in site visits by supervising and ensuring that
the UKL, the LARAPs and the IPDP were implemented in accordance with the project’s


                                            16
safeguards instruments. The mission aide-memoire were comprehensive and actions were
appropriately discussed, which helped the Implementing Agency (DGH) formally address
key issues with sub-national governments and other agencies. The frequency of site visits,
however, was limited compared with the size of the civil works component (153 contract
packages) since missions were combined with another project (SRIP), and civil works
quality issues were not particularly highlighted. The task team could have been more
proactive in anticipating the possible failure of the decentralization support TAs
(particularly MSDI and PPBP-2), and discussing and suggesting alternative ways to
support decentralization capacity building at an earlier stage of the project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall rating is based on the QAE rating of Satisfactory and supervision rating of
Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank could have been more pro-active about enhancing
decentralization support.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Government released the funds and provided counterpart funds properly. Despite
annual budget delays, which are a common occurrence in all sectors in Indonesia, the
project budget was well supported, and sufficient resources were provided to the
implementing agencies. Bappenas stayed engaged in the project during the
implementation phase by participating in the mission discussions, and took a lead in
addressing inter-ministry issues. Inter-ministry coordination, however, was not effective
in MSDI implementation, which was a critical TA for decentralization support through
the project. The Ministry of Home Affairs, which was responsible for implementing
MSDI, failed in procurement of the TA after a long period of attempts, and failed to
budget the final consultant selection process, which disabled the implementation of this
critical TA for decentralization support. The failure of PPBP-2 was also caused by the
lack of ownership; while the TA was for decentralization support for sub-national
governments, the national government did not exercise full responsibility to take the lead
in decentralization support aspects of the project.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Despite serious challenges posed by the challenge of consolidating a number of sub-
national governments and the technical complexity of the project, the overall
performance of the implementing agency, the DGH and its PMU, was satisfactory and
resulted in good physical implementation of most of the 153 road and bridge sub-projects
completed before the revised closing date. The DGH also took initiative in a timely
manner to propose, negotiate, and help process the project restructuring and closing date
extensions. The DGH also suggested solutions to the issue of the expiration of the on-
grant agreement, which ultimately allowed for the continuation of the sub-national civil
works packages and was the major factor in ensuring their completion. The participating


                                           17
provincial and kabupaten governments demonstrated strong commitment to
implementing the project as reflected in their forthright support to all sub-projects with
timely provision of funds required and compliance with loan covenants, except for the
ones withdrawn from the project due to the on-grant agreement issue and the unavoidable
delays associated with the expiration of the on-grant agreement (See Section 2.1). The
PMU and the CTC made their best effort in meeting ACAP requirements and in
providing guidance to the participating sub-national governments on matters of
governance, fiduciary, and safeguards compliance. Some local governments took a very
positive and proactive approach to the safeguard issues, which in many cases were fairly
new to them (for example, in West Kalimantan, where the local government did a good
job addressing a complaint from a local NGO regarding a quarry location near a protected
national park). Several overdue complaint cases related to sub-national packages were
concluded before the closing date with close coordination and guidance from DGH.
However, while the DGH did a good job of implementing the sub-national civil works
component, its leadership in ensuring the implementation of the decentralization support
TAs was not sufficient.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The national government and implementing agency devoted substantial effort to
resolving project issues not only in the national road packages but also the sub-national
works packages within the decentralized authorization structure established by
Indonesian law. The main shortcomings were related to the decentralization support TAs,
which did not enjoy the same level of commitment and implementation support. The
overall rating is based on the government rating of Moderately Satisfactory and the
implementing agency rating of Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
Seven key lessons can be drawn from this project as discussed below. The first three
lessons are particularly for future projects in Indonesia, while the latter three lessons can
apply for similar projects worldwide.

6.1 The approach for supporting sub-national public service provision depends on the
stage of a country’s decentralization process and may vary over time. In hindsight, the
project concept was overly ambitious (given the relatively small financing envelope
through the loan relative to the volume of rehabilitation works needed in Eastern
Indonesia), but the approach was appropriate for the early stages of Indonesia's
decentralization process when different pieces of the new decentralized architecture were
still falling into place. The approach under the Bank's newer operations in support of
local governments’ public service provision should have more focus on improving the
results achieved by Indonesia's own inter-governmental transfer system rather than trying
to maximize the benefits achieved from relatively modest amounts of Bank lending.

6.2 Advance procurement of implementation support consulting services is a key for
success in Indonesia. The late engagement of implementation support consulting
services has occurred repeatedly in Bank projects in Indonesia, which hampers the


                                             18
smooth start of implementation. Many past Bank projects in Indonesia including EIRTP-
2 have tried to solve this problem by utilizing the previous/ongoing project’s
implementation support services to take care of the new project at the start (see Section
2.2 for details). It is important to take proactive action to enable the early engagement of
the required implementation support services prior to the physical works implementation
to prepare for the design and bidding processes, and to properly supervise the
implementation progress and quality. In Indonesia, it is particularly important to start and
monitor the consultant selection process before the loan signing.

6.3 Sub-national financing arrangements need to be carefully designed to effectively
support sub-national components in Indonesia. The systemic issue of the on-grant
agreement (see Section 2.2 for details) caused many of the delays and problems with the
sub-national works component, withdrawal of 10 sub-national governments (about 22%)
from the project, and a large number of shifting from the sub-national road programs to
the national road program. The on-grant agreement, which necessitated the sub-national
governments to pre-finance 100% of the works, of which the loan portion was reimbursed
later, was an unpopular arrangement among the sub-national governments. Ironically, the
solution provided by the national government associated with the expiration of the on-
grant agreement after March 31, 2009 was a better arrangement for sub-national
governments, as they did not need 100% pre-financing.
6.4 The loan closing date needs to take into account the country’s fiscal year start/end
and budget procedures in Indonesia. A loan closing date in the early part of the calendar
year in Indonesia (which is the same as the fiscal year) can be problematic because new
budgets are usually not available in the first few months of each year—which is the same
time that the rush of final payments for project activities would occur (see Section 2.2 for
details). Therefore, projects should avoid closing first quarter closing dates (January-
March). The best time would be December.

6.5 Components outside of the scope or responsibility of the implementing agency have
very little chance of successful implementation. This needs a thoughtful project design
particularly for sub-national assistance. The national government was able to manage
civil works components including sub-national programs, but the decentralization support
TAs (MSDI and PPB-2 particularly) were not fully owned by the implementing agency.
The Ministry of Home Affairs was responsible for MSDI, but the Ministry was outside of
the accountability of the whole project, and it led to the delays and finally cancellation.
The PPBP-2 was also not fully owned by the DGH as these were not their mandate (see
Annex 2 for details). The TAs should be designed to benefit the implementing agency, in
at least some way, to strengthen the IA’s incentives to properly implement them. The
failure to implement Component 1-5 (facilities serving interfaces between road and non-
road transport services) was also due to the fact that the scope of work was not within the
field of expertise of the DGH, and the DGH did not have strong incentives for
implementation (see Annex 2 for details).

6.6 Initial civil works design quality has a significant role in ensuring proper
implementation. Poor quality of AWP-1 design indicated that insufficient attention was
given to the initial design phase of the project. This could typically be solved by proper



                                            19
contract variations with technical adjustments during the construction phase. However,
governments in Indonesia, both national and sub-national, try to strictly avoid a
significant increase of the contract price associated with variations in order to avoid the
criticism of allowing opportunity for corruption. This often results in poor quality of the
final output without the necessary design variations to be properly taken care of. The
quality of initial design is particularly important in this environment to avoid the large
variation orders at the implementation stage.

6.7 Effective empowerment of civil society in ACAP requires sufficient budgeting to
cover reasonable costs. Community Representative Observers (CROs) attended all the
bid openings in the project, but many of CROs did not submit the required reports
because they were not provided sufficient allowances and expense payments. The low
interest among NGOs in participating in the Third Party Monitoring (TPM) was partly
due to the lack of sufficient compensation to cover the time and expense of doing the
required reporting (see Section 2.4-b for details). As these civil society empowerment
mechanisms are expected to become the norm for ACAP arrangements in ongoing and
future Bank projects, proper compensation arrangements will be an important factor in
attracting civil society to participate in the project monitoring process.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not applicable

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                            20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                Appraisal               Actual/Latest
                                                                                                  Percentage of
            Components                           Estimate                  Estimate
                                                                                                   Appraisal
                                             (USD millions)a           (USD millions)
1. Civil Works for Preservation
   of Roads and Transport                            183.48                    211.98                  116.3 %
   Facilities
2. Implementation Support                             29.00                     31.94                  106.8 %
3. Road Sector Capacity
                                                        8.70                      2.62                   30.1 %
   Building
              Total Baseline Cost                    221.18                    233.95                  105.8 %
Physical Contingencies                                20.18                     ---                      ---
Price Contingencies                                   20.18                     ---                      ---
Taxes                                                 26.35                     24.65                    93.5 %
               Total Project Costs                   287.89                    271.18                    94.2 %
Front-end fee PPF                                       0.00                      0.00                   ---
Front-end fee IBRD                                      2.00                      1.00                   50.0 %
      Total Financing Required                       289.89                    272.18                    93.9 %
a. From the PAD (p. 8). Does not include the national government’s recurrent administrative costs nor interest during
construction.



(b) Financing
                                                                  Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                               Type of            Estimate           Estimate     Percentage
          Source of Funds
                                             Cofinancing           (USD               (USD       of Appraisal
                                                                  millions)          millions)
Borrower a                                                             89.89              84.32           93.8 %
International Bank for
                                                                      200.00             187.86           93.9 %
Reconstruction and Development
                  Total                                               289.89             272.18           93.9 %
a. Borrower financing includes national, provincial, and local governments.




                                                          21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Annex 2-a. Outputs by Component
Component 1. Civil Works for Preservation of Roads and Transport Facilities
(US$183.48 million, PAD; US$213.88 million, ICR)
The civil works originally consisted of five sub-components, those were rehabilitation
(periodic maintenance)3, betterment (upgrading) and bridge replacement of: (1) national
inter-urban roads; (2) national urban roads; (3) provincial roads; (4) kabupaten roads; and
(5) improvements to facilities serving interfaces between road and non-road transport
services, such as small sea ports, ferry terminals and local airports. The following table
summarizes the initial and final civil works by lengths of roads and bridges:
                                  PAD Estimated                                        Actual                       Change (%)
           Investment                 Cost    Cost/km                            *1     Cost       Cost/km        By         By
                           Length                                       Length
                                    (US$ m) (US$ k)                                   (US$ m)      (US$ k)       Length   Cost/km
      National Inter-urban Roads
      Rehabilitation (km)   124.1     8.16      65.8                      47.2          6.20         131.4       - 62.0%      199.8%
      Betterment (km)        90.2     8.05      89.2                      392.2        68.69         175.1       434.8%       196.2%
      Bridges (m)           696.0     4.42       6.4                      816.0        12.34         15.1        117.2%       238.1%
      National Urban Roads
      Rehabilitation (km)  58.4                5.37         92.0          51.8          6.74         130.1       - 11.3%      141.5%
      Betterment (km)      51.0                7.22         141.6         19.5          6.25         320.5       - 61.8%      226.4%
      Bridges (m)          0.0                 0.00          0.0           4.8          0.44         91.7           ---         ---
      Provincial Roads
      Rehabilitation (km)         372.9        19.31         51.8         120.7         9.08         75.2        - 67.6%      145.3%
      Betterment (km)             438.1        41.49         94.7         179.2        31.94         178.2       - 54.1%      188.2%
      Bridges (m)                1,148.0       7.98           7.0         588.4         6.26          9.0        - 39.5%      129.7%
      Kabupaten Roads
      Rehabilitation (km)        1,049.7       25.26         24.1         273.5        14.29          52.2       - 66.9%      217.1%
      Betterment (km)             934.8        43.89         47.0         458.9        41.28          90.0       - 46.3%      191.6%
      Bridges (m)                 498.0        1.33           2.7         108.5         1.14           8.9       - 74.2%      332.2%
      Total
      Rehabilitation (km)        1,605.1       58.10         36.2        493.2        36.31          73.6        - 64.6%      203.4%
      Betterment (km)            1,514.1      100.65         66.5       1,049.8       148.16         141.1       - 26.4%      212.3%
      Bridges (m)                2,342.0       13.73          5.9       1,517.7       20.18          12.3        - 29.8%      209.4%
     *1 This does not include N.B.F length (see Section 3.2-i) for the purpose of computing the project’s unit costs.

Initially (in the PAD) the project intended to encompass 10 provinces and about 37
kabupatens in the Eastern Indonesia Region, and arranged 230 contract packages at the
time of loan negotiation. These were reduced to 9 provinces and 29 kabupatens with 153
contract packages through the project period, and eventually 104 contract packages were
completed, while 49 sub-projects were either cancelled, deleted or combined with others.
The reduction in the number of packages and the length of road was primarily to cope



3
    The term “rehabilitation? applied to rehabilitating the pavement surface, not full-depth reconstruction of the pavement structure.




                                                                     22
with the almost doubled Construction Price Index in Indonesia between January 2005 and
December 2010 (see Section 2.2), as it can be seen from the km-cost change in the table
above.
Sub-component (5) (Transport Facilities) was not implemented. This was mostly because
the scope of the works was not within the field of expertise in DGH, and without
identified sub-projects at appraisal, the efforts to identify the sub-projects through other
agencies early in the project did not have strong incentives.
Component 2. Implementation Support (US$29.00 million, PAD; US$29.12 million,
ICR)
This component covered consulting services and a small amount of equipment required to
support implementation of the project in order to enhance quality and technical efficiency
of the works, as well as provision of funds for incremental operating costs for the project
Management Unit (PMU) and the Directorate of Technical Affairs in the DGH, and for
the conduct of technical audits by the Inspectorate General of the MPW. The consulting
services consisted of the following:
(i) Core Team Consultants (CTC). A team of consultants was engaged by the DGH to
    provide a management support to the PMU, the DGH and Provincial Project
    Management Offices (PPMO) in each province. The CTC was employed for 5.5 years
    (February 2006 to September 2011). Their support included finalization of AWP-2
    and 3, environmental management and monitoring for all works, monitoring of
    Performance Indicators, the legal and Anti-Corruption Action Plan, accounting and
    financial management support, documentation and reporting. The total cost was
    US$8.52 million.
(ii) Regional Design and Supervision Consultants (RDSCs). This included three (3)
     teams of consultants for design and construction supervision since December 2006.
     Before RDSCs were mobilized, five teams of Design and Supervision Consultants
     (DSC) from EIRTP-1 were extended after the loan closing date of EIRTP-1 (June 30,
     2006) to provide interim supervision for AWP-1 in the provinces of Central
     Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi, Maluku and Papua for a total cost
     of US$0.83 million. Interim supervision for 18 packages in South Sulawesi and West
     Sulawesi for 5 to 7 months in 2006 was provided by the CTC at a cost of US$0.06
     million. Total design and supervision cost for EIRTP-2 was US$19.80 million,
     equivalent to 9.7% of the civil works cost (excluding taxes). RDSCs were allocated
     to provinces corresponding to the Implementation Sub-Directorates in the DGH.
     These are summarized as follows:
                                                                                                            % by     % by
   Teams                 Province                      Base        Service Period        Final Cost*
                                                                                                           length    Value
             South Kalimantan, Central                               Dec 2006 –
  RDSC-1                                          Banjarmasin                           US$3.67 mil.        8%       10%
             Kalimantan, West Kalimantan                              Feb 2011
             South Sulawesi, West Sulawesi,
                                                                     Dec 2006 –
  RDSC-2     Central Sulawesi, Southeast            Makassar                            US$8.55mil.         69%      61%
                                                                     June 2011
             Sulawesi, NTB, NTT
             Maluku, North Maluku, Papua,           Jayapura/        Dec 2006 –
  RDSC-3                                                                                US$6.69mil.         23%      29%
             West Papua                              Ambon            Dec 2010
                           Total                                                       US$18.91 mil.       100%      100%
   * US$ equivalent indicates the amount disbursed under the IBRD loan and exclude VAT which is paid by Government



                                                          23
(iii) Management Support for Decentralized Institution (MSDI). This TA was originally
      intended to strengthen performance-based budgeting for infrastructure development
      by sub-national governments under the project, promote coordination of community
      awareness of the project, and promote region-based community participation in the
      project. The TOR was revised by Directorate General of Regional Development
      (DGRD) in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA) to define the roles and relationship
      of key stakeholders in transport management; prepare Draft Guidelines and Standard
      Operating Procedures for application of good governance principles by key
      stakeholders; and assist the concerned sub-national government agencies in one
      province, one kabupaten and one Kota to implement the guidelines and SOPs through
      on-the-job training.
    The two time procurement attempts continued from December 2005 to August 2009,
    but failed. Due to the time limitation, the Bank requested in October 2009 to revise
    the TOR for a 6-months task, and the TOR was revised to focus on preparing
    Regional Accountability Reports for transport-related activities and assets to
    contribute to the decentralization of planning and management responsibilities during
    the limited time. In April 2010 the DGRD informed the PMU that MSDI was not
    included in 2010 budget as the MoHA had rejected the budget. The DGRD requested
    the DGH to accommodate MSDI, but the DGH informed the DGRD that the DGH
    cannot accommodate MSDI as the nature of the services was outside of DGH’s
    function. The DGRD decided to cancel the MSDI component in November 2010,
    and the TA was formally cancelled in March 2011 Loan Amendment with the
    extension of the closing date.
(iv) Equipment. This sub-component originally included three packages of “Goods? in
     the original sub-component. It consisted of bridge trusses (EIG-1), laboratory
     equipment for materials testing by the RDSCs (EIG-2), and a small amount of office
     and communications equipment to support management of project implementation by
     the Directorate of Technical Affairs in the DGH (EIG-3). The procurement of
     vehicles for project management was originally included in the CTC services, but the
     Bank requested the DGH to procure the vehicles as Goods contracts, and it was
     eventually arranged in two NCB packages (EIB-4).
                        Implementation Support: Goods (US$)
            Contract                    Goods                    Final Cost
              EIG-1    Bridge Trusses                            US$2.64 mil.
              EIG-2    Material Testing Equipments               US$1.23 mil.
              EIG-3    Information Technology Equipment          US$0.48 mil.
              EIG-4    Vehicles                                  US$0.20 mil.
                                         Total                   US$4.54 mil.

(v) Incremental Operating Costs for DGH-PMU. These costs included the DGH staff
    travel, per-diem, communications, consumables, web-page establishment and
    maintenance, advertisement of bidding, printing and publication of project
    information, rental of meeting facilities, but excluded staff salaries. Provision was



                                             24
   also made for the conduct of technical audit by the Inspectorate General of MPW.
   The total cost was US$0.91 million excluding tax.

Component 3. Technical Assistance for Road Sector Support (US$8.70 million, PAD;
US$2.62 million, ICR)
This component consisted of (a) technical assistance and (b) training to support the road
sector improvements in Eastern Indonesia Region, with an emphasis on facilitating the
ongoing decentralization process.
(a) Technical Assistance, consisting of: (i) extension of the initiative started under
    EIRTP-1 in the development of planning, programming and budgeting procedures
    (PPBP) with particular emphasis on providing support for kabupaten staff for
    maintenance planning and management; (ii) further support for establishment of the
    Road Fund and the Road Board started under EIRTP-1; (iii) expansion of the traffic
    and road asset monitoring systems (TRAMS) started under EIRTP-1 to cover
    provincial and local roads; (iv) improving management of environmental and socio-
    cultural impacts of road development in environmentally sensitive areas; and (v)
    development of a medium-term (10 to 15 year) road network development needs for
    Kalimantan, taking into account the likely future roles of waterways and coastal
    shipping, the need for institutional capacity building in local institutions, and policy
    initiatives needed to assist regional development and transport provision in an
    environmentally fragile region.
   (i) Consolidation of Planning, Programming and Budgeting Procedures (PPBP-
       2): This activity was intended to continue the initiatives established under EIRTP-
       1, with particular emphasis given to supporting the development and
       implementation of procedures used by kabupaten staff in all aspects of the
       identification, planning, programming and preparation of projects for inclusion in
       the Annual Works Programs. The DGH proposed to the Bank Mission in
       November 2006 to delete this sub-component since the DGH was not directly
       involved in sub-national road planning. The Bank intended further discussions
       with the DGH, but the Bank Mission in October 2009 concluded that there was
       not enough time for the original study, and requested that TOR for a 6 month task
       be prepared. During the Bank Mission in May 2010, the DGH proposed to include
       a simplified PPBP-2 in the CTC services due to the lack of time for new
       procurement. The proposal was to limit the PPBP-2 services to an assessment of
       the current status of SK-77 data, and the Bank provided no objection to the TOR.
       However, the CTC could not find appropriate staff to implement it in the specified
       time, and the DGH decided not to proceed, and the TA was formally cancelled in
       March 2011 Loan Amendment with the extension of the closing date.
   (ii) Continuation of Support for Establishment of Road Funds (RBRF-2): This
        activity was intended to continue support as may be required for initiatives
        already underway in EIRTP-1. RBRF-2 was to continue support for
        implementation, to provide legal, institutional, economic and engineering support
        for the establishment and initial operation of commercially managed Road Funds
        for road maintenance. However, the initiative was not supported by the Ministry



                                            25
       of Finance and the Ministry of Home Affairs, and this TA was dropped in the
       Project Restructuring in June 2009.
   (iii)Traffic and Road Asset Monitoring Systems for EIRTP-2 (TRAMS-2): This
        activity was intended to expand the TRAMS-1 initiative for national roads under
        EIRTP-1 to provincial and kabupaten roads. The main functions of TRAMS are to
        develop appropriate survey methods and procedures for sustainable regular
        collection of road and traffic data consistent with the needs of the related planning
        and monitoring systems. However, the DGH decided that it was premature to
        undertake TRAMS-2 in the lower technological environment of provincial and
        kabupaten roads, and that the existing manual technology would be more
        appropriate for the time being. This TA was dropped in the project Restructuring
        in June 2009.
   (iv) Improving Management of Environmental and Socio-Cultural Impacts of Road
        Development in Sensitive Areas (IMES): This activity was intended to (a)
        prepare standard procedures for road development sub-projects involving
        environmentally sensitive areas and communities of isolated vulnerable peoples,
        including screening, management and monitoring procedures, (b) carrying out
        pilot studies to demonstrate the procedures, and (c) providing the DGH with
        training and other resources to support related activities. The contract was
        awarded on January 12, 2007 and completed with a Workshop on 28 July 2008
        for a cost of US$0.56 million. Four Independent Reviewers with acknowledged
        expertise in the fields of environment, transport, forestry, social and cultural
        sciences, reviewed the key reports produced by the consultant.
   (v) Kalimantan Road Network Development Study (KRNDS): This activity was
       intended to identify an environmentally-sustainable road network development
       plan for Kalimantan for the next 15 years, and identify two five-year
       implementation plans for the periods 5-10 years and 10-15 years including the
       potential for future coastal shipping and river transport. The contract was signed
       on August 31, 2006, and the final report was submitted in April 2008. The final
       cost was US$1.35 million.

(b) Training, consisting of consulting services to (i) cover the feasibility of
    institutionalizing the Training Needs Analysis function in local government; (ii)
    review and revision of five training courses, delivery of seven existing courses which
    were not included in EIRTP-1, development of two additional Computer Interactive
    Training courses; (iii) updating the Training Management Information System; and
    (iv) supporting the training of about 40 road officials to the masters degree program
    within Indonesia, and 26 road officials to the masters degree program under
    collaboration between the Ministry of Public Works and the Asian Institute of
    Technology (AIT).
    DGH Training. The intended services for (i), (ii) and (iii) were dropped from the
     project due to the new GoI policy after 2004 to use its own funds, not foreign
     loans, to develop internal courses and to conduct training, so the DGH financed
     these services with the government budget.



                                            26
 Masters Degree Training. The training (iv) was divided into two parts, (1) In-
  country and (2) Overseas-in-part. (1) Four senior Indonesian universities were
  engaged to provide Master’s Degree courses for 40 students in the topics specified
  under this program, of which 39 had completed their degrees by June 2011.
  Courses fees were provided from the loan at a cost of US$0.34 million, while
  students’ allowances were financed by GOI. Among the 40 students, 16 were from
  Eastern Indonesia Region; 4 of the 40 students were women, but none of them
  were from Eastern Indonesia Region. The main reasons for difficulty to recruit
  students from the Eastern Region were: lack of budget and telecommunication
  hardware in the BHMRD department and in kabupatens, no support from the
  project for participants’ traveling expenses, and reluctance of managers to release
  their staff for two years of study. (2) A second Master’s Degree program was
  arranged with the Asian Institute of Technology’s branch in Indonesia (AIT-CI)
  for 26 students, who completed part of their degrees in Bangkok and part in
  Bandung. The eligible cost from the loan was US$0.37 million.




                                       27
Annex 2-b. Note on Measurement of Performance Indicators 2a and 2b

1. Performance Indicator 2a: Number of Provinces using economic-based priority-
   setting procedures, with staff who understand and can apply them.
   The target value for the indicator was eleven (11) according to the PAD. The
   indicator was originally supposed to cover all the participating provinces. Although
   the total number of “participating? provinces in ERITP-2 was 13, one province
   (South Kalimantan) included only kabupaten roads in the project, and two (West
   Nusa Tenggara and East Nusa Tenggara) included only national and kabupaten roads,
   so the number of “participating? provinces with provincial roads to be improved
   under the project, which should have been the target for this indicator, were 10. So
   the original target should have been ten (10) instead of eleven (11).

   The original intention of this indicator was to measure the extent of application of
   “economic-based priority-setting procedures? which were introduced to the provinces
   under the PPBP (Planning, Programming and Budgeting Procedures) TA component
   under EIRTP-1 (August 2003 – June 2006). This procedure was proposed to be built
   in the IIRMS (Integrated Indonesian Road Management System) adapted to regional
   government requirements or a new system which was expected to fulfill similar
   objectives. However, the PPBP services under EIRTP-1 were still involved in
   adjusting the under-developing IIRMS for use at the central level, and could not be
   made available for practical use at province level.

   Due to the vague specification of this indicator, it was agreed between the Bank
   mission and DGH at June 2009 Restructuring that “using economic-based priority-
   setting procedures? should be based on evidence of availability of traffic counting and
   analysis, while “with staff who understand and can apply them? should be clarified by
   identifying the status of personnel who managed the counts (to exclude the national
   level staff) and by checking evidence of correct conversion traffic count data to
   AADT. However, the sample was not sufficient to determine the performance of the
   participating provinces, so another supplementary indicator was measured as
   explained in Section 3, below.

2. Performance Indicator 2b: Percentage of project kabupaten with adequate funding
   for routine maintenance of JJP network (based on budget allocation).
   The target value for the indicator was 85% of the participating kabupaten according
   to the PAD. The number of participating kabupaten kept changed through the project
   life, and 9 kabupaten out of the original 37 withdrew or were deleted from the project
   during its lifetime, including one kabupaten which withdrew after completion of one
   contract package (kabupaten Hulu Sungai Utara in South Kalimantan). So the
   definition of the target value was ambiguous.

   The measurement of this indicator was indicating the collection of annual data on the
   budget which each kabupaten allocated to routine maintenance of its priority road
   network (JJP). A questionnaire was designed by the PMU/CTC to identify from 2005
   to 2010 to obtain:


                                           28
   -     Names of all road links handled by APBD (from all sources) each year,
   -     Pavement width on each link,
   -     Length of works on each link,
   -     Allocation of funds for each link,
   -     Total length of kabupaten roads at the end of each year.
   However, the maintenance program data was obtained only for 12 kabupaten, and the
   sample was not sufficient to measure the adequacy of funds for routine maintenance
   of the participating kabupaten. So another supplementary indicator was measured as
   explained in Section 3.

3. Supplemental Indicator for Performance Indicators 2a and 2b: Management
   Performance of Provinces and Kabupatens
   Due to inadequate data availability for measuring the original Indicator 2a and 2b, the
   measurement was substituted to include an outcome indicator of “management
   performance? of the province and kabupaten governments in line with the PDO
   related to Indicator 2a and 2b, which was “Support decentralization of planning and
   management responsibilities.?

   Data available for measuring performance of each participating province and
   kabupaten included:
       (i) Timeliness: Original construction period divided by actual construction period
           for each non-terminated contract;
   (ii) Documentation: Availability of completion documents for each non-terminated
        contract; and
   (iii) Success Rate: Least number of failed or terminated packages.
   Data for these three indexes have different characteristics; (i) was quantitative,
   measured in days; (ii) was a set of four categories indicating completeness of data;
   while (iii) was numerical, a count of contract packages. The 100% achievement
   means: (i) all works completed on schedule; (ii) completion documentation for all
   completed packages; and (iii) no terminated or failed contracts. The three indexes
   were weighted equally by simple averaging.

   The scores for (ii) were calculated based on the following criteria:

           Fully             Work complete, some documents available
                                                                                Work complete, no
         complete      Copy of PHO, Minutes of       Only a copy of PHO and     documents available
        documents   Handover and As-Built Drawings    Minutes of Handover
          100%                  70%                           40%                      0%


   Results for Supplementary Indicator 2a:
              Province           Timeliness   Documentation   Success Rate    Average Score    Rank
                Papua              69%           100%            100%             90%           1
            West Papua              87%           70%            100%             86%           2
           West Kalimantan          38%           100%           100%             79%           3



                                                  29
    Central Kalimantan          88%            40%            100%            76%          4
         Maluku                 56%            40%            100%            65%          5
     South Sulawesi             100%            0%             67%            56%          6
    Southeast Sulawesi          93%            40%             33%            56%          7
     Central Sulawesi           91%             0%             75%            55%          8
      West Sulawesi             47%             0%             0%             38%          9
         Average                64%            39%            82%             62%


Results for Supplementary Indicator 2b:
      Kabupaten (Prov)        Timeliness   Documentation   Success Rate   Average Score   Rank
       Kapuas (C. Kal)          89%           100%            100%            96%           1
         Bima (NTB)             94%            70%            100%            88%           2
   Manokwari (W. Papua)         94%            70%            100%            88%           2
    Barito Timur (C. Kal)       90%            70%            100%            87%           4
     Fakfak (W. Papua)          87%            70%            100%            86%           5
 Hulu Sungai utara (S. Kal)     100%           40%            100%            80%           6
    Biak Numfor (Papua)         99%            40%            100%            80%           7
     Jayawijaya (Papua)          91%           40%            100%            77%           8
         Alor (NTT)             90%            40%            100%            77%           9
         Ende (NTT)             90%            40%            100%            77%           9
       Dompu (NTB)               88%           40%            100%            76%          11
       Paniai (Papua)           85%            40%            100%            75%          12
      Mamuju (W. Sul)            79%           40%            100%            73%          13
   Lombok Tengah (NTB)          75%            40%            100%            72%          14
 Timor Tengah Utara (NTT)       73%            40%            100%            71%          15
        Bone (S. Sul)           100%            0%            100%            67%          16
       Takalar (S. Sul)         99%             0%            100%            66%          17
    Tana Toraja (S. Sul)         96%            0%            100%            65%          18
     Bulukumba (S. Sul)          95%            0%            100%            65%          19
        Sinjai (S. Sul)         91%             0%            100%            64%          20
      Bantaeng (S. Sul)         82%             0%            100%            61%          21
       Yapen (Papua)            40%            40%            100%            60%          22
  Parigi Moutong (C. Sul)       100%            0%             75%            58%          23
       Sidrap (S. Sul)          51%             0%            100%            50%          24
        Buol (C. Sul)           100%            0%             50%            50%          25
       Maros (S. Sul)           100%            0%             50%            50%          25
      Majene (W. Sul)           100%            0%             50%            50%          25
      Donggala (C. Sul)         72%             0%             67%            46%          28
      Toli Toli (C. Sul)         55%            0%             50%            35%          29
         Average                86%            22%            91%             66%




                                               30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1 Methodology at Appraisal Estimate
The economic evaluation at appraisal was carried out for the four category of the project:
(i) national inter-urban roads and bridges, (ii) national urban roads, (iii) provincial roads
and bridges, and (iv) kabupaten Roads. The civil works categories were rehabilitation
(periodic maintenance), betterment (upgrading) and bridge replacement.                    The
methodology used for the economic evaluation at appraisal was the following:

  National Inter-urban Roads and Provincial Roads: the Economic Review Module
   (ERM) in the IIRMS (Indonesian Integrated Road Management System) with an
   analysis period of 30 years,
  National Urban Roads: the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-III)
   with the congestion modeling add-on (HDM Q), with an analysis period of 20 years,
  Kabupaten Roads: the Kabupaten Road Planning Procedures (SK-77), plus a special
   spreadsheet to estimate EIRR from NPV, as the SK-77 procedures did not estimate
   EIRR. The analysis period incorporated in SK-77 was 10 years.
  Bridges: the Indonesian Bridge Management System (IBMS), which predicts the
   year in which an existing bridge becomes unusable, and then a special bridge
   replacement spreadsheet.

The appraisal estimate was carried out in 2003/04, in which the works were grouped into
contract packages for three annual work programs (AWPs), and the economic evaluation
was presented for AWP-1, and for consolidated AWP-2 and 3. The discount rate was
15% for all the analysis. The appraisal estimate used a standard assumption of annual
traffic growth of 4.5 to 5.0 percent and a ratio of economic to financial pricing of 0.91.

3.2 Methodology for Post-Project Economic Analysis
Initially it was planned to follow the same methodologies to perform the post-project
economic analysis by category or roads, but it had faced with a number of difficulties.
There were so many changes in the location of the works, in particular as a result of
reducing the package length, the type of works carried out, so that a direct comparison of
the results was not meaningful. Also, an examination of completed roads showed that the
road condition and the traffic levels have often not followed normally predicted trends.
This meant that the IIRMS and especially the SK-77 were not suitable for evaluating the
completed packages. The SK-77 has built-in benefit levels that assume a 10-year life of
the project with the road remaining in good/fair condition, and traffic increasing at
constant rates. These benefits cannot be changed to reflect those appropriate for observed
varying conditions. The IIRMS has limitations in applying the observed road conditions.

For the above reasons, the post-project economic analysis used HDM-4 for all the
categories of roads. HDM-4, the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
version 2.08, the latest available version has a number of advantages for performing this
analysis. This is a comprehensive model that is able to simulate all the parameters
applicable in assessing the packages, and it has a flexibility to reflect observed


                                             31
conditions. At the same time, however, it was necessary to restrict the analysis to a
limited number of road links compared with the total project in order to collect enough
information to undertake a valid and comparable evaluation. The project packages were
located all over in the Eastern Indonesia Region with a variety of different government
agencies in charge, and the length, type of improvements or even location were often
changed since appraisal during the implementation period of 7 years. The representing
packages for each category were therefore selected where the original appraisal survey
data were available and still valid for definition of the base case.

3.3 Assumptions
Periods: The evaluation periods used were slightly changed from those used for the
appraisal estimates. In all cases the base year was specified as 2005, the first year in
which works were carried out in any package. Capital costs were allocated to the years
2005 to 2011 according to the reported implementation period of civil works, but in the
cases where the effective completion was assumed earlier than the final completion the
effective completion was used to start producing benefits. A 20-year benefit period was
used for national and provincial roads and a 10-year period was used for kabupaten roads.
In the appraisal estimate an overall 30-year period was used for national and provincial
roads, but the use of a 20-year period makes little difference to the results, and simplifies
the analysis in which reconstruction and further upgrading assumptions need not be
considered.

Prices: The evaluation was conducted with the Indonesian Rupiah, and was conducted on
the conventional basis of constant prices, that is without including the impact of inflation
on prices. Prices in 2005 were used to define the base year price levels except for fuel
prices and passenger time values. The fuel price considered the long-term pricing in the
view of the significant inflations occurred during the project life. Passenger time values
are likely to increase in real terms, which is faster than the general price level if economic
growth rates above population growth are sustained. The passenger time values therefore
included an allowance for future real increases in value. The ratio of economic to
financial pricing of 0.91 as in the appraisal assumption was kept for the conversion factor
for non-traded goods.

Traffic: Traffic data was assembled from a number of sources to provide estimates of
traffic levels from the first year of benefits for each road section to the present time. The
main source of traffic data was the counts carried out by the RDSCs who monitored
selected roads before and after the works implementation. The future traffic growth rate
was assumed as 5% per year was adopted for the evaluation from 2011 onwards. Given
that there have been periods with traffic growth well above this on several packages
studied, this was a conservative assumption and makes the appraisal/post-project
comparison meaningful.

3.4 Evaluation Results
The results of the evaluation are summarized in the following table in terms of EIRR.
The appraisal estimate showed EIRR as the sole indicator for economic evaluation as the
tools used for the analysis did not all report NPV.


                                             32
                                   EIRR at Appraisal           EIRR at Appraisal          EIRR at Post-
           Road Type              Estimate (All Project)            Estimate            Project Estimate
                                  AWP-1       AWP-2&3           (Selected Links*)       (Selected Links*)
       National Inter-urban         48%            65%               106.0%                   108.2%
          National Urban           104%           104%                85.1%                   96.8%
            Provincial              54%            46%                18.7%                   24.7%
            Kabupaten               61%            52%                57.4%                   35.8%
     * The selected links for Appraisal Estimate were the same links as the selected links for Post-Project
       Estimate for comparison, which represents about 15-20% of the total road links.

The results show a wide range in EIRR as was in the appraisal estimate, and a good level
of consistency with the selected links. The EIRR for selected kabupaten roads was lower
than that of the appraisal estimate, but still justifies the investment in overall. The actual
costs of construction were much higher than the appraisal estimate, but the benefits were
also much higher since the benefit values have shown large increases and most of the
roads had deteriorated further before implementation started, which increased the gap
between before and after conditions.




                                                        33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Hatim M. Hajj             TTL/Lead Transport Specialist      EASTR
David Hawes               Economist                          EASTR
Robert Scouller           Engineer                           EASTR
Thomas Walton             Environment                        EACIF
Farida Zaituni            Environment                        EACIF
Sulistiowati Nainggolan   Social Scientist                   EACIF
Robert Saum               Financial Management Systems       EAPCO
Novira Asra               Finance                            EACIF
Mei Wang                  Legal                              LEGEA
Glen Morgan               Quality Assurance, Environment     EASES
Bruce Harris              Quality Assurance, Social          EASES
Joel Hellman              Quality Assurance, Governance      EACIF
Imogene Jensen            Quality Assurance, Economics       EASTR
Fran Lewis                Task Assistant                     EASTR
Sri Oktorini              Task Assistant                     EACIF
Naseer Rana               Procurement & Anti-Corruption      EACIF
Firman Dharmawan          Procurement & Anti-Corruption      EACIF
Steven Burgess            Anti-Corruption                    EACIF
Christopher Bennett       Technical Issues                   EASTR
 Jerry Lebo               Economist                           ESTR
Supervision/ICR
Dayu Nirma Amurwanti      Operations Analyst                    EACIF
Novira Kusdarti Asra      Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM
Mitsuyoshi Asada          TTL/Sr. Transport Specialist          EASIN
Mustapha Benmaamar        Sr. Transport Specialist              EASIS
Christopher R. Bennett    Sr. Transport Specialist              EASNS
Peter M. Brandriss        Operations Analyst                    EASSD
Steven Charles Burgess    Senior Operations Officer             EAPCO
Sally L. Burningham       TTL/Operations Adviser                LCSDE
Indira Dharmapatni        Senior Operations Officer             EASIS
Alain M. Dube             Consultant                            EASCS
Mesra Eza                 E T Consultant                      EASTE - HIS
Petrus Benjamin Gericke   Lead Transport Specialist             ECSS5
Imogene B. Jensen         Consultant                            EASNS Transport Economy
Woo Hyun Kwon             Untitled                              EASIN Transport Engineering
Jerry A. Lebo             Sr. Operations Officer                CFPTP
Zhentu Liu                Sr. Procurement Specialist            EAPPR
Enggar Prasetyaningsih    Procurement Analyst                   EAPPR
Angus Mackay              Consultant                          EASRE - HIS
James Orehmie Monday      Sr. Environmental Engineer            EASTS



                                              34
Sulistiowati Ms.            Consultant                            EASPR
Anna R. Okola               Transport. Engineer                   LCSTR
Sri Oktorini                Program Assistant                     EACIF
Imad Saleh                  Lead Procurement Specialist           EAPPR
Rustini Salim               Temporary                             EASIS
                                                                            Environmental
Virza S. Sasmitawidjaja     Consultant                            EASIS
                                                                            Safeguard
Robert Scouller             Consultant                           EASHD
Andrew Daniel Sembel        Environmental Specialist             EASIS
Francisca Melia Setiawati   Consultant                           EASIS     Social Safeguard
Mariana Torres Montoya      Junior Professional Associate      EASTE - HIS
Dewi Wandansari             Consultant                           EASIS     Transport Engineering


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                               7                       44.88
  FY03                                              16                       96.20
  FY04                                              31                      182.82
             Total:                                 54                      323.90
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                          N/A                           0.67
  FY05                                           17                          83.54
  FY06                                           30                          88.01
  FY07                                           45                         120.47
  FY08                                           59                         121.33
  FY09                                           46                         125.21
  FY10                                           34                         118.92
  FY11                                           28                         111.65
  FY12                                           15                          83.22
             Total:                             274                         853.02




                                               35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(Not Applicable)




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(Not Applicable)




                                     37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Executive Summary
1. Project Background
Since a mechanism for channeling Loan funds to the sub-national level was not yet available, the
Bank and GOI decided in October 2000 to split the proposed Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
Project into one Project for the preservation of national and strategic roads as the first Eastern
Indonesia Region Transport Project (EIRTP-1, Loan 4643-IND, 2002 – 2006), and a Second Eastern
Indonesia Region Transport Project (EIRTP-2, Loan 4774-IND) which was signed on 23 July 2004.
The agency responsible for preparing and implementing the project was the Directorate General of
Highways (DGH) within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). Regional Autonomy in 1999 had
severed the hierarchical links between Works Agencies at Central, Provincial and Kabupaten/Kota
(district/municipal) levels, so preparation and then implementation of EIRTP-2 was managed by an
institution responsible for National roads. Management of each package was handled by Non-Vertical
Project Units (SNVT) – units without hierarchical (vertical) links to MPW. DGH took great care not
to give technical instructions to SNVT units at sub-national level.
2. Brief Description of the Project
The project encompassed 13 provinces, 14 cities and 57 kabupaten in the Eastern Indonesia Region
(EIR). Before loan negotiation, 530 sub-projects were selected and arranged in 230 contract packages.
Only about half of the projects and lengths in the three-year program were eventually constructed,
primarily due to a doubling of the Construction Price Index in Indonesia between January 2005 and
December 2010, and also due to withdrawal of regions.
Regional Governments prefinanced all works costs before Loan Restructuring in June 2009. The loan
reimbursed various percentages of works and GOI financed the balance. Loan-reimbursed percentages
started at 30% (for Provinces or Kabupaten with above average fiscal capacity (FC), 60% (for
Provinces or Kabupaten with average FC), 70% (for National roads and bridges, prefinanced by GOI)
and 90% (for Provinces or Kabupaten with below average FC). Project components are described in
the following sections.
2.1 Project Component A: Civil Works
Component A valued at US$211.18 million net of tax (8.1% less than the PAD estimate) included
rehabilitation and betterment of roads and bridge replacement on A.1) National Inter-urban Roads
(US$87.39 million, 3.4 times the PAD estimate); A.2) National Urban Roads in 10 cities (US$13.42
million, 12.3% less than the PAD estimate); A.3) Provincial Roads (US$53.22 million, 38% less than
the PAD estimate); and A.4) Provincial Roads (US$57.15 million, 41% less than the PAD estimate).
A fifth original sub-component without Loan funding, improvements to facilities serving interfaces
between road and non-road transport services such as small sea ports, ferry terminals and local
airports, was not implemented. Project Component A included Pre-fabricated Steel Truss Bridge
Materials procured for US$2.64 million in 2005, the cost of which is included under A.1 and A.3
above in proportion to the length of bridge trusses allocated to each network.
The reallocation from Provincial and Kabupaten roads to National roads was due to slow
implementation of the former, coupled with GOI support for National road infrastructure development
in the new province of West Sulawesi which was established on 5 October 2004, as well as for the
National road link across Seram Island in Maluku Province.
2.2 Project Component B: Implementation Support
Component B valued at US$31.00 million net of tax (6.9% over the PAD estimate) covered consulting
services and a small amount of equipment to support project implementation. Also, it included
provision of funds for incremental operating costs for the Project Management Unit (PMU), and for
the conduct of technical audits by the Inspectorate General of MPW. All sub-components were


                                                 38
implemented except the TA for Management Support for Decentralized Institutions (MSDI) which
was cancelled by the Ministry of Home Affairs due to long delays.
2.3 Project Component C: Road Sector Capacity Building
Component C valued at US$2.62 million net of tax (70% less than the PAD estimate) included five
types of technical assistance and a training component with a number of sub-components. Two TA
were implemented: (i) preparation of standard procedures for road development in environmentally
sensitive areas; and (ii) identification of an initial vision of road network development needs in
Kalimantan. Three TA were cancelled: (i) supporting the development and implementation of
planning procedures used by Kabupaten staff; (ii) continuation of support under EIRTP-1 for a
demonstration provincial road fund; and (iii) expansion of the traffic and road asset road monitoring
system (TRAMS) to Provincial and Kabupaten roads. Master’s Degree training, was divided into two
parts, both implemented: (1) In-country and (2) Overseas-in-part. Four training sub-components were
cancelled.
3. Assessment of Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Three Project Development Objectives (PDO) were identified in the PAD. Achievement of the PDO
was to be assessed by three sets of key performance indicators, as follows:
   •    Key performance indicators for the objective “improved condition of the strategic road
        network? included reduced vehicle operating costs and travel times on project roads; the three
        indicators achieved their original targets;
   •    Key performance indicators for the objective “decentralization of planning and management
        responsibilities for civil works on Provincial and Kabupaten roads? consisted of the number of
        provinces and districts which adopted new planning, technical, and safeguard procedures; the
        three indicators failed to achieve their targets;
   •    Key performance indicators for the objective “increased efficiency, quality and transparency of
        civil works procurement and implementation? comprised: number of contracts awarded in
        accordance with the project anti-corruption plan (achieved); timeliness of tendering (not
        achieved) and number of technical audits (achieved).
4. Summary of Outputs by Project Components
All Key Performance Indicators of Output failed to meet the original targets, but in terms of targets
revised in June 2009, one indicators achieved the revised targets [4.c], and three were below target:
   •    4.a: Cumulative kilometers of road betterment (certified completed) achieved 50% of the
        original target compared with revised target 57%.
   •    4.b: Cumulative kilometers of road rehabilitation (certified completed) achieved 21% of the
        compared with revised target 37%.
   •    4.c: Cumulative meters of bridge replacement: (certified completed) achieved 61% compared
        with revised target 61%.
   •    4.d: Number of agreed Technical Assistance activities completed: achieved 2 TA (50%)
        compared with revised target 4 TA.
5. Ratings Summary
       Performance Rating by PCR
       Outcome:                                   Satisfactory
       Risk to Development Outcome:               Significant
       Bank Performance:                          Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance:                      Satisfactory




                                                  39
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
6.1 Context at Appraisal
The relevant Country Assistance Strategy was dated October 29, 2003 (Report No. 27108-IND) and
discussed by the Board on November 25, 2003. At that time:
   i.    Indonesia had regained macroeconomic and political stability after the Asian Financial
         Crisis, but economic growth remained below 4 percent, poverty reduction remained a
         challenge, and governance concerns continued to cloud its achievements.
   ii.   The goal of the World Bank Group in Indonesia was to continue to focus on those areas
         most crucial to poverty reduction by (a) improving the climate for high-quality
         investments; (b) delivering services that serve the poor; and (c) addressing governance issues.
         The Project was expected to contribute significantly to the achievement of these objectives:
         a. Improving the climate for high-quality investment.
         b. Delivering services for the poor.
         c. Addressing governance issues
The Government’s contribution was anticipated to be 32.5% (PAD p.3). The actual contribution was
30.6%.
6.2 Original Project Development Objectives
(a) Improve condition of the strategic road network in order to reduce transport costs and enhance
    regional accessibility;
(b) Support decentralization of planning and management responsibilities for civil works on
    Provincial and Kabupaten roads to their respective governments; and
(c) Increase the efficiency, quality and transparency of civil works procurement and implementation.
6.3 Revised Project Development Objectives
Project development objectives were not revised during the project.
6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
The PAD noted that the target population would be about 20 million road users in Eastern Indonesia.
The identification of the target beneficiaries was not revised during the project.
6.5 Components, original and revised
Original Project components were:
            A: Civil Works for Preservation of Road Network and Transport Facilities
            B: Implementation Support
            C: Road Sector Capacity Building
Project Components were not revised during the project.
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design Stage, and Quality at Entry
Under the Strategic Context, the PAD noted (p. 3) that “the project will continue its attempts to
finance road preservation/improvements on a more commercial and self-sustaining basis through a
fee-for-service approach and increased involvement of road users and other stakeholders.? Under
EIRTP-1, this concept met resistance from GOI regarding earmarking of fuel taxes or other revenues
for road maintenance, as it contradicted GOI’s indirect budgeting principle, and the road fund TA was
cancelled.
Loan shares were related to Fiscal Capacity (FC): high capacity regions were given low loan shares.
One of thirteen Provinces and 9 of 37 Kabupaten withdrew completely or were deleted after no action
was taken on implementation, including 5 of the 7 regions with 30% Loan share, and 5 of the 21



                                                 40
regions with 60% Loan share. Allocating Loan funds according to Fiscal Capacity (FC) had the
unintended consequence of High-FC Regions pulling out of the Project.
7.2 Implementation Stage
The three key performance indicators for PDO (a) (improvement of road network condition), namely
reduction in vehicle operating costs and in travel times, all achieved their targets. Risks identified in
the PAD did not materialise, but a critical assumption should have been: “Specified quality of works
are achieved? which is a Significant Risk.
The three Output performance indicators for lengths of roads and bridges completed fell well short of
the original targets. Length reductions were caused mainly by the doubling of the Construction Cost
Index during the project period, at the same time as grant budgets were fixed in Rupiah terms. In the
three Provinces where data was available, only 16% of the deleted Provincial road package lengths
were subsequently constructed with Provinces’ own funds, while in the 11 Kabupaten where data was
available, 30% of the deleted Kabupaten road package lengths were subsequently constructed with
Kabupatens’ own funds.
Only 2 of the original 7 technical assistance activities were completed. As well as the risk of
commitment identified in the PAD, some TA were cancelled because packages were not consistent
with Government policy (Road Fund and Training), or were not realistic with respect to findings from
previous TA (TRAMS) which should have been determined at negotiations. The Bank invested major
effort into MSDI by training procurement committees and in evaluation of short lists, while PPBP
remained dormant for a few years before unsuccessful efforts were made to revive it.
A condition for Loan Effectiveness was that all Provinces and Kabupaten sign On-Grant Agreements.
The Agreements required prefinancing of the Loan Share by the respective Province or Kabupaten.
The greatest burden fell on those with 90% Loan share, namely the regions with weakest Financial
Capacity. It is not known what other investments were foregone by those regions in order to
prefinance EIRTP-2.
7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilisation
64 packages were subject to technical audit in 2008 and 2009 out of 116 packages implemented, a
higher ratio than the original target ratio. The full findings were released soon after the Loan Closing
Date.
7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The supervising consultants were unable to complete monthly monitoring of environmental aspects,
and the related performance indicator only reached 57% of the target. This was after simplification of
forms mid-way during the project, following a much lower monitoring result in the early years.
However, all safeguards were fulfilled on the 17 packages with specific environmental or social issues.
Safeguards regarding anti-corruption and transparency measures were all fulfilled.
7.5 Sustaining Reforms and Institutional Capacity
Project Provinces and Kabupaten originally committed to “undertaking annual routine maintenance of
their roads financed under the Project, and at least additional 30% of provincial road networks in the
Project Provinces, and at least 30% of priority network roads in the Project Kabupaten, and to allocate
budgets for these purposes for up to five years after completion of the Project?. This commitment
remains unfulfilled.
8. Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Only 1% of the road network in the project area was handled under the project over five years, and
maintenance was left as a commitment from participating regions, so the main Development Objective
(to improve the condition of the road network in Eastern Indonesia) was over-ambitious and not in
line with the project design.



                                                   41
8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDO)
All Provinces in EIR experienced a worsening of National and Provincial road conditions from 2003
to 2010, based on available data. Data on Kabupaten roads is unreliable. The achievement of PDO (a)
was therefore doubtful. Achievement of PDO’s (b) and (c) was satisfactory, as measured by
performance indicators.
8.3 Efficiency
The overall EIRR from post-project economic evaluation is 51.0% with an estimated Net Present
Value at 15% discount rate of Rp. 2,725 billion. This compares with an average EIRR at appraisal of
56%.
8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
         Rating: Satisfactory
The project was carried out diligently, delays being mainly due to retendering of packages due to
stringent enforcement of procurement standards including the anti-corruption provisions. The apparent
lack of achievement of the key project development objective was external to the project, due to
apparent lack of maintenance on the roads not handled under the project. Other project development
objectives were most likely achieved in part, although not readily measurable.
8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not relevant
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Not central to the project
(c) Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
Allocating Loan funds by varying Loan share according to Fiscal Capacity (FC) had the unintended
consequence of High-FC Regions pulling out of the Project.
8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey
Not conducted
9. Rationale for Rating of Risk to Development Outcome
          Rating:    Significant
Development outcome for EIRTP-2 is measured primarily in terms of condition of the road network in
EIR. Shortcomings in project design (not focusing on routine maintenance and drainage of sub-grades
and pavements), and in implementation (lack of implementation of the PPBP sub-component) mean
that there is a significant risk that the condition of the network as a whole will worsen despite the
project’s efforts, and that road conditions will not be monitored due to weak linkages between Central,
Provincial and Kabupaten governments.
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
          Rating:    Inadequate
The project design did not anticipate externalities which would affect the achievement of project
development objectives, and preparation appeared to be based on that of EIRTP-1. Evaluation of risks
to achievement of performance indicators were not all appropriate. Descriptions of works in the PAD
tended to assume a backlog-oriented approach rather than fostering network management. Some TA’s




                                                  42
and project components were included which were not workable (for instance, Road Fund and the
Transport Facilities sub-component).
(b) Bank Performance in Supervision
          Rating:   Satisfactory
Periodic Supervision Missions continually set new deadlines and made particular efforts to improve
procurement quality. Safeguard policy supervision was meticulous. Fiduciary policy supervision was
sensible and responded positively to the major challenge of financing at sub-national level. Quality
issues were not highlighted. No Aide Memoires were issued in 2007, although close supervision was
conducted by the Task Manager, at that time based in Jakarta.
10.2 Borrower
NOTE: “Government? includes sub-national governments as well as national agencies other than the
Ministry of Public Works, which comes under Implementing Agency.
(a) Government Performance:
          Rating:   Inadequate
Annual budget delays occurred at all levels creating many difficulties for works agencies and
contractors. The original on-granting mechanism was onerous, revised regulations supporting the
financing mechanism for grants to regions could not be applied, loan sharing was complicated and
grant ceilings were inflexible. Issues regarding termination of some contracts were not resolved
despite several years of notification.
(b) Implementing Agency Performance:
          Rating:   Satisfactory
DGH performance was Satisfactory: the organisation structure was significantly improved by the end
of the project, aiding implementation. Main shortcoming was failure to implement the PPBP TA.
PMU performance was Satisfactory: pro-active in setting and achieving targets and deadlines,
cooperated with all agencies and the Bank in following up problems, using a few staff to handle all
issues.
11. Lessons Learned
Many lessons were learned throughout the project, arranged by functional area below:
a)     Project Design
     1)   The main Development Objective (to improve the condition of the road network in EIR)
          was over-ambitious given that only 1% of the network was handled under the project.
     2)   Project Components without Loan funding have little chance of being implemented. The
          Transport Facilities sub-component (US$5 million) was assigned a zero Loan share, but
          there was no plan for budgeting, implementation or monitoring.
     3)   End of March should not be selected as a date for termination of payments, as long as
          budgets expire at end of December, and new budgets are delayed in the first few months of
          each year. This particularly applies at sub-national level where budget approval takes
          longer. This mistake was made twice under EIRTP-2 – for the expiry of On-Granting
          Agreements in March 2009, and for the first amended Loan Closing Date in March 2011.
     4)   A grace period for disbursement for completed works after the Loan Closing Date is critical
          in enabling best use of Loan proceeds, for administration of payments. Lack of a legal basis
          for grace period created serious problems in the final month.
     5)   Recommendations from previous TA should not be equated with lessons learned. The PAD
          (p.14) quoted a lesson learned that funding of roads is best improved through cost recovery
          from road users based on road and fuel use, and by managing the funds and road assets on a
          commercial basis. In fact the lesson from EIRTP-1 was that road funds based on



                                                 43
            earmarking of taxes conflicts with Indonesia’s indirect budgeting principle, separating
            revenue and expenditure.
b)      Budgeting
     6)  GOI budget processing does not permit negative balances on Loan categories or sub-
         categories, so a specific no objection had to be provided in an Aide Memoire, to allow
         over-disbursement of categories, within the Loan amount. This should be stated in Loan
         Agreements and related financial regulations.
     7)  Lack of budgets at the start of each year seriously affects Contractors’ cash flow, project
         completion dates and hence economic returns. Budgets should be prepared much earlier
         than was the case during EIRTP-2, particularly in the Regions.
c)        Planning and Programming
     8)     The institutional barriers between national and sub-national level public works and
            planning agencies prevents application of a reliable framework for data collection for
            planning and programming adapted to the local level, as anticipated in the PAD (p.14).
     9)     Provincial and Kabupaten network development remains patchwork due to focus on
            packages of works on damaged segments. Routine maintenance on good and fair segments
            should be defined as first priority, in the sense that no other works should be programmed if
            funds are only sufficient for routine maintenance.
 10)        The project updated the Benefit Lookup Tables for Economic Evaluation of Kabupaten
            Roads in 2006, but did not achieve any further improvement in the application of planning
            procedures for Kabupaten roads, and did not apply the network development components of
            the SK-77 planning procedure. Financing of planning surveys under the Project should have
            been used as an incentive.
 11)        Many kilometer posts are missing or wrongly located. Based on the 2000-2001
            comprehensive ARMS surveys, relocation or restoration of posts should be included in
            every contract package for betterment or rehabilitation works.
d)   Road Design
 12)  Roughness and traffic surveys should be mandatory before design, and not copied from
      IRMS data, as is common.
 13)  Design reports were not available for comparison when design revisions were proposed.
      Employers/DGH should require design reports before tendering begins.
 14)  Shifting from Simplified Design to Detailed Engineering Design (DED) did not result in a
      reduced number of major design revisions. Every design should be checked against survey
      data, including survey dates. If data sources are unclear, sample verification surveys should
      be arranged.
 15)  Short lifetimes of roads are also caused by design and construction flaws in side drain
      heights and shoulder depth, causing waterlogged pavements.
 16)  The most serious design problems occurred in regard to ground conditions (slope stability
      and bridge foundation design). A high quality design service is needed to handle major
      foundation design issues. Such a services does not exist at present.
 17)  Existing structures are sometimes abandoned in place, not removed. Designs should specify
      existing structures for removal under the contract, if required.
e)   Procurement
 18)   No international firms submitted bids for ICB packages. The ICB threshold should be
       raised to at least US$10 million.
 19)   One package failed because of unclear bidding documents. Project officials and involved
       agencies should be more diligent in verification of documents.




                                                   44
f)   Audit Roles
 20)  BPKP’s audit role was both internal auditor for GOI and external auditor for the Bank. As a
      result DGH did not have access to audit findings until provided by the Bank, although the
      Bank expected DGH to assist in resolving findings.
g)   Construction Management
 21)  Several site engineeers underperformed and were not replaced. Team Leaders of RDSC
      teams should have been given the authority to replace site engineers.
 22)  Technical justifications often ignore essential details, such as justification of unit rates and
      calculation of time schedules where significant changes in volumes occur. The guide to
      preparing technical justifications should be improved.
 23)  The S-curve in Attachment 8 of Bid Forms cannot be used for construction management.
      This should be clarified by adding a footnote “This schedule is for use in Bid Evaluation. A
      more detailed schedule shall be provided by the winning bidder after appointment, to be
      discussed and agreed at pre-construction stage.?
 24)  The Pre-Construction Meeting (PCM) is an opportunity for contractor education to ensure
      the expected processes, outputs, consequences and commitments are understood. The
      bidding documents should define the PCM to be a planning process culminating in a formal
      agreement, not simply as a single meeting.
 25)  Construction contracts only contain a penalty for late completion, and no penalty for late
      start. It is proposed that a set of fines are applied at certain stages during the works if
      progress targets agreed in the PCM are not met.
 26)  The GCC for EIRTP-2 did not encourage the early submission of claims, using the terms
      “at the earliest opportunity? and “as soon as reasonably possible?. The contractual
      obligations of all parties relating to claims should be clearly specified.
 27)  GCC Clause 49.1 makes liquidated damages mandatory, and does not allow for claims in
      process for extensions of time. Liquidated damages are required by financial regulations to
      be paid into State Treasury, so they cannot be repaid to the Contractor without a budget
      revision, contradicting GCC Clause 49.2. Clause 49.1 should be qualified by a Special
      Condition to allow for claims in process.
 28)  It is very difficult to enforce maintenance during the Warranty Period. Payment of part of
      Retention in exchange for a Maintenance Security should be abolished. Release of the
      retention payment should be subject to audit during the warranty period, based on criteria
      for major failure stated in the Contract.
 29)  Contract documents do not contain protections for approved sub-contractors, in particular
      remedies for lack of payment by the main contractor.
 30)  The contract termination process is subject to interventions and avoidances. The State Debt
      Collector should be involved for resolution of outstanding payments.
 31)  Insurance against loss or damage of the works as required by GCC 13.1 is generally not
      purchased by contractors, and ignored by project officials. In order to protect Employers,
      the insurance provisions should become a focus at PCM, and during monitoring of project
      implementation.
 32)  71% packages (61% of 116) were affected by extensions of time, with multiple causes –
      payment delays, delays due to design revisions, and external events (floods, riots etc). Other
      lessons in this report address some of these issues.
h)      Lesson from EIB-106 (40% technical progress, 100% financial progress)
     33) Even after Central government took over the channeling of the Loan share of project
         financing, it was found that it does not have effective means of ensuring rectification or
         termination of contracts procured under sub-national budgets. If autonomous regional
         governments do not take remedial action within 3 months of written notice on cases where
         technical audits show deviations from standard procedures, the relevant central agency
         should have the right to take over the specific authority required to resolve the problem.



                                                45
i)      Anti-Corruption Action Plan
     34) NGO’s as Third Party Monitors have provided good input although limited to 3 visits.
         Flexible contract arrangements for monitors were developed to cover some of the cost of
         NGO’s overheads, not just the monitor’s time.
     35) The Community Representative Observers did not detect any collusion, but their presence
         did ensure transparency in bid openings.
     36) The information media (touch screen computers) in 13 Provinces exposed some discomfort
         among officials with “releasing? information that may attract public criticism. Persistence
         will be needed to make sure the media continue to be used.
     37) Evaluation of the Bid Documents and Bid Evaluation by experienced engineers tested for
         the presence of fraud and collusion, although not as part of the ACAP. This evaluation
         should be continued as part of the procurement process.
     38) Several packages failed because of unclear tender information. Pre-bid meetings should be
         conducted in order to clarify the tendered works transparently.
j)   Environmental and Social Aspects
 39)  The screening procedures in the EMP were effective, but for bridge sub-projects need to be
      followed up with site survey of whether land acquisition is required.
 40)  The Standard Environmental Clauses were often neglected by Contractors, Supervisors and
      PIU. The PCM needs to clarify requirements in the Standard Specifications and penalties
      should be applied if the parties breach the contract, including postponed payments.
 41)  The supervising consultants were unable to fulfill simplified monitoring of environmental
      aspects, and the related performance indicator only reached 57% of the target. The result
      was that unwanted impacts were not detected. Additional expertise should be made
      available and responsible for such monitoring.
 42)  Landslips due to heavy rainfall runoff have become common along the National roads in
      West Sulawesi, threatening road closures, notably in the areas where forests have been
      replaced with oil palm. Investigation should be made into protection by enhanced drainage
      between oil palm and roads in hilly terrain.
k)   Project Financing
 43)   Pre-financing of 100% of the cost of works by Regional Government most affected those
       regions with 90% sharing, namely those with the weakest Financial Capacity, and may have
       caused postponement of other important investments.
 44)   The mix of Loan sharing (30%, 60%, 70% of gross amount, 90% of net amount) did not
       lead to desired participation: 5 of the 7 regions with 30% loan share withdrew from EIRTP-
       2 due to lack of interest and 5 of the 21 regions with 60% loan share also withdrew. A
       single percentage for all regions should have been selected, and funds allocated by amounts,
       not by Loan share.
 45)   The key payment document (SP2D) does not always mention the most important
       supporting information, namely physical progress of the works. This data should be
       required by Ministry of Finance for payments on civil works contracts, and should have
       been used to verify payments before debit to the Special Account.
l)  Technical Assistance (TA) and Implementation Support
46)  The original objectives of 4 of the 5 cancelled TA were not translated into other means of
     achievement, despite some efforts by the Borrower and the Bank which came too late in the
     project. Decisions on implementation of TA should be accelerated.
47)  Procurement of 3 RDSC was delayed about 1 year in contract negotiations, and later
     suffered from inadequate staffing due to inflation during that year, despite price adjustment.
     Price adjustment should be indexed to the proposal date (as for civil works), not to the
     contract date.
48)  Combining design and supervision in a single team enabled good flexibility, but could not
     handle the many design revisions that arose late in construction, and new designs which


                                                46
         were not caused by faults in the original design. Survey and design revision during
         construction stage should have its own source of funding.
 49)     The laboratory equipment procured under EIRTP-2 was most useful for technical checks by
         RDSC, if there were doubts over the contractors’ testing. However, many contractors did
         not have any equipment (they only had funds for testing), so the evaluation of monthly
         certificate claims was hindered.
 50)     Many RDSC teams did not have access to any laboratory equipment, which seriously
         degraded their authority in administering the specifications. “Field sets? should have been
         allocated directly to the RDSC. Transport of lab equipment to remote islands and
         consumables should be made a provisional sum in RDSC contracts.
 51)     Terminating the Team Leaders of the three RDSC contracts before completion of works led
         to disorganized and incomplete final reporting.
m)   Training
 52)  Of the 40 students who completed Masters degrees In-Country, and 9 of the 26 students at
      AIT, only 3 chose a thesis topic related to road maintenance, and none chose a topic on
      geotechnical engineering. DGH should encourage academic programs to fulfill its technical
      needs; universities should encourage research in line with national priorities.
 53)  Lack of “Class A? accredited technical faculties in Eastern Indonesia, shortage of staff in
      the Region and high travel costs for testing and enrolment not supported by the Project, led
      to failure to achieve the target enrolment from EIR. Only 10 out of 40 In-Country Masters
      graduates were from Eastern Indonesia, down from 16 of 46 accepted candidates.
 54)  Workshops in Procurement, the Project Management Manual, the Financial Management
      Report, Environmental and Social Management and Quality Assurance were only carried
      out once. Annual workshops should have been arranged, requiring resources for updating of
      materials and for training itself.
n)   Project Management Manual
 55)   The Manual provided effective guidance for related institutions (PIU, PMU and DGH). It
       was updated once during the Project, and needed further revision and clarification. It should
       be updated annually, before training in the related topics.
 56)   Provisions for amendment of contracts, particularly GCC Clause 38 regarding adjustment
       of unit rates, were unclear in the GCC and the PMM, so project officials applied Ministry
       of Public Works regulations of 2004. The PMM should include relevant material from
       regulations, with the proviso that the PMM does not take precedence over regulations.
 57)   Records management is weak at all levels of Government. This shows up most dramatically
       when staff are replaced. Long term storage space for archiving documents is critically
       needed, in addition to computerised document archives.
 58)   Poor records of meetings and of oral instructions and agreements is a widespread weakness
       in all agencies. Daily records should be mandatory for all managers, to record delegations,
       understandings and lessons learned.
o)   Level of Service of the World Bank
 59)  World Bank focused on detailed compliance with procedures, especially for procurement,
      contract amendment and environmental and social considerations, and was not so focused
      on shortcomings which affected achievement of Project objectives, such as works quality
      and institutional issues.
 60)  The TOR for financial audit was supposed to be published in the PMM (refer PAD p.11)
      but was not made available by the Bank.
 61)  The six months provided by the Bank between the original expected project completion
      date and the original Loan Closing Date should have been maintained in the extensions of
      the Loan Closing Date.




                                               47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(Not Applicable)




                                      48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. The World Bank, Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project: Project
      Appraisal Document (No. 28071-IND), May 18, 2004
   2. The World Bank, Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project: Loan
      Agreement (No. 4744-IND) between Republic of Indonesia and the International
      Bank for Reconstruction and Development, July 23, 2004
   3. Directorate General of Highways, Ministry of Public Works, Second Eastern
      Indonesia Region Transport Project: Project Implementation Plan, May 2004
   4. The World Bank, Back to office reports and Aide-memoires of the Second Eastern
      Indonesia Region Transport Project from 2008 to 2011
   5. The World Bank, Project Status Report and Implementation Status and Results
      Reports for the Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project from 2008 to
      2011
   6. The World Bank, Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project, Project
      Paper for Second Order Restructuring, June 18, 2009
   7. The World Bank, Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project,
      Amendment Letter (JA-168/EIRTP/VI/09), June 30, 2009




                                        49
                                                                                                                                                                               120°
                                                                      CAMBODIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
                        MYANMAR                                                                                                                                                                                                       PA C I F I C
                                                                                              VIETNAM                                                                                        PHILIPPINES                                                               SECOND EASTERN INDONESIA
                 Andaman                                                                                                                                                                                                              OCEAN                            REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT
                   Sea                                   Gulf of
                                                        Thailand                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sulu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT PROVINCES
                             THAILAND                                                                                                                                                Sea                                                                                                        11

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1   D.I. ACEH                11    JAWA BARAT                 21   KALIMANTAN SELATAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2   SUMATERA UTARA           12    JAWA TENGAH                22   KALIMANTAN TIMUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3   RIAU                     13    D.I. YOGYAKARTA            23   SULAWESI UTARA
            Banda Aceh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4   SUMATERA BARAT           14    JAWA TIMUR                 24   GORONTALO
                                                                                         L        A          Y                    BRUNEI                                                                                                                                5   JAMBI                    15    BALI                       25   SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                                            A                                        S                                                                                                                                                  6   BENGKULU                 16    NUSA TENGGARA BARAT        26   SULAWESI SELATAN
                             1                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                 7   SUMATERA SELATAN         17    NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR        27   SULAWESI TENGGARA
                                          Medan                                         Natuna                              I                                                                Celebes                                       Talaud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Is.                        8   LAMPUNG                  18    TIMOR                      28   MALUKU UTARA
                                                                                         Besar
                                                                                                                                   A                                 Tarakan                  Sea                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BANGKA-BELITUNG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BANTEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KALIMANTAN BARAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KALIMANTAN TENGAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MALUKU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WEST IRIAN JAYA
                             Pematangsiantar                                        Anambas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31   PAPUA
                  Simeulue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Morotai
                                               2                                                                                                                                                          Manado                                                                                 135°
                                                                           SINGAPORE                                                                   22
                             Nias
                                                          Pekanbaru
                                                                   Batam       Tanjungpinang                                                                                                        24        23                  Ternate            Halmahera
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gorontalo
            0°                                                3                                  Pontianak                                                                                                                        For detail, see                       Waigeo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0°
                                                                                Lingga                                      K A L I M A N TA N                   Samarinda                   For detail, see                       IBRD 32959
                                             Padang                                                 For detail, see
                                                                                                                    19                                                                25                                                                                                     Manokwari        Biak
                                                                                                                                                  Balikpapan
                                                                                                                                                                        Palu                  IBRD 32965                              28                                      Sorong
                                          Siberut        4                                            IBRD 32956
                                                                      Jambi                                                            20                                                                     Peleng                                Obi                                               Yapen
                                      M




                                                                  5                      Bangka                                                                                SULAWESI                                                                                                 30
                                        en




                                                                                          Pangkalpinang                  Palangkaraya                                                                                  Sula Is.                                      Misool                                 For detail, see
                                          ta




                                                             S U M AT R A                    9                                                                   For detail, see                                                                                                                             IBRD 32962       Jayapura
                                           w




                                                                                                                         For detail, see                                                                                                              Ceram
                                               ai




                                                                                Palembang             Belitung                                     21             IBRD 32963
                                                               6                                                          IBRD 32957                                                                                                                        Amahai          Fakfak
                  INDIAN
                                                Is




                                                                           7                                                  Banjarmasin          For detail, see              26           27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Buru
                                                    .




                                                        Bengkulu                                                                                                                                        Kendari
                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 32958 Parepare                                                                             Ambon                                            Timika             31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NEW GUINEA
                                                                                 8 Bandar                                                                                                     For detail, see
                  OCEAN                                                           Lampung                                                                         Makassar                     IBRD 32964
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Muna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Banda 29                                Kai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Is.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAPUA
                                                        Enggano                                                                                                                                          Baubau
                                                                                              JAKARTA                                                                                                                                           Sea For detail, see
                                                                               Serang
                                                                                   Bogor 11             Cirebon     Semarang
                                                                                                                                    I N
                                                                                                                                  Madura
                                                                                                                                                             D          O            N              E          S             I             A                  IBRD 32960
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Is.
                                                                                  10 Bandung                   12 J A W A                                                                    Java Sea                              Wetar
                                                                                                             Surakarta             Surabaya                                                                                                                 Babar              Tanimbar
                                                                                                   Cilacap                                      15
                                                                                                      Yogyakarta         Malang   14                             Sumbawa                                           Alor                         Moa                               Is.
                                                                                                                                               Bali    Lombok                              Flores
                                                                                                                  13                                                       Raba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Merauke
                                                                                                                                       Denpasar                                                                                Dili
                                                                                                                                                       Mataram                                Ende
                                                                                                                                                                16       Waingapu
                                                                                                                                                                                     17                                           TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         18
                                                                                                                                                      For detail, see
                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 32961
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sumba                             Timor                                                         Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                                         For detail, see                       Kupang
                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 32966
                                          INDONESIA                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                        0         200          400         600
                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                               Gulf of
                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                      KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Carpentaria




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 32955
            15°
                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
JUNE 2004




                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                          A U S T R A L I A
                                                                           105°           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                        120°
