Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12250-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
NATURAI. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
DECEMBER 2, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12250 CO
Type: SAR
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EALET
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Exchange Rate (12/1/1993) US$1.00 = Col$ 907.60
WUEIGH1TS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF CQLOMBIA
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY QF ABBREVIATIONS
ACOFORE             Asociacidn Colombiana de Reforestadores (Afforeters' Association)
CAR                 Corporaci6n Regional Aut6noma (Regional Autonomous Corporation)
CODECHOCO           National Corporation for the Development of Choco
CONIF               Corporaci6a Nacional de Investigacida y Fomento Forestal (National Forestry Research and
Development Corporation)
CONPES              Consejo Nacional de Polftica Economica y Social (National Council for Economic and Social
Policy)
CORNARE             Regional Corporation for Rionegro-Nare
CORPES              Consejo Regiondl de Planificaci6n Econ6mica y Social (Regional Commission for Economic
and Social Policy
CORPONARINO         Regional Corporation for the Development of Nariso
CORPOURABA          Regional Corporation for the Development of Urab6
CVC                 Regional Corporation for the Development of Valle del Cauca
DNP                 Departamento Nacional de Planeacidn (Department for National Planning)
DRI                 Desarrollo Rural Integrado (Integrated Rural Development Program)
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FEDECAFE            Federaci6n Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia (National Coffee Growers Association)
FONADE              Fondo Financiero de Proyectos de Desarrollo (Fund for Financing Development Projects)
GEF                 Global Environmental Facility
GIS                 Geographic Information System
GPS                 Global Positioning System
WADB                Inter-American Development Bank
ICAN                Instituto Colombiano de Antropologfa (Colombian Inst. of Anthropology)
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICFES               Instituto Colombiano Para el Fomento de la Educaci6n Supenor (Colombian Institute for
Higher Education)
IGAC                Instituto Geogrdfico Agustin Codazzi (Geographic Institute)
INCORA              Instituto Colombiano de Refonma Agraria (Colombian Agrarian Reform Institute)
INDERENA            Instituto Nacional de los Recursos Naturales Renovables y del Ambiente
(National Renewable Natural Resources Institute)
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MoE                 Ministerio del Ambiente (Ministry of the Environment)
NCO                 Non-Governmaental Organization
NRMP                Natural Resource Management Program
PAFC                Plan de Acci.Sn Forestal de Colombia (Tropical Forestry Action Plan for Colombia)
PRIDECU             Programa Integral de Recuperaci6n de Cuencas (Integrated Program for
Watershed Rehabilitation)
SAF                 Secretarfa de Asuntos Financieros (Secretariat for Financial Matters in UC)
SAI                 Secretarta de Asuntos Institcionales (Secretariat for Institutional Matters in UC)
SAT                 Secretarfa de Asuntos Tecnicos (Secretariat for Technical Matters in UC)
SEAG                Secretarfa de Agricultura, Depto. de Antioquia (Agric. Secretariat, Antioquia)
SecTec              Secretarfa T6cnica (PAFC) (Technical Secretariat of the Tropical Forestry Action Plan for
Colombia)
SENA                Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Training Service)
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
UC                  Unidad Coordinadora (Coordinating Unit)
UNDP                United Nations Development Program



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
CONTES
LO         AND PRojEcr sumRY    ............         .............. ...
1. BACKGROUND AND SECTORAL CONTEXT ............ 1
TheCountry andPopadon ...................I
heEEconomy ......      ...  .......................  1
The NataW  Resour    Sector .      ..................  2
TheCho6 Rqon .................. 5
2. FORESTRY AND ENVIRONM[ENTAL
INSTITuTIONSAND POLICIES  .....                 ............  6
Legaland hLsttutoral Context ......................6 
Fortes Poles. ...............................  9
Land Tenure in the Choc6 Region .................... 10
Existing Nalional Government Progams .....         ........... 11
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement ....        ........... 12
Rationale for Bankl nvolvement ..................... 12
3. THE PROJECr ..........               ...................... 14
Objectives and BriefDescription ..................         ... 14
DetailedFeatures .       . ............................ 15
A. National Forest Policy, and Stategy
Development for the Choc6 Region ....      ...... 15
B. Watershed Protection and Rehabilion  .       ........ 21
C. Management of National Parks and Buffer Zones  ... 22
D. Forestry/Environmental Education, Training,
Research, Project Management, and
Monitoring/Evaluation            .       .     23
costs ..26
Financing  .. .........           ..................... 27
Procurement ................................ 27
Disbursements ................................ 30
Accounts and Audits     ............................ 31
4. IMPLEMENTATION ............................. 32
Organizaton and Manaement ...................... 32
Community Participaton and Indigenous People ....       ....... 34
Monitoring and Reporting .......................... 36
Program Evluadtions ........          .................... 36
his repon is based on the resWlts of a pro-appraisal in Jan./Feb. 1993, a workshop
with Bank and Colombian Govement offlcials in April 1993, and the appraisa in
Juneauly 1993. Main contributors to project design include: Messrs. E. Goetz
(task manager), W.B. Johnson (fincial analyst), and R.M. Huber and P. Hazelton
(environmentlists); and Messrs. D. Newman and T. Balaguer (consultant). Peer
reviewers were Messrs. L. Consino (forest economist) and S. Davis
(anthropologist). Ihe Department Diector and Sector Division Chief were Messrs.
Y. Abe and N. Kraffl, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii
5. BENEFnIS, BACr AND RISKS  ..........                ........ . 37
Baofts ............. ...... # ............. . .. *.. 37
L iviirom tal Impact .............. .  .         .  .37
Risb  .............. .        . .    .  . .  .  . . .    . 38
6. AREE S  EC               DAND RECODDDENATON  ......................... 39
ANNFES
Annel:    CostandFinancingTables ............. ....... 41
Annex 2:    Summary Tems of Refence for major Consultant
Sevices ................................* 46
Annex 3:    Key Indicators ..............................  . S
Ann4: 4         eientt   ...n . . . .........  .. 52
Tble 1:           Program          ntd
Implemntation Arrangements
Table 2:          Bank Suprvion Plan
Table 3 (Chart):    Program Managmenrgaizton
within DNP
Table 4 (Chart):    SmpleentonScedue
Amnn  5:    Selected Dcuments and Data Available m the Project Fie  61
IBRD Map #248: Major Environmenta Featus
IBRD Map 2889  Pacific Coast and WenHghlnds



COLOMBIA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)
LOAN AND PROJE4T SUMMRY
Borrower.           Republic of Colombia
fMaa_t              Coordint  Unit In the National Plaing Department (DNP)1
Main Impl           Regional autonomous corporations; National Renewable Resources
Agendes:           Institute kfNDERENA); Institute for Higher Education (1CFES); National
Training Service (SENA); Agrarian Reform Instiute (NCORA).
Loan Amount         US$39.0 million; to be repaid in 20 years on an annuty basis,
and Terms:         including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Objecties and       The kev objective of the proposed NRMP would be to develop, through the
Brief Description:   carryiig out of specific actions, policies and mechanisms that would conrbute
to arrest the ongoing degradation of natual renewable resources over the
longer term. It would be the first phase of a longer-tem program and would
be expected to generate the policy, institutional and technical base for fimre
forest management and land titling investments in the Choco Region.
Investments under the NRMP first phase would be confined to Western
Colombia. NRMP would consist of: (i) the development of a policy,
information and instiuonal base for forest management, with a particular
focus on the Choco Region; (ii) the rehabilitation and protection of selected
water catchment areas in the highlands; (iii) the improved mnagement of
national parks; and (iv) the strengthening of environmental/forestry education,
training and research, and of Program management.
3enef:             The main benefits of NRMP are emvironmental in nature and cannot be
quantified. These regional and natloral benefits (economic externalities)
include the enhanced volume, quality and stabDity of water supplih's for
domestic use, irrigation, and hydro-power generation, reduced soil erosion,
and a reduction of eaviromnental damages achieved through improved
monitoring and control. Employment opportunities would increase in the
Highlands, in particular, through services associated with reforestation and
watershed maintenance. Global extrnalities include the conservation of
biodiversity through the protection of humid tropical forest areas, carbon
sequestration and other non-use values.
bjsks:              The main risks of NRMP are associated with: Oi the fluid institutional
situation in Colombia (establishment of a new Ministry of the Environmen,
restructuring of regional corporations); (ii) the evolving legal framework
(e.g., a new envirommental system, land titling of black communities); CiUi) the
process of decenalization of government responsibilities; and (iv) the
possible continuation of the existing, unsatisfactory system of forest
concessions and other forest policies; (v) the need for cooperation by the
affected populations; and (vi) the unpredictable security situation in Colombia.
1.    Tbo Coordinating Unit wil be twsferrd to the MiWsisy of the Environment (MoE)
onoe the new MoE is established and operational.



- iv -
While the NRMP design includes as much safeguards as possible, this has also
resulted in a complex operation that involves many different institutions and
numerous policy elements. In view of the uncertainties listed, the scope of
infrastructure investments and of recurrent cost financing requirements (except
for the national parks component) have been kept low. Nevertheless, there Is
the risk that some of the implementing agencies may not perform in as timely
a manner and as eficiently as expected at appraisal. The risks are pary
offset by the strong commitment of the Govermment to environmental
protection, the anlysis and gradual build-up of institttional capacity in the
areas to be developed, the inclusion of specific indigenous peoples and
community development actions, and the deferral of major investments in
sensitive forest areas until after the policy, legal and institutonal framework
have been clarified during the two-year policy . nd strategy development phase
of the NRMP. Another manner in which the operation is designed to manage
the risks is that the NRMP will be implemented as a program with a large
degree of built-in flexibility for adjusting focus, scope and location of the
investments and activities in response to changing conditions and
opportnities.
PNm~             F"ladng
Total      Agencies &      IBRD        Cental
Cost      Communities      Loan      Govenmnt
Policy/Stegy Development                  10.8             1.0         9.8
Watershed RchabiLiaton                   25.7             12.9        12.9
National Parks I/                         8.7                                        8.7
Education, Tnuoing, Research and Program  20.1             3.7        16.3
IM angement__                              _  _   _  _  _   _  __                  _  _  _
Total                                    65.3  1          17.6        39.0           8.7
Al Part of the Central Govemnment commitment to finanec the national pars component may at a later stage be
replaced by grant financing from the Govenment of The Netherlands.
ESTIMATED LOAN DISBURSEMENIS
(IMD Paw DW. Pd  A 1993) a CdWM - AOWs)
IBRD Pisoal Year                 1994   1995S  1996 | 1997 |1998   1999   2000   2001
-    I           -      i      .      =i-iMIMMiiW
Profile: % of Total as per Profile  6%   18%    34%   50%    66%    82%    94%    100%
USS million per year              2.3    4.7    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    4.7    2.3
US$ million cumulative            2.3    7.0   13.3   19.5 I 25.7   32.0[ 36.7   39.0
Economic Rate of Return:   Not Applicable.
Poverty Category:             Program of Targeted Interventions.



COLOMBA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)
1. BACKGROUND AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
The Country and Popubltion
1.1   Colombia's populadon, estimated at 32.3 million in mid-1990,
occupies an area of just over a million square kilometers. Two-thirds of the
populton now lives in urban areas. Naural resources are abundant. These
include agricultural land, water for irrigation, energy resources (oil, natural
gas, and coal), and mineral resources such as nickel, gold, and emetalds.
Colombia's location gives it a significant advantage because it is close to
North America with coasts on both fte Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.
Mountainous terrain, however, makes internal ran on costly and slows
physical and social integtion. Rich physical resources, a literate and
dependable work force, a robust private sector, competent macroeconomic
management, and relative political stability are major factors explaining
Colombia's good record of economic development and social improvements
over the last 30 years.
The Economy
1.2   Since the end of the decade of the 1980s, Colombia's economy has
expeienced an impressive tansfornation. The government has abandoned
its inward-oriented development model of the past, redefining the role of the
state in the economy. To reverse the deterioration of factor producdtvity
growth, an Economic Modenization Program (EMP) was launched in 1990.
Its centerpiece was trade reforms aimed at increasing the competitiveness of
the trdeable goods sector. Complementary financial sector reforms and
industrial rest ring policies were designed to enhance factor mobility,
improve efficiency in the use of resources, and ensure an adequate supply
response of the productive sectors. Refonns in the public sector were aimed
at improving the effilciency and targeting of public expenditures. Although
initially scheduled to be implemented during the 1990-94 period, the tade
liberaliation program was substantially accelerated by the Gavina
Administration.
1.3         Solid economic growth of about 4.5% per year, for the past
four decades, combined with a drop in the population growth rate to 2.0%
per year, have facilitted substantial improvements in social conditions.
However, povierty remains a critical problem. Sharp regional disparities in
the quality of life contribute to social disintegration in large areas of the
country.
1.4        The overa thrust of the govemment's development program is
to develop the social, physical and regulatory infastucure needed to
alleviate poverty, facilitate private-wsector led growth, and begin to address
environmental degradation. The gavernment realizes that future economic
growth prospects are jeopardized by a complex set of environmental -ad



natural resource manement problems. The expansion of the agicultural
frontier has caused forest and habitat destruction, and disruption of
indigenous communities. It also ties up resources in low- or negative-value
added agriculue commodities, resulting in declining agricultural
producdvity, loss of biodiversity, and the release of carbon into the
atmosphere contributing to global warming.
1.5          Continued restrant in fisl policy, aided by a tax reform now
under discussion, would give the government the resources necessary for its
ambitious investment program in the infrastructure and social sectors. By
1994-95, the newly discvered Cusiana oil field will begin to produce large
amounts of oil and gas, ensuring ample exports and domestic energy supplies
for years to come. Thus, over the medium tenn, the government should be
able to achieve its goal of 5%-plus growth and under 20% infon by
maintaining its prudent mac.oeconouic policies and the pace of structural
reforms.
The Natural Resources Sector
1.6          Natural Forests. From the most recent forest area data
(IGAC, 1987), it is estimated that natural forests over 54.5 million ha, or
48% of Colombia's total land area. Of this forest area, approximately 82%
remains in legally constituted forest reserves. Although regulatory control is
weak and land clearing for colonization is frequent, some 60% of this forest
area is thought to be still undisturbed by virtue of its in ibilit
(primarily in the Amazonia region). Accessible forest totals about 6 million
ha, most of which is located in the Andean Highlands and along the Pacific
Coast. Tlble 1 below shows the location, areas, and principal forest types
by region.
Table 1: Forest Regions In Colombia
Reel.o      Total Laod     Area of          X          Principal Forst TO
AreM         Fet          Forsted
('005 ha)     ('000 ha)
Amazonia         35,054         32,349         92      Dene mixed tr4pical high
forest (THF)
Orinoco          26,000         7.151          28      THF and savaMh.
Pacific          9q120          6,817          75       Coastal THF, mgro.
Caribbean        12,900           530           4      Dry decihuous forest.
Andean           31,060         7,727          25      Nontan decifous and
Highlands                                              coniferous
Other-              40
Cities, etc.
Total       114,174         S41S74         48



-3-
1.7         Forest Econoimy. The ftesry subsector accounts for only
2% of the total GDP (or 12% of the agricultumal GDP). However, these
figures ignore the contribution of fuelwood and non-timber products to the
economy, as well as environmentl benefits. In spite of its vast panse of
potentally productive forests, Colombia remains a net importer of forest
products, primarily long fiber pulp and waste paper for the paper indust.ry
and newsprint. The majority of Colombia's total forest production (2.6 to
2.8 million m3 out of a total production of about 4 million nm per year)
comes from the natural forests of the Pacific Coast. Because of the diverse
nature of these forests, relatively little direct management occurs. Most of
the wood removed from the area is harvesed under a government
management permit system using diameter-limit, selective harvesting of only
a few species.
1.8         Although Colombia's commercial forest product sector depends
heavily on nattve forests, here has been some use of planted forests for
production i'puts. Industri forest plantations (around 175,000 ha of pine,
cypresses, and eucalyptus species) are found mostly in the highland and
valley areas on land above 1,800 meters above sea level, i.e., not in the
tropical rainforet areas. Most of these plantations were established in the
1980s, primarily as a result of various forestry incentive programs.
1.9         Deforestation and Forest Degradation. Indiscriminate
deforestation is considered one of Colombia's principal environmental
problems. The estimates of annual deforestation vary gready, ranging from
300,000 ha estimated by INDERENA in 1984, to 600,000 ha by Colombia's
Tropical Forestry Action Plan in 1989, to 820,000 ha by the World
Resources Institute in 1992. Much of the variation in these estimates comes
from measurement difficulties and differences in definitions of deforestation.
Settlement, slash-and-burn agriculture, and land clearing for cattle pasture are
considered the pnncipal causes for forest land conversion. Fu-lwood
gathenng and commercial logging in many areas lead to fore degradation,
rather than land use conversion. Some 40-50% of the popuation relies on
fuelwood for cooking and heating. Approximately 80% of all fuelwood
removals are used in households, while the rest is utilized by the sugar, brick
making, and baking industries.
1.10        The causes and impacts of deforestation and forest degradation
vary by region. In the western Andean highlands, deforetation is brought
about mainly by shifting cultivation by firmers, particularly in the
Departments of Nario, Cauca, and Antioquia. In the southern and eastern
foothills (the Departments of Caquetd, Putumayo and Meta), colonists have
been drawn to the area by land tenure incentives offered by government
settlement projects (now discontinued). Much of this settled land has been
converted to pasture and little of the removed timber was marked because
of poor market access. Along the Pacific Coast, relatively little land use
change has occurred because of the poor soils, very heavy rainfll and poor
infrastucture. However, serious instances of forest and environmental
degradation have occurred as a result of gold mining, logging, shrimp



- 4 -
frming, and road construcdon. Setement pressure in this area is geneally
low although substantial areas in the northern part of the region have been
cleared for banana production (para. 1.14).
1.11        Economic uses of the natural forest resource itself are a causal
factor only in the Pacific Coast region. While actual defoestion does
occur at much higher rates in other parts of the country, changing frest
management techniques there would not help much without also changing
agricultural and land use policies that foster land conversion. Only in the
commercially exploited Paciflic coast fors is improved forest management
seen as an important tool which can contain destructive forestry activities.
1.12        Bliodiesty and  rtected  Areas. The ecology of Colombia
is extremely rich relative to its size. Ten percent of the world's fauna and
flora are repesented within its borders and the country is listed as one of the
worldwide priority area 'hotspots" for conservation (World Development
Report 1992). For example, Colombia has 50,000 Vpecies of phanerogam
plants-compared with Brazil's 55000, a country over seven times its
tritorial size. Of all bird species, 19.4% occur in Colombia (the entire
continent of Africa has only 15%), and it is the richest country in species of
orchids and palms, the second richest in amphibians, and the third richest in
reptiles. The forest environment is an intgral part of this biodiversity, with
70% of all fauna and fora occurring in forest areas. Of special interest are
the tropical moist forests of the Pacific Coast which are regarded by some
ecologists as the most biologically diverse in the world. Colombia has 43
national parks and other protected areas which cover around 8% of the
country, or 9 million ha. They are situated along the Pacific Coast (5), the
Caribbean Coast (10), the Andean Highlands (19), Amazonia (8), and
Orinoco (1). There are proposals to create an additional 107 protectd areas.
In June 1993 the Govemment established an interinstitutional committee,
presided by the Minister of Agriculture and with INDERENA as technical
secreia, to formulate a National Biodiversity Strategy for Colombia.
1.13        Water Catchment Areas. Watershed degradation in the
highlands, the areas with the highest populadon density in Colombia, is
causing shortages and pollution of water supplies, altered stream flows,
infastrucue dge (irrigation canals, roads and reservoirs), and loss of
farm productivity. Shortages of wood for fuel and other local uses have
become prevalent. In addition, land has been abandoned in some areas due
to the seriousness of the erosion. Along the Pacific Coast, the degradation of
the forests is causing the siltation of streams and the marine emvironment. At
the national and even interational level, the loss of forest cover has caused
substantial concern regarding potential changes in the hydrological cycle and
decreased rainfall.



-5-
The Cboc6 Region
1.14        The Biogeographic Choc6 comprises those parts of the
Colombian coast that drain to the Pacific Ocean and, through the Atrato
River, into the Gulf of Urab of the Caribbean Sea (see IBRD Map 24888).
Three quarters of its some 9.1 million ha are tropical rain forests. More
than half of these forests are considered to be commercially exploitable.
About one million ha are gaztted as protected areas (national parks) and
another one million ha are in legally constituted indigenous reserves. The
soils are generally unsuitable for conventional agriculture. Forest use is the
dominant economic activity. There are a few areas with commercial
plantations of oil palm, rubber, cocoa, or banawas, but subsistence farming is
the main agricultural activity. This is pcticed along the river banks by
black and Indian communities who have developed sustainable agriculture
and agroforestry systems suitable to the Region. The Choc6 Region will be a
special focus of the proposed Program due to the importance of its
biodiversity, forest economy, land tenure issues, and the poverty and
diversity of its rwal population, including black communities and indigenous
groups.



-6-
2. FORESTRY AND ENVIRONNTAL
NSTITUTrIONS AND POLICES
Legal and Intitutonal Context
2.1   Constittonal Requirements. Colombia's 1991 Constitution
recognizes that a healthy environment is a fundamental human right and
mandates the State to intervene in environmental management to better the
life of its citizens and protect the natural resources. The Constitution is
oriented towards fomenting sustinable development2. It articulates, inter
alia, the State's responsibility to: plan and intervene in the management and
use of natual resources; prevent, control and repair environmental damage;
protect the diversity and integrity of the environment and conserve areas of
special interest-national park areas, and also that communal land of
indigenous groups, may not be transferred, acquired and embargoed; and
involve communities in decisions that affect their environment.
DecentrAized territorial entities such as municipalities and departments would
regulate land use, dictate norms and defend the enviroinment in their
respective areas. Indigenous cotrmunities would be expected to guard and
preserve their natral resources and use them without negatively affecting
their social and economic integrity. Furthermore, the Constitution includes
two transitiona articles (Nos. 38 and 55) that are of relevance to the
proposed NRMP areas: (i) on land regularization (ordenamiento tenitorIz;
and (ii) on the recognition of collective land rights of the black communities
on the Pacific Coast. Most of the new laws required by the Constitution,
including on the environmental system and land regularization, were still
under preparaon in mid-1993. The Law for collective titling of black
communities (Law No. 70) was approved and promulgated on
August 27, 1993 (see also para. 2.18).
2.2         EXst  Lgal Framework. The National Code of
Renewable Natral Resources and Environmental Protecdon, promulgated in
1974 as Law 2811, contains the principles for environmental management
The Code delares that all renewable natural resources belong to the nation
(patrimonto comnn). Their management is of public interest, and both the
state and individuals must participate in their preservation and use.
However, the Code lacks the coercive instruments necessary for efficient
enforcement and the mechanisms for community participation have not been
developed adequately. Furthermore, numerous laws and decrees have later
been issued that should regulate its implementation, but that occasionaly are
inconsistent and contradictory. However, the most serious constraint, apart
from clear implementation guidelines, has been the weakness of State
institutions to effectively implement and enforce the law (para. 2.5 below).
2.    The coneept of suainable development is based on the definition of the Buntand
Commisson: Sustainable development that satisdes the needs of the prent
generation without comprog the apacty for future geerations to sats thder
needs.



- 7-
2.3         Exsti  Instltutions. As of mid-1993, the responsibility for
the administration of renewable natural resources in Colombia is being shred
between the National Renewable Natural Resource Institute (NDERENA)
and 19 regional autonomous corporations. INDERENA, an institute within
the Ministry of Agriculture, is principally responsible for Colombia's forest
resources, parks, fish and wildlife, and other renewable natural resources.
INDERENA administers about 65% of the national territory, including 2.6
million ha or nearly half of the natural forests in the commercially important
Pacific Coast region, and the vast and largely untapped areas of Amazonas
and Orinoco, the forests of San Lucas on the Caribbean Coast and 9 million
ha of national parks.
2.4         In the remaining 35% of Colombia's territory, however with
65% of the country's population, INDERENA has delegated its resource
management responsibilities to regional autonomous corporations. These
corporations are attached to the Department of National Planing (DNP), but
are administratively autonomous. They obtain their income from land taxes,
natural resource taxes (forest royalties, sale of hydroelectricity), and central
government transfers. The effectiveness of these corporations depends
largely on the amount of revenues they receive and their institutional
capacity.
2.5         There are numerous other agencies twat deal with
environmental management, including the ministries of Health, Mining, and
other agencies under the Ministry of Agriculture, which through their
individual actions cover legal and institutional gaps and compensate for the
low status and opeational weakness of INDERENA. This often creates
conflicts of interpreaion of the laws and responsibilities, coordination
problems, and, in general, leads to inefficient resource use and protection. A
new environmental system is under preparation which attempts to elevate
environmental management within the public administration and create a
streamlined institutional setup.
2.6         The Proposed Environmental Law. A law proposal
establishing a new environmental system has been approved by Colombia's
Senate and is to be presented to the Chamber for approval.3 Under the
planned reorganization, INDERENA would be phased out and INDERENA's
responsibilities for national parks would be subsumed under a new Ministry
of the Environment (MoE). Regional autonomous corporations (CARs)
would be attached to MoE and expand in size and number to manage all of
Colombia's natural forest areas.
3.    Proyeaos de ie nneas 99y 129 de 1992, "por la cual se crea d MiAwlo del
Medio Ambente, se meordena el Secor P4blco encargado de la Geston y
Conservacn del Medio Ambzme y los Recursos Naxuraes Renovabks, se organizm
el Slstna Nadonal Ambienal, SINA y se dictan otras disposidones. a Publied in:
Gazeta del Congreso, No. 317, 13 do septiembre de 1993.



2.7         The new MoE would define the policies and regulations for the
management of the environment and the use of natural resources to ensure
sustainable development. It would coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the environmental policies and functions through a new
"National Environmental System' that would include all public, private or
mixed entities that deal with environment and natural resource use. A
"National Environmental Council" composed of representatives of the public
and private sectors concerned with environmental matters would assist and
advise MoE on the intersectoral coordination of environmental policies. As
an exception to the general role of MoE as a policy setting entity, it will
have a special unit to administer the national parks system, and will also be
responsible for the National Environmental Fund. MoE would, thus, take
over environmental and resource management functions previously exercised
by INDERENA, the ministries of Agriculture, Health, Mining and Energy,
and by DNP. Furthermore, MoE would oversee five scientific institutions
that would deal with: (i) water, climate and soils; (ii) coastal and marine
resources; (iii) fauna, flora and biodiversity; (iv) the Amazonas Region; and
(v) the Choc6 Region. Among those entities, the proposed new "Institute for
Environmental Research on the Pacific Coast 'John von Neumann'" would be
of particular interest to the proposed NRMP as it would focus on the Choc6
Region, one of the major project areas included in the NRMP.
2.8         Under the proposed Law, CARs will no longer depend on
Central Government. They will be decentralized corporate entities for the
implementation of environmental policies and the administration of natural
resources. CARs would be owned by the municipalities, departments, and
other territorial entities in the areas of their jurisdiction. Five of these new
corporations are located in particularly environmentally sensitive areas.
Among them, CODECHOC6 in the deprtment of Choc6 and
CORPOURABA in northern Antioquia, would have additional functions in
technology transfer, scientific research and community participation that are
of national interest.
2.9         Other important factors in environmental manaeement would
be the territorial entitles. Departments and municipalities can implement
programs on their own or in coordination with other entities of the National
Environmental System, in particular with CARs. Indigenous reserves and
traditional black communities would have the same rights and obligations
with regard to environmental management as the municipalities. However,
natural resource use may not affect their cultural social and economic
integrity, and specific consultations with representatives of these communities
are required.
2.10        The National Environmenal Fund, administed initally by
DNP's Coordination Unit (para. 4.4) under the IDB-supported Environmental
Program (para. 2.24 (i)), would provide financial resources to support the
implementation of environmental policies and the management of naural
renewable resources by private sector organizations and public tefritorial
entities. Priority areas for support are: national parks, special proection



- 9 -
zones, watershed protecdon, environment and human health, endangered
species, environmental research, decontamination, and sustainable use of
native flora and fauna.
Forest PoUcies
2.11        The most important edsting laws pertaining to management of
forests are: Law 135 of 1961, Law 23 of 1973, and the Natural Resource
Code (Law 2811 of 1974). These laws provide for: cooperation with the
Colombiani Agrrian Refonn Institute (INCORA) in land use matrs
(conversion of forest to agnculture), the improvement of natual frests, the
establishment of plantations, the provision of credit for plantations, the
management of concessions, watershed protection, the development of the
forest products industry, and the creation of national parks and reserves.
2.12        Harvesting Permits and Concessions. Under the existing
forestry policy, all timber harvesting in the country, whether on public or
private land, is subject to management plans which stipulate species specific
minimum harvest size requirements, total volume cutting limits, and the
harvesting method. Harvesting is allowed on both public and private land
only through government authorized permits or concessions and subject to the
payment of royalties. The main enforcement mechanism is the transport
permit (salvo conducto) that must accompany logs from the forest and on
through the trnsformation process. The basic structure of the Colombian
system of forest permits and concessions conforms with concession systems
found elsewhere in the world. However, implementation suffers from
substantial levels of incomplete information and administrative follow-through
which hamper the effectiveness of the system. Incomplete information
regarding forest inventories and land ownership frustrate the effective zoning
of desired forest management activities, and inadequate adminisave
capability limits the enforcement of aeistng regulations.
2.13        RoyaltIes. In addition to permits, timber harvesting is subject
to the payment of forest royalties (fees) to the forest administration. The -
royalty consists of two elements: a use tax or stumpage fee (panipaciOn
nacional) and additional administration and environmental taxes. The
stumpage fee is the price that the Government charges the permitholder for
timber removed from public forest reserves. This fee varies by timber
species according to wood quality (ordinary, special and very special) with
more valuable species charged a higher rate. The additional taxes are
earmarked to support reforestation, the provision of technical services for
forest administration and supervision, and forestry research. These taxes do
not vary according to the quality of the wood removed but are rather a
constant rate charged per cubic meter removed. Loggers of privately owned
forests pay no stumpage fee, only the technical services tax.
2.14        Royalty levels vary significantly between the different entities
administering the forest resources. The degree of discretion is influenced by
the need of the various institutions to rely on direct income from forests for



- 10-
their operations versus other sources of income, the differing mechanisms
applied to adjust the levels for inflation, and the tolerance level of forest
users. As a general principle, the stumpage fee reflects a percentage (10-
30%) of the wood price in the local market.
2.15        lImber Extraction and Procesig. Loggers and sawmills
exhibit considerable waste in the extraction and utidization of timber. Since
the royalties become due after a log is extracted from the forest, not when
the tree is felled, the logger has little incentive to apply efficient harvesting
and transport techniques before royalty payment is made. In timber
processing, sawmills utilize outdated technology and little capital investment.
Their technology produces a high proportion of waste (i.e., large kerfs, poor
quality control) and low quality output. Much of the lumber must be resawn
to make it acceptable for commercial use. In addition, timber is often sawed
into blocks in the field using chainsaws. Viually no wood waste is used for
secondary uses such as lumber drying so that the efficiency of wood use in
production (the percentage of timber harvested to actual wood product) is
only 30-50%. In view of the low wood prices, partly caused by low royalty
levels and collection rates, firms are clearly substituting the relatively cheap
wood for more expensive capital in their production process. Currently, the
market incentives are inadequate to induce wood users to improve the
technologies they apply in wood processing.
2.16        Forest Policy Reform. The existing arrangements for naual
forest management need reform to enhance the efficiency of resource use,
lower the costs, and bring about a more equitable distribution of the
economic rents generated. In principle, there should be a shift from the
existing command and control approach to a more market-based redirection
of incentives to forest users. Attempts to reform have so far focused
narrowly on revenue aspects, administrative processes, and timber
classification.4 The wider economic and social context is not yet sufficiently
analyzed. A policy shift is constmined by related uncertainties in forestdand
ownership, the formulation of a national biodiversity stategy (paa 1.12),
the legal and institutional framework, an inadequate infrnation base (zoning
of land use, geographic information system, and technological packages for
forest and protected area management).
Land Tenure in the Choc6 Region
2.17        Of the total area of the Choc6 Region, some 9.1 million ha,
over one million ha is taken up by protected areas, mainly national parks,
and over one million ha is in existing indigenous reserves (see also
para. 1.14). Taidng into account existing individually titled land, areas
occupied by indigenous groups for which reserves are not yet legally
established, and proposals for additional protected areas, it is estimated that
some four million ha, or 44% of the Choc6, is currently without clear land
4.    Marla Teresa Mota Teo: Rgimen de Apwdzwnleto del Bosqu Nat4Wl y
Skam de TaSaS Foresrt. Infoime Final, Ocibre de 1992.



- 11 -
ownership (other than as open acess Government land) and would be
available for the collective ftling of black communities under the stipuladons
of the new law on the titling of such communides.
2.18        Ttling Procedure for Black Communities in the Choc6
Region. Law No. 70 of August 27, 1993 on the Ttling of Black
Communides establishes that, as a first step, the interested community would
prepare a formal request to the Colombian Agrarian Reform Institute
(INCORA), accompanied by documentation on the following aspects of the
area that is proposed for land tiding: (i) the physical description; (u) the
ethnological and historical background; (iii) the demography; and (iv) the
traditional production methods. The reqjests and the documentation would
be reviewed by a joint commission composed of officials from INCOrA, the
Geographic Institute (IGAC), and INDERENA, which will carry out the
technical evaluation of the requests and determine the areas for which
collective titles would be given to each community. INCORA will then have
120 days to complete the legal titling process.
Existing National Goverment Programs
2.19        Forestry Action Plan for Colombia (PAFC). PAFC is
Colombia's national forest development strategy for: (i) the management and
conservation of forest ecosystems; (ii) the rehabilitation and protection of
degraded forest areas; and (iii) the economic and institutional strengthening
of the forestry sector. PAFC is part of the international Tropical Forestry
Action Plan (TFAP).5 The formulation of the PAFC involved a two-year
effort of analysis and consensus building among over ninety organizations
and was supported technically and financially by various multi- and bilateral
donors. PAFC was approved by the National Council on Economic and
Social Policy (CONPES), in June 1989, and its implementation is included in
Colombia's National Development Plan (1990-1994).
2.20        The Technical Secreaiat (SecTec) in the Agricultural
Development Unit of DNP has been the main agency involved in the
planning process for PAFC. It coordinates the PAFC implementation
through contractual agreements with various agencies, mainly the regional
corporations, INDERENA and the training institutions. Between 1991 and
1993, SecTec was supported by financial and technical assistance from the
Government of The Netherlands and FAO. Since its start in 1987, SecTec
has been worlkng in three main areas: (i) legal and policy instruments
necessary to achieve the proposed objecdves; (ii) formulation and
implementation of projects, based on regional and local initiatives; and
(iii) identification of financial resources to implement the PAFC projects.
5.    TFAP is an international initiative launched in 1985 by UNDP/FAO, the Wodd
Resources nsttut, and the Word Bank to undertk worldwide action against
fiurther destuction of tropical forests.



- 12 -
2.21        Various projects and progrms have evolved as a result of
PAFC, some with the coopeaon of intemadonal donor agencies, mainly
The Netherlands, Germany, the European Community, and Canada. PAFC
identifies six program areas (Land Use Planning, Forest Industries
Development, Social Forestry, Technology Transfer, Forest Ecosystems, and
Institional Strengthening) and contains 67 project profiles t  to these
areas. Specific activities now under way include GIS mapping, development
of area mangement plans, management of natual forest, afforestation,
ecological and economic evaluation of traditional systems of wood harvesting
and processing, and the implementation of action plans for strategic national
parks (see para. 2.24 for major programs affecting the Choc6 Region).
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
2.22        The Bank's experience with natural resource management
projects in Colombia is limited to the -Upper Magdalena Pilot Water
Management Project' (Loan 2069-CO) and the integated rural development
projects (DRI), of which a third phase program (Loan 3250-CO) is currently
under implementation. The Upper Magdalena Pilot Project was designed to
test forest production and land consenration measures. However, it did not
achieve its targets or provided the basis for the prepation of a larger
followup project envisaged for the entire river basin, largely because of
management instability and lack of commitment in the implementing agency,
INDERENA. Nevertheless, the projecct helped alter perceptions and
attitudes of Colombia's decisionmakers about the importance of protecting
critical watersheds, as reflected in the design of PAFC (and the proposed
NRMP). To overcome the institutional problems encountered with the past
project, the proposed NRMP would use mainly regional environmental
corpoations for the implementation of field programs. These corporations
are better suited than a central agency to enlist beneficiaries' participation
because of their proximity to fte field Opeations and the reprentation of
local institutions and people on their boards. The focus of the DRI projects
was mainly on alleviation of poverty through multsectoral programs for rural
development, which, iner alia, include reforestation and watershed
protection activities. Lessons learned from these relatively successful
projects bave been incorporated into the design of NRMP, in patcular the
use of exisng, highly decentlized institutions, cofinancing of investments
with the implementing agencies/beneficiaries, and project appraisals and
management by a central Government agency.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.23        The main thrust of Bank assistance to Colombia from the mid-
1980s has been to help establish a policy environment supportive of growth
led by fte private sector. Substantial structal reforms have taken place in
1990-91. However, as long-standing policy impediments are lifted, the need
to address other constaints becomes more evident. One of these major
constraints relates to the degradation of the natural resource base. The new
Constitution of 1991 includes environmental management among the main



- 13 -
dudes of the State, and the 1990-94 development plan proposes to strengthen
environmental protection agencies, including the establishment of a new
ministry, and to start programs for the managenent of watersheds, forests,
and natural parks. The Govermment has requested the Bank to support its
natural rmource progran because of the Bank's experience witn this type of
operation in the Region and elsewhere. The proposed NRMP requires
complex policy actions which are relatively new to Colombia. For example,
the need to: (i) improve the institudonal and regulatory framework in natural
resource management; (ii) develop a sound national forest policy; (iii) clarify
land rights, in particular for the Afro-Colombian population in the Choc6;
(iv) involve indigenous and black communities in project planning,
implementadon and environmental monitoring (para. 2.25); (v) support
investments made by communities for the rehabilitation of vital watersheds
on a matching grant basis; and (vi) improve the management of national
parks.
2.24       Through its involvement in NRMP, the Bank can also help
coordinate a range of related institution-building and development initatives
which address forestry and environment issues. These include the PAFC at
the national level, and the Pacific Plan (March 1992) at the regional level.
Within that planning framework, NRMP activities would be complemented
by: (i) the "Environmental Program," supported by a loan from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), which would help establish and
strengthen the MoE, improve watersheds and national parks in areas different
from NRMP, and establish a National Environmental Fund to support the
implementation of environmental projects; (ii) the GEF/UNDP-supported
-Bio-Pacfflco Project," which provides mainly technical assstance to help
conserve the biodiversity in the Choc6 Biogeographic Region;" and (iii) an
1DB-supported -Pacific Plan Project" at the early identification stage that
would improve the social and economic infrastructure of mainly urban areas
of the Pacific Coast. As to the agreed interbank coordination on natural
resource management activities, the IDB-supported Environmental Program
would focus on the central and northem parts of Colombia, and would not
include natural forest management nor address forest policy, land tenure and
indigenous peoples issues. The Bank's regional focus under the NRMP will
be the western parts (the Western Cordillera and the western slope of the
Central Cordillera, and the Choo6 Region), where biodiversity, natal forest
management, land titling and indigenous peoples concerns are of prime
importance.
2.25        As to Indigenous peoples, 90% of the population in the Choc6
is Afro-Colombian, and 4% Amerindian. The proposed NRMP would
support specific development activities for both Amerindians and Afro-
Colombians through: training, education and outreach programs in the parks
and buffer zone areas, reviews of their legal rights in the park areas, the
titling and demarcation of both indigenous reserves (resguardos) and black
communities, and financial support for the operations of regional committees
of representatives of those groups.



- 14 -
3. THE PROJECT
3.1 The proposed Natural Resource Management Program (NRMP) is part
of Colombia's Forestry Action Plan (PAFC). It was identified and prepared
by DNP (SecTec) and the FAO Investment Center (FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program). Loan negotiations were held in Washington from
October 18-21, 1993.
Objectives and Brief Description
3.2        Objectives. The key objective of NRMP would be to develop,
through the carrying out of specfic actions, policies and mechanisms that
would contribute to arrest the ongoing degradation of natural renewable
resources. It would be the first phase of a longer-term program and would
be expected to generate the policy, institutional and technical base for future
forest management and land titling investments in the Choc6 Region.
Investments under the NRMP would be confined to the western ports of
Colombia In the Choc6 Region, the specific objective would be to help
conserve the primary moist forest and its biodiversity. In the highland areas
of the Westen and Central Cordilleras, the specific objective would be to
assist in halting and reversing forest conversion and degadation. The
NRMP would pursue these objectives through: (i) the development of a
policy, information, and institutional base for forest management, with a
particular focus on the Choc6 Region; (ii) the rehabilitation and protection of
selected water catchment areas in the highlands; (iii) the improved
management of national parks; and (iv) the strengthening of
environmental/forestry education, training and research, and of program
management, including project preparation and evaluation, and the
involvement of a panel of independent experts.
3.3        Brief Description. The NRMP, estimated to cost
US$65.3 million, would support: (i) the development of a national forest
policy and of a strategy for natural resource management in the Choc6
Region; specific NRMP-supported actions in the Choc6 would include:
ecological zoning; the establishment of an environmental monitoring system
for four ongoing forest use projects; titing and demarcation of indigenous
reserves; titling of black communities; institutional analysis of five regional
autonomous corporations; and support to regional committees of black and
Amerindian communities (US$10.8 million); (ii) investments for the
protection of selected watersheds located between the Western and Central
Cordilleras (US$25.7 million); (iii) investments for the improved
management of national parks and buffer zones in western Colombia (US$8.7
million); and (iv) strengthening of programs and institutions for
forestry/environmental education, training, research and pilot projects,
NRMP management and coordination, and of its project preparation and
evaluation capacity, also involving a panel of independent experts
(US$20.1 million).



- 15 -
Detaied Features
Table 2: Area Focus, Finan9cng Periods and Implem        Agencies
Pol:cy & Strategy Devd_ovmnent                  __     _            _
- Fores PolicY Development      XX                          2      DNPIERENA)
- Ecological  Lng              -                           2     DNP (IGAC)
- Environmental Monitoint System        XX                  5      CARs:INDERENA
- Titn bdieous Rmd.                     XX           .      S     INCORA
- Titing Black Communities              XX                  2     INCORA aGAC;
______________________                   ______    INDERENA)
L- Anlysis of CopOmtioDS                XX _2                     DNP
- Renional Committee                     XX                 S     DNP
Watershed Rebabilitation
- Nariiio Watersheds                             XX         5     CORPONARNO
- Nanino Fuelwood                                XX         S     CORPONARINO
- Cauca/Valle-4ndigenous Groups                  XX         5     CVC
- Vale Watersbeds                                XX         S     CVC
- Antioquia Watersheds                           XX         S     CORNARE;SEAG
___________   ___  ~~~~~~~ICORPOURABA
National Parks Managent                  XX        X         5      INDERENA: CVC
E- ducadfo  Traiig,     S.
- University Educaton - ICFES   X                 X         5     ICFES
i~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ___                         ______   (Universities)
- Vocatonal Trainin - SENA               X        X         S     SENA
- Foresky Research              X        X        X         S     Vaious public and
-   -     -      ____  ~~~~~~~private
- Coodin       Unit- DNP/UC     X        X        X         5     DNP
- Prosect Prep./Eval. Consultants        X        X         5     DNP
- Panel of IdEt ExpeRt s        X        X     X            S     DNP
A. National Forest Pocy, and Strategy Development for
the Choce Region
3.4          National Forest Policy Development (US$1.0 million over
two years). NRMP would help refine Colombia's national policy framework
for the forest sector. NRMP-financed intenionally recruited consultants
would, with collaboration from DNP, INDERENA and the regional
corporations, prepare a comprehensive forest sector report for review duing
the NRMP mid-term evaluation (paras. 3.22 (v) and 4.13) that would:
(a) assess existing limitations on forest sector growth and sustainability; and
(b) recommend policy refonns and acdons ta could be implemented to



- 16-
overcome these limitations. T,he report would provide the analytical base for
a drft CONPES document on forest policies, including concessions,
harvesting pernits and royalties. Its prparation would involve consensus
building with the affected population and take account of a number of
previous studies, including the PAFC strategy and documents, a study on
sustainable forest policies, that is being carried out in 1993 by
INDERBNA/DNP with support from Intemational Tropical Timber
Organization, and an evolving National Biodiversity Strategy (para. 1.12).
The NRMe forest sector study would focus on economic and institutional
aspects that have not previously been analyzed in sufficient depth, or need
updating. New factors to be considered include: the impact of the more
recent changes in Colombia's macropolicy orientation (apentura), the
heightened awareness for community participadon and environmental issues
brought about by the new Constitution, the reorganization of the legal and
institutional framework for the forest and environmental sectors, titling of
black communities and indigenous territories in forest reserves, and
Colombia's decentralization policy. The analysis would cover the following
main study areas: (i) direct and indirect causes of deforestataon and forest
degradation, differentiated by region; (ii) land tenure issues that impact the
production on forest lands; (iii) supply and demand for forest products;
(iv) domestic market strucure for forest products; (v) factors affecting the
international trade of forest products, both timber and non-timber, and
opporunities for expansion; (vi) the functioning of the regulatory framework
and of public and private sector institutions involved in the management of
forest resources; (vii) the functioning of government policies for the
management of forest reserves; and (viii) infbrmation needs.
3.5         While the above forest policy development activities
(para. 3.4) have a national focus, the other planning and pilot investment
activities described in para. 3.6-3.12 below would address specific issues of
the environmentally fragile Chocd Region (see also Table 2 above). This
Region has an incomplete data base and information system, weak
environmental institutions, and inadequate populr participation. Efforts to
clarify land rights in foret areas, especially for the black communities, have
only recently started. The NRM-supported strategic planning and piloting
activities would contribute to resolve these issues and to prepare the
technical, legal and institutional base for the identification and preparation of
a project intervention for improving forest and protected area management of
the Choc6.
3.6         Ecological Zoning of the Chocd Region (US$1.9 million over
two years). The objectives are to: (i) produce a first integrated assessment
of the Choc6 Region at a scale of 1:500,000 based on available data for the
region; (ii) produce a new base cartography at a scale of 1:200,000 including
h;vdrology, geomorphology, and land-use and vegetation; (iii) identify critical
management issues and areas, and integrate the information on environment,
biodiversity and natural resources, demographic and economic processes; and
(iv) develop a Geographic Information System (GIS) for the Choco with the
primary information and wning results, oriented as a tool for regional



- 17-
analyss, planning and decisionmaidng, based locally at the department level
and accessible to different institutions and social groups. lTe subproect
would be executed by DNP through a service management agreement with an
appropriate service agency such as FONADE, a publicly owned enterprise
with financial character linked to DNP. IGAC will be subcontracted for the
photointepretaton, cartogrphy and digitizing of the 1:100,000 Intera radar
images that will be used for generAng the new ctographic base. It would
be a confdot of efectilveness of the proposed loan that the semvice
management agreement, acceptable to the Bank, had been signed
(pama. 6.1 (a)(iv)). The Ecological Zoning subproject will create the
cartographic base and GIS for integrating the infmation generaed by the
parailel Bio-Pacfflco project (pama. 2.24 (ii)). To ensure effective inter-
agency and  otlinay cordination, DNP will create a specific
coordinaon committee that includes reprentatives from DNP
(Environmental Pgrams Coordination Unit, PAFC, Mciflc Plan Project),
INDERENA, Bio-Pacfdico, IGAC, the evironmental corporations, CORPES,
and the management service agency selected.
3.7         Envromnental Monioring (US$3.7 million over five years).
The objectives of this subproject are to: (i) ascertain the immediate and
medium-term emvironmental and social impacts of four seected (ver
different) forest use projects on the narl suoundings and the quality of
life Of local inhabitants; (Ii) grate sainable forst management
parameters for long-term, fIrest-based exacive activities in the Choc6
Region; and (iii) srngthen the institutonal capaity for   ro l
maonitoing. NRP would support the establishment, eq    and
oon of four-person monitoring teams within the regional evonvb atal
agencies for each ft  proect to be monitored. In admintat  and
functional matter, these teams would report to the Heads of Natural
Resources in the respwective regional corporaons or INDEINA; in
echnical maters they would report to speciaized staff in DNP's
Coordinating Unit that would be supported by visitng internationally
recruited avimental monitoring spedalists. The four fot-use prects
to be monitored were selected on the basis of their potential to srve as
innovative pilot or resech projects, their institutional capacity and
commitment to generate new information, and their coverage of different
areas in the Choc6 Region:
(a)   the -Naidf Palm Extraction Project" in the Guapf area,
managed by CORPONARIIO; the implementation of this
projct would be seprtely supported as a pilot project under
the NRMP fores research component (par  3.20);
(b)  the "Guandal Forest Use and Consavato Poject" in the
Sanquianga River area of the Nariflo departinent, which is
being supported by a gant from the Government Of The
Netherlands and implemented by CORPONARI1O and the
National Jniversity at Medellfn;



- 18-
(c)  the commercial dmber extracdon opertons in the lower
Ata  River basin, which are being supervised by
CODECHOCO; and
(d)  the "Intgated Forest Management Project" in the Urab
region of Antioquia that is being implemented by INDERENA
(Antioquia Regional Office).
3.8         Mting and Demartlon of Indigenous Reseres
(Resguandos) (US$0.5 million over five years). NRMP would support:
(i) the definition and legal protecdon of indigenous (Amerindian) lands in the
Choc6 Region. This would include granting of land titles by INCORA, the
Agarian Reform Institute, to indigenous groups (about 7,000 persons) who
do not have secure land tides, and establishing about 40 new resguardos; and
(ii) the marking of the boundaries of 123 existing resgpdos by INCORA
with the assistance from the Ministry of Govenment, benefitting about
61,000 indigenous peoples.
3.9         Milnlg of Black Communies (US$2.0 million over two
years). The objective of this subproject would be to support initial actions to
regubarize and title land of black communities in the Pacific Region, under
the terms of the Law No. 70 (par 2.18). Currently, most of the land in the
Choc6 Region is a public forest reserve under direct State admiSon. A
clarificaton of the land ownership situation is essentil for the design of
resource management and consevation policies, in order to assess the
convergence of interests of the parties affected and involved, the distribution
of economic benefits and costs, the degree to which market-based incentives
can be used successfully, and the justificaton, if needed, of compatory
measures for extenal costs and benefits (see also para. 3.4). NRMP would
support the following activities:
(a) the establishment of coo dination mechanisms between:
(i) INCORA and other public agencies involved in the land
titling process: INDERENA, IGAC, ICAN (Colombian
Institute of Anthopology), and the Ministry of Government;
and (ii) these agencies and the black communities;
(b) the preparation of a study to estimate the level of demand for
titling, identifying the regional priorities, cr ical areas and
potential problems;
(c)   a technical support and training program oriented to the public
institutons and private conrfactors in order to develop fte
capacity for performing the titling process using Global
Positioning System (GPS) technology;



- 19-
(d)   field work with the communities infonning them on the tiling
procedures, and supporting their organization proces an. the
first phase of the titing process (clarification of community
grouping, boundaries of the areas, description of demographic,
ethno-historic and land-use factors);
(e)  the provision of logistical and financial support for the
functioning of the interinstitutional and operational titling
committees established under (a) above;
(f)  the preparation of planimetric maps of each community;
(g) INCORA's core activities of land titling and registration
related to the program for the black communities; and
(h)   INCORA's incremental coordination and supervision activities,
including minor equipment purchases for the use of GIS data.
3.10        INCORA will implement these NRMP-supported activities
under contract with DNP. In view of INCORA's limited capacity for
implementing this net- program, INCORA would be strengthened under the
Program (para. 3.09 (g) and (h)), and would subcontract activities (b)
through (f) of the previous pragraph to specialized agencies (such as ICAN,
IGAC and INDERENA), private firms, and to regional and departmtal
committees. An indenstitutional committee composed of representatives
from INCORA, IGAC, and INDERENA would evaluate the land titling
requests received from the communities and take final decisions on area
allocations for titling (para. 2.18).
3.11        InstIutional Anabsis of lve Regional Autonomous
CorporatIons (US$0.5 million over 2 years). The objective of this
subproject would be to: (i) carry out an institutional analysis of the five
regional autonomous corporations in the Choc6 Region; and (ii) prepare
proposals and dated action plans for the reorientation and restucturing of
these corporations to improve their capacity and efficiency for the
management of the environment and of natual resources.6 The corporations
included are: CORPONARIRO (Dept. of Nariflo); CRC (Dept. of Cauca);
CVC (Dept. of Valle del Cauca); CODECHOCO (Dept. of Choc6); and
CORPOURABA (Dept. of Antioquia). The new Envirnmental Law foresees
that these corporations would assume responsibility for natural resource
management for the entire Biogeographic Choco Region. The institutional
analysis would be carried out by a local consulting firm. The results of the
analysis would be an input for future development activities in the Choc6
Region and should be available for the mid-term review of NRMP. The
analysis would cover the following aspects:
6.    The reorientation of CARs would also be based on the directions given by the new
Environmeta Law, if enacted.



- 20 -
(a)   Asess current administrative structures and functions of each
corpoation; inten  and extemal procedures; quality and
levels of pesoMnnel; capacity and efficiency in executing
projects; efficiency in collecting resource use fees,
apprehending violators, and delivering fines;
(b)  review financial and budgeting conditions; current sources and
levels of corporate income; desdnation of these resources;
analysis of expenditures and incomes;
(c) evaluate the current and future demand for corporation (and
future Ministry of the Environment) services in their future
jurisdicton in relation to ongoing and planned development
projects, taking into account the phasing-out of INDERENA;
(d)   determine and recommend the principal future lines of action,
with emnphasis on forest management and natural resources
conservation;
(e)   prepare a system for environmental monitoring across the
Choc6 Region which could provide input to environmental
assessments of future development activities;
(f)   design operating manuals for all corporations in relation to
their enhanced environmental functions; and,
(g) In addition, the subproject would contribute to help clarify the
relationships between the corporations and the evolving MoE,
in particular, in aspects of: (i) the support requirements of
these corporations from the proposed Ministry and National
Environmental System; (ii) coordination with regional and
central agencies, e.g., CORPES and the Ministy, respectively;
and (iii) firther claification of the corporations'
responsibilities for protected areas, national parks, and buffer
zones, and for the administation of marine and coastal
resources and fisheres.
3.12       Regional Co _mitee (US$1.3 million over five years). The
objective would be to support the operation of mostly existing regional
committees of delegates of local communities and community-based groups
from both the Amerindian and Afro-Colombian populations in the Choc6
Region. The comnuttees would monitor the implementation of NRMP
projects and of other environmentally sensitive private and public projects
and developments in the area. The commitees would be expected to identify
environmental problems as they arise, both at the planning and
implenientation stages, build consensus on the appropriaft responses that
should be underaken, and support the proposed actions that would lead to
mitigation or correcdon of perceived or actual environmental damages. The
comumttees would also monitor the practices of hiring and training local



- 21 -
people by the NRMP implementing agencies to ensure that local people are
adequately represented in the decisionmaking processes. Furthernore,
communities at the departmental level would be involved in the coordination
of land titling activities (paras. 3.8 and 3.9). Eligible funding support under
this component would include travel expenses and per diems for the delegates
to attend the committee meetings, and operational expenses of the committees
and their organizers (staff, consultants, materials). DNP would be
responsible for managing the funding of these activities for each committee.
This component would complement other community participation and
indigenous peoples development activities that are included in the components
of ecological zoning; titling and demarcation of indigenous reserves and black
communities; and reviews of land rights, both in general and for specific
parks, that would be carried out under the national parks component of
NRMP.
B. Watershed Protection and Rebablitation
3.13        NRMP would support local projects to protect and rehabilitate
critical watersheds located between the Western and Central Cordilleras
(estimated to cost US$25.7 million). The watersheds would be ranked and
selected according to the benefits expected from the interventions, the size of
the area and the severity of the erosion problem, and the organization and
commitment of the affected populations. The detailed selection criteria are
contained in the NRMP Operations Manual (para. 4.5). The projects would
include tree planting and soil conservation undertaken by communities,
groups, and individual farmers, that would be supported by NRMP
implemnenting agencies, e.g., CARs of Nariflo, Valle del Cauca and
Antioquia, and the Department of Antioquia (Secretariat of Agriculture,
SEAG). The latter would also provide technical assistance to the
CORPOURABA corporation for project preparation and implementation.
CARs and SEAG would prepare detailed annual plans for rehabilitatng
critical watersheds in their command areas for approval by DNP. They
would, under contractual agreements with DNP, implement those plans with
matching grants from central Government that would be reimbursable from
the Loan. They would also be responsible for making arrangements with the
benefiting communities and populations for the protection and maintenance of
the rehabilitated watersheds, without furfther support from central
Government. During the NRMP five-year financing period, a total area of
about 143,500 ha is expected to be treated, which would include:
(i) microwatershed protection program, principally to promote through
extension-type field work improved land-use practices and reforestaion that
conserve soil and water resources. A subprogram for the treatment of
severely degraded microwatersheds (12,000 ha) would focus on steep,
heavily eroded grazing areas m Antioquia, for which protecton through
regeneration of forest cover is the most viable option. In those severely
degraded areas, technical assistance and limited quantities of physical h1puts
would be provided in exchange for which the lardowner would agree to
maintain the forest for watershed protection; and (ii) community fuelwood
plantations to produce fuelwood and other wood products on a larger scale to



- 22 -
reduce pressure on remauung highland natural forests, alleviate poverty and
protect the natural environment. The total area for reforestation activities of
all Idnds is expected to comprise about 24,800 ha.
3.14        To induce farmers and communities to participate in watershed
protecdon and fuelwood plantings, several already proven incentive
mechanisms would be used, including: (i) the exchange of services, whereby
the implementing agency would agree with existing community organizations
to provide certain goods and services for realizing a high priority community
project other than reforestation, while the community would, in exchange,
provide the labor and land for the reforestation or watershed protection
project, supported by agency-provided seedlings, other inputs needed for
reforestation, and paid forest maintenance for a certain period; (ii) farn
productivity enhancement, where agricultural production from more fertile
individual farm land would be increased through greater use of improved
technologies (agroforestry, fruit trees, improved seeds, fertilizers, apiculture)
thereby releasing margnal land for protective tree plantings which would be
supported by technical assistance, subsidized inputs, and maintenance
payments from the agency. The farmer would provide land, labor and agree
to follow a management plan for such protective forests; (iii) on-farm tree
nurseries, whereby the implementing agency would contact selected fairm
families to produce seedlings, and provide land and labor to plant trees and
maintain them. The agency would provide training and technical assistance,
inputs needed, and pay an additional fee for each tree produced, planted, and
maintained; and (iv) the Integrated Program for Watershed Management
(PRIDECU) approach, whereby communities interested in afforestation sign a
contract with the implementing agency under which the latte supplies
planting material, inputs and technical assistance, while the community
arees to observe the technical recommendations for plantation management.
In the case of commercial plantations established under PRIDECU, the
community would repay at harvesting time, as is currently done, the agency's
inlation-adjusted contribution, but expenses for purely protective plantations
would not be recovered.
C.  agement of National Parks and Buffer Zones
3.15        NRMP would strengthen the capacity of the National Parks
Service, currently under INDERENA, to protect some of westemn Colombia's
most diverse and threatened ecosystems (estimated total cost US$8.7 million).
Specific actions would include: (i) development of the institutional capacity
of the National Parks Service, and of CVC for the eastern part of the
Farallones National Park (see para. 3.16), through funding of incremental
staff, infrastructure and technical assistance at the central and regional levels,
to ensure satisfactory execution of the park prcjects included under the
NRMP; (ii) training in the management of protected areas in the Choc6
Region of: (1) National Parks Service headquarters and regional personnel,
and (2) local field staff of public and private entities involved;
(iii) development of park management plans that would oe prepared in close
consultation with local communities, and the provision of infrastructure and



- 23 -
personnel needed to adequately manage nine existing national parks covering
some 900,000 ha (Sanquianga, atama, Munchique, Utrfa, Farallones de
Call, Katios, Gorgona, Paramillo, and Las Orqufdeas); (iv) establishment
(through surveys, boundary establishment and legal gazetting) and
preparaton of management plans for additional special management areas
that would be selected by INDERENA on the basis of their extraordinary
biodiversity value; (v) community conservation and environmental education
in the park areas and buffer zones; (vi) development of a stwategy and a draft
action plan for the long-term funding of protected areas; and (vii) specific
monitoring and evaluation of protected area developments using biophysical
and socioeconomic indicators.
3.16        The component, during its first year, would include a pilot
phase to adapt the existing design to field conditions as they develop and
information becomes available. Environmental non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and local community groups, in particular those
representng indigenous and Afro-Colombian populations, would be involved
in the planning and implementation of the various activities of the National
Parks component to ensure that their rights and interests are intgrated in the
development plans (see also para. 4.7). Over time, most local management
responsibilities may be assumed by departnental governments, or regional
corporations in partnership with local communites. However, centralized
decisionmaking would prevail until the parls system is deemed safe from
unauthorized exploitation. The eastern part of the Farallones National Park,
as an exception, would continue to be managed by CVC, since this park was
established by CVC prior to the creation of INDERENA and the national
parks system. For each protected area, core and buffer zones would be
selected. Use of naual resources in the core zones would be strictly
controlled by the National Parks Service. In the buffer zones, traditional
activities, st-ch as the sustainable extaction of wildlife, fruits, nuts and wood
products would be allowed to continue, as long as these are not damaging the
environment or contrary to area objectives and regulations.
3.17        Under NRM, the National Parks Service would be supported
by funding at the central level: (i) a coordination and planning team
consisting of a project coordinator and about eight technical and legal staff;
and (ii) an administrative support team of about four staff. To implement
NRMP activities in the nine existing national parks and buffer zones, and the
special management areas to be selected by the mid-term evaluation of
NRMP (para. 3.22 (v)(2)), an additional 88 technicians (extensionists,
rangers, and guards) would also be needed.
D. Forestry/Environmenl Education, Training, Resarch,
Project Mement, and Monltoring/Evaluation
3.18        Education and University Research (US$8.2 million over
five years). NRMP would contribute to increase the availability of trained
manpower for the forestry/environment sector by: (i) improving the fcilides
of existing training institutions through the provision of civil works



- 24 -
(workshops, classrooms, laboratories, documentation center) and equipment;
(ii) strengthening the teaching capacity through funding of postgraduate
studies and workshops for teachers and research fellows, and contracting for
the first two to truee years additional teaching staff at the forestry schools;
(iii) funding allowances for trainee technicians to stimulate interest in
technical training; (iv) funding in-service training (refresher courses) for
professionals and technicians; (v) funding PAFC-related reach programs
(theses, research seminars) at universites with degree training in forestry;
and (vi) strengthening of the Colombian Institute for Higher Education
(ICFES) to administer and monitor the NRMP-supported education and
university research activities through the provision of funds for travel and
subsistence expenditures, the purchase of equipment and materials, and for
consultancies to modify training curricula and incorporate environmental
moduli. ICFES would implement the component on a competitive basis,
appraising and selecting proposals from iterested universities and forestry
schools, and entering into contractual agreements with each agency. The
following higher educational institutions are expected to participate: National
University Medellin; University of Tolima; University of Garcia Rovira,
Mgga; District University Bogott; Forestry College Caldas; Forestry
School Piedras Blancas; and Centro de Estudios Superiores Maria Goreti
(CESMAG), Tuquerres (Narihlo).
3.19        Vocational Trainig (US$2.7 million over five years). The
National Training Service (SENA) would, under contract with DNP, provide
vocational waining for semi-skilled staff and workers in forestry and
environmental protection, with priority given to personnel from the Cnoc6
Region.
3.20        Forestry Research (US$5.4 million over five years). NRMP
would support about nine selected forestry research and demonstration
projects that would be implemented by a variety of public and private
institutions under contract with DNP. Five of the nine identified projects
would enhance the technical base for plantation forestry; one would monitor
the environmental impact of plantations; and three would be pilot projects for
natural forest management in the Choc6 Region. Support under NRMP
would be for the following research operations: (i) species and management
trials with ten high value tropical timber species--to be implemented by
FEDECAFE, the National Coffee Growers Federation; (ii) management and
conservation of forest genetic resources of the Andean Region-also to be
implemented by FEDECAFE; (iii) establishment and operation of a technical
and statcal data base and information system for industrial plantations-to
be implemented by ACOFORE, the Colombian Association of Reforesters;
(iv) development of methods for the protection of industrial plantations
against diseases, physiological damages and forest fires-to be implemented
by CONIF, the National Forest Research Corporation; (v) genetic
improvement of high value forest species-to be implemented by
FEDECAFE; (vi) evaluation of the environmental impacts of industa
plantations-to be implemented by CONIF; (vii) improved regenation of
2,500 ha of nahtual Guandal forest in the Departnent of Choc6-to be



- 25 -
implemented by a private foret comVany, P6aderera Cental Ltda.;
(viii) i        of naidf palm production in the southern Choc6 Region-
to be  lemented by the CORPONARIAO coroxation. These natural
palms are used for the production of palm hearts, mainly for export Current
naidf foest management practc  are inefflcient and not suinable. NRMP
will analyze and develop impved prduco sytms tough
seed seon, nursy production, plantation site slectdon, sivil
treatments, and the compleot utiibtion of the palms. In conjunctio with the
development of improved  chnology, tdis proect will also prwvide oueach
ervices to local communties t transfer these advanes to local farmes; and
(ix) the inegrated oest management poject in the Urabi area of Antoquia,
which addresses issues of defoestation, frontier settlemnt and participatory
frestry-to be iml     d by INDEREN.7                     impacts of
projects (viii) and (ix) woul be sefically monitored under NRMPs
emironmental montoring subproect (pam 3.7 above).
3.21        Coordh Jding Unit (US$2.6 million over five years). NRMP
would provide support to smngte the capacty of the Colombian
Govenment to coordinate, manage, partly implement, and monitor the
Program. The Coordinating Unit would initially be located ithmin DNP, as
part of the DNP Subdircton, but tansrred to the Minstry of the
Environment once it becomes operaional. Ihe C inating  Unit would
atend the coofinato and management needs of the World Bank-supported
NRMP as wel as of the IDB-suported 3Environmental Pagrm, and
funded from both bank loans in proporto to the manpowerd
specific focus of their respective programs. The Cdinating Unit wod
consit of the offil  of the kGneral Coodio and four sealized sbunt
(secretariats) reportng to him/her that would deal with legl and financial
matters (SAP), thnic    m    (SM, istuonal matt  (SA" and the
Natonal n     m       Fund (see the program management stuctue in
Annex 4, Tible 3 (chart)). Tne Crnatig Unit would have up to 41 sta,
and its own offIlces and office  ment. About 15 staff, mostly those
assined to SAP and SAT wouwd be financed under NRMP, and about 26
staff in all subunits woudd be finand under the 1IDB-spported progrm.
Specificaly, NRMP would finance,      with reated office
and operatonal and taining costs: (i) in SAT the posto  of the head of
the SAT, three of the fiur specialists (fet policies, consrvato, and lnd
egularizdion), three of the eight prfsical assstants, and one of the t
scretaies; (i) in SAP the posito  of head of SAF, the legal counsel, a
procuremt speialisf (i.e., one of the two financial analysts), and t  of ithe
four financial assisnts; (' in SAI the postons of one of the four
profesional assistants; and (iv) in the Office of the General Codinator one
codinati  assisa   It woudd be c_m          of   entf  of the
pmposed loan that: (i) DNP had established the Coordinat  Unit in form
and subsance s acty to the Bank; and (fi) the Genal Coordinator had
taken office, and the heads of the two sertrias for tecni   and for
7.    L1a xppoit to dUb.i  poject wUd be can_gmt upon a ful appuiss by Biu
81E1 dwiog dbo fist Blk apetvi missw.



- 26 -
legal/fnancial matts (SAT and SAF) bad been appointed, all with
qualifications and expience acceptable to the Bank (pam. 6.1 (a)(ii & iii)).
3.22        Project Preparation and Evaluation by Consultants
(US$0.9 milLion). In additon to implementing the activities for policy and
stategy development (paras. 3.4-3.13 above) and the involvement of a panel
of indepedent xpers (pam 3.23 below), DNP would hire consultants to
help cary out other  ecific planing and evaluation activities. These
include: (i) a basline study that would: (1) assemble and review all existing
iformation related to NRMP activities; (2) assess the physical, economic,
social and institutional condidons in the NRMP areas at the strt of the
Program, based on existing information; and (3) refine monitoring and
evaluation indicators; 0) the design and establishment of a monitoring
system, including staff training, within the Coordining Unit and the
implementing agencies to monitor progress in the implementation of all
NRMP activities; (iii) the identification/prepaation of a future program for
naural forest management and land tiding in the Cioc6 Region;
(iv) assistance to implementing agencies for the prepaon/refinement of
specific subprojects of NRMP; (v) the mid-term review and evaluation of
NRMP, including: (1) the policy and strategy recommendations developed,
in particular for the fcrestry policy; (2) the proposals for the selection of
additional special management areas; and (3) of the design of a future
program intervention; and (vi) the preparation of the end-evaluation and the
project completion report. Asi.urance was obtained during negotiations,
that DNP would preare the comprehensive study on Colombia's forest
sector prior to the mid-term review of the NRMP (pamr 6.1 (c) (iv)). The
study would, inter alia, recommend policy reforms to make Colombia's
forest sector economically, financially and environmentally viable, and make
proposals for a revised concession policy in natral forest areas.
3.23        Panel of Independent Experts (US$0.3 million over five
years). Funds would be provided under NRMP for DNP to contract four
high level experts (two Colombian and two intemational), independent from
the Colombian Government, to carry out annual reviews of NRMP in all of
its aspects and activities, recommend adjustments in the substance and
progress of the Program, advise on queries and conflicts that may arise
during NRW implementation, and facilitate the coordination with the
various other related projects in the NRMP areas and in Colombia. During
negotiaions, agreement was reached on the detailed tenns of reference for
the panel of independent experts, and aurance was obtained that the four
independent experts, acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed within a
period of three months after the effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan
(para. 6.1 (c) (ii)).
costs
3.24        Total program costs are estimated at US$65.3 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$15.8 million, or 24%
of total program costs (as shown in Annex 1, TIbles 1 and 2). The cost



- 27 -
figures shown are estimates and are provided for plasning purposes only.
The actual allocation would be dtrmined on the basis of the contacual
arfangements with the implementing agencies. Costs wer calculated using
projected January 1994 prices and include physical contingencies of 5% for
most components. Expected price increases ove the financing period were
computed using the Bank's April 1993 projections for inenational and local
inflation (Annex 1, Table 5). Total program costs include US$4.3 million of
local and other taxes. Physical and pnice contingencies total US$15.1 million
(Annex 1, Table 2).
MFnadg
3.25       The proposed Bank loan of US$39.0 million would finance
60% of total NRMP costs, equivalent to 78% of the foreign exchange costs
and 54% of local costs. The national parks component (paras. 3.15-3.17),
estimated to cost US$8.7 million, or 13% of total NRMP costs, would be
eatirely finced by the Borrower. However, at a later stage, this component
is expected to benefit from grant support from the Minister for Development
Cooperation of The Netherlands (the Dutch Grant) that would be
administred by the Bank. The Grant, if it materializes, would replace part
of the Borrower financing of this component, and would be considered part
of the Borrwer's countepart funding.
3.26       The balance of the NRMP costs, US$17.6 million (27%),
would be financed by the implementing agencies, including the participating
communities. The Republic of Colombia would be the Borrower of hie
proposed Bank loan and bear the foreign exchange risk. DNP would
cofinance with the implementing agencies the following components/sub-
projects: environmental monitoring system, titling and demarcation of
indigenous reserves, watershed rehabilitation, education, taining, and
forestry resarch (see Annex 1, Table 3). DNP would pass on the Bank
funds on a mathing grant basis to the agencies that implement these
components. Except for the national parks component, which would not be
supported by loan funds, there would be no significant build-up in the
implementing agencies and in DNP of incremental staff, equipment and
physical stuctues which would require heavy recurrent cost financing after
the end of the external funding period. The issue of long-term financing of
the national parks system would be addressed by INDERENA through a
study (pama 3.15 (vi)) that would be reviewed during the mid-term evaluation
of NRMP.
Procurement
3.27       Procurement of goods, works and contactng of services
financed by the Bank loan would follow procedures that are acceptable to the
Bank. Standard bidding documents would be incorporated in the NRMP
Operations Manual, and would be used by the implementing agencies as the
basis for procurement. The implementing agencies and the management
service agency would, to the extent possible, procure like items under single



- 28 -
annual contrts in order to achieve quantities of scale discounts. The
Coordinating Unit will have a procuement specialist on staff (pam. 3.21)
who will coordinate the procurement activities between the implementing
agencies and ensure that procurement is being done as described in this
Section. The specialist would also carry out every six months an ex-post
technical assessment of the procurement procedures applied under the NRMP
for those actions for which procurement documentation was not subject to
prior review by the Bank, and forward the findings to the Bank.
3.2K        Annual procurement contracts for vehicles (such as cars,
trucks, motorcycles, tractors and boats), equipment (such as communication
equipment, electric plants, pumps, laboratory equipment, etc.), and materals
(such as operating and maintenance supplies) are expected to range from less
than US$1,000 to over US$400,000. International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures and the use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
would be required for contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent. Contracts
for equipment, vehicles and materials valued between US$100,000 and
US$200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of about US$9.9 million, would
follow Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, satisfactory to the
Bank. Vehicles, equipment and materials valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$13.1 million, would be purchased on
the basis of price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. Contacts
for dvil works are expected to range from US$5,000 to over US$500,000.
Given the dispersion and expected small value of works contracts, the use of
ICB would not be practcal. LCB procedures, locally advertsed and
acceptable to the Bank would be used for all works contracts expected to cost
US$100,000 or more. Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000, up to an aggregate of about US$2.1 million, would be awarded
on the basis of price quotations solicited from at least hfree qualified local
contractors. The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance financed with loan funds would be consistent with the
August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the Work Bank as Eut  Agency.



- 29 -
Table 3: Procurement of Goods and Servlces
US$ millions (incluting contingencies)
ProJect Et'mets        t i       LCB        OTEru        .A.       TCTAL
Civ  Waorks                            2.0         2.1                    4.1
(1.1)      (1.2)                  (2.3)
Vehictes and Equipment       0.S       2.5         2.0                    S.0
(0.33    (1.5)       (1.2)                  (3.0)
Naterfals, Supplies and Local           7.4        11.1                   18.4
Transportation                        (3.6)       (5.3)                  (8.9)
Salaries and Labor                                            25.1       25.1
(16.5)     (16.5)
Corsultant Services nd                             12.8                  12.8
Training                                          (8.3)                  (8.3)
Total                        0.5       11.8       28.0        25.1       65.3
(Financed by Loan)          (0.3)     (6.2)      (16.0)      (16.5)     (39.0)
(X from Loan)                                                            59.7k
Now Rmu In pensdiiuId ap adm e wilv.amoa md ho lam
3.29         Prior Review of procurement documentation by the Bank
would be required in the following cases: (i) all ICB procurement; (ii) all
LCB contracts esdmated to cost US$150,000 or more for goods, and
US$250,000 or more for works; and (iii) for consulting services as deailed
below. Prior Review by the Bank of procurement documentation for
consultant services is required in the following cases: (1) Use of individual
consultants, irrespecdve of value; (2) contracts for consulting firms estimated
to cost US$100,000 or more; (3) single-source contacts, regardless of value;
(4) contract amendments valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent, or
those that raise the total contract value above US$100,000; and (5) all terms
of reference for consultant contacts. Other consultant services contacts not
exceeding US$10 million would be subject to ex-post reviews by Bank
supervision missions on a random basis. The threshold levels for prior
review are estimated to cover 10% of the total goods, 25% of the total civil
works procurement and 20% of the category consultant services and training.
This relatively low coverage is justified in view of the number of autonomous
agencies imvolved, which renders difficult the packaging of similar works and
goods items. However, the hiring by DNP of a procurement specialist, and
te ex-post assessment of procurement would contibute to enhance the
transparency and accountability of the procurement processes (pam. 3.27).
3.30         The following Spedal Provisions would apply for procurement
under NRMP:
(a)    For ICB: (i) No prior registration of bidders shall be
required; (Ii) no requirement for local agents shall be made;
(iii) no provision regarding mnimuum number of bidders shall
be applied; (iv) bids for goods shall be evaluated on a c.i.f.
basis for foreign bids, and an ex-factory basis for local bids;
(v) freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for



- 30 -
purposes of bid evaluation; (vi) awards shall be made to the
lowest evaluated bidders; (vii) foreign bidders shall not be
required to ratify accreditation documents (power of attorney,
company registration) with Colombian consulates except for
the purpose of signing a contract; (viii) bidders shall bear the
responsibility for the accuracy of tranlions into Spanish
language of any such docwnents with no need for certification
by Colombian official agencies; and (ix) all ICB procurement
would use Bank standard bidding documents; and
(b)   For LCB: (i) No upper and lower limits (bracketing) shall be
applied to qualify the acceptability of bids unless any such
Limits have been preiously agreed with the Bank; (ii) awards
shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders;
and (iii) sndard bidding documents for LCB for goods and
civil works would be acceptable to the Bank and would be
incorporated in the Operations Manual (para. 4.5).
Assurances were obtalned during negotiations that DNP and the
participating agencies would follow the procurement requirements outlined in
pams. 3.27 to 3.30 above (para. 6.1 (c) (v)).
Disburements
3.31        The proposed Bank loan of US$39.0 million would be
disbursed over eight years, based on the standard disbursement profile
pcentages for the agricultural sector in Colombia, issued on August 2, 1993
(see Summary, page iv). The Bank would reimburse, at a rate of 100% of
the expenditures, the base costs related to policy and strategy development
(excluding the environmental monitonng system and land titling/demarcation
for indigenous resguardos) (US$5.25 million); the Coordinating Unit
(US$1.9 million); project preparation and evaluation consultants, and the
panel of independent experts (US$1.05 million), aU of which, except the
titling program for black communities, are directly implemented by DNP.
DNP's cofinanced investments with implementing agencies for the other
Program components, covering civil works, equipment and vehicles and
materials, consultants, training and operational costs would be reimbursed as
follows: (i) at the average rate of 80% of the total cost of each contract in
the case of the agencies involved in environmental monitoring
(US$2.2 million), education (US$5.0 million), vocational training
(US$1.6 million), and forestry rsearch (US$3.3 million); and (ii) at the
average rate of 50% in the case of the land titling and demarcation of
indigenous resguardos (US$0.2 million) and watershed rehabilitation
activities (US$9.5 million). US$9.0 million, corresponding to the physical
and price contingencies, will be unallocated. All disbursements are expected
to be made against statements of expenditures (SOE), except for those
contracts which had been subject to prior review by the Bank (para. 3.29).
DNP through its Coordinadng Unit would maintain the SOE documentation.



- 31 -
3.32        As a conditon of disbursements, expenditures eligible for
retrwctive financing (up to a maximum of US$3.9 million) would include:
(i) expenditures by the Coordinating Unit for which the detailed work
programs and budgets had been approved by the Bank; and (ii) expenditures
by implementing agencies, which are based on framework ageements (or
letters of intent from private sector agencies) and annual cofinancing
contract that had been approved by the Bank (pm  6.1 (b) (ii)). The
project is etpted to be completed by December 31, 1998. The Closing
Date would be December 31, 1999.
3.33        The Borrower would establish a Special Account in US$ in the
Central Bank to cover eligible expenditures under the loan. The Bank would
deposit in the Special Account up to an initial US$2.0 million (representing
the average disbursements expected for a four-month period) upon receipt of
an inital withdrawal application. Subsequent replenishment by the Bank of
the Special Account would follow the normal procedures by which loan funds
would be disbursed against actual expenditures.
Accounts and Audits
3.34        DNP through the Coordination Unit would establish and
maintain consolidated Program accounts as well as other financial records
ta are needed to account for NRMP costs and financing. Cofinancing
contracts with participating agencies would conform with the accounting and
auditing procedures as provided for in DNP's Opeaons Manual for NRMP.
Such accounting procedures would be adequate to monitor the financial
trnsations for the Program, including local payments and loan financing.
3.35        The consolidated Program accounts, the Specal Account, and
related financial information, including supportng documentation for SOEs
would be audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank,
in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. The audit would include
verification of the physical presence of goods and works financed under the
program. In addition, DNP through the Coodinatng Unit would carry out
technical assessments of the procurement procedures applied under the
NRP (para 3.27). Certified copies of the audited consolidated Program
accounts, audited Special Account in the Centmal Bank, including a separate
opinion on the use of SOEs, would be submitted annually to the Bank, not
later than six months after the close of the financial year, statng with the
audit reports for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1994. If the audits
identify significant irreguarities in the contracts with any participafting
agency, DNP would suspend dibursements to that party, and require special
audits to be caried out to ensure that these irregularities have been resolved
before disbursements are resumed. Asunes were obtained during
negotiation that the audit requirements described above would be folowed
(para. 6.1 (c) (vi)).



- 32 -
4. IAIION
Organization and      euent
4.1 Organlzation. The Department of National Planning (DNP) would
be overall responsible for NRMP management and would execute ftis
responsibility through a Coordinating Committee for Environmental Programs
and a newly established Coordinating Unit that would rport to the Sub-
Director of DNP (para. 3.21, and organization chart in Annex 4, Table 3
(Chart)). The Coordinating Unit would administer both NRMP and the IDB-
supported Environmental Program, and would be financed from the proceeds
of the loans of both muldlateal banks in proportion to the esdmated
workloads and the focus of the respective programs. Once operational, the
proposed new MoE will take over the responsibility for NRMP (and the IDB
program), and the Coordinating Unit will be transferred from DNP to MoE.
4.2         In addition to DNP, the following institutions at the national
level will be responsible for implementing certain components and
subprojects of NRMP: INCORA for land titling and demarcation activities;
IDERENA8 for national parks and buffer zone management, and the
integrated forest management prqject in Urabd, both for emvironmental
monitoring and project implementation; ICFES for higher education and
university research; and SENA for vocational training. It was agreed during
negotitions of the loan tfiat: (i) the Government would not, without
reaching agreement with the Bank, undertake any restructuring of the
Coordinating Unit and NRMP implementing agencies at the national level
(pam. 6.1 (c)61)); and (iH) DNP would present to the Bank the Coordinating
Unit's annual work plans and budgets; if satisfactory to the Bank, DNP will
not change them without the Bank's consent (para. 6.1 (c)(ii)).
4.3         At the regional or local level the regional autonomous
corporations (CARs) of the Narflo, Cauca, Valle del Cauca, Choc6 and
Antioquia departments' (CORPONARI&O, CRC, CVC, CODECHOCO,
and CORPOURABA) would be involved in strategy and policy development
activities for the Choc6 Region, e.g., forest policy development, ecological
zoning and GIS establishment, and also be subject of an institutional analysis.
CORPONARIfO and CODECHOCO would additionally establish NRMP
supported environmental monitoring systems for forest use projects.
CORPONARIFO would also implement the naidf palm subproject.
CORPONARINO, CVC, the Department of Antioquia (SEAG), CORNARE,
8.    The Division of National Paus is curndy part of INDERENA's Subdirection for
Water and Forests, but is expected to transfer to MoE.
9.    At the ead of 1993, saome of the Proram areas on the centl Pacific Coast and in
Antioquia were adminiserd by INDERENA. A  sretcuing of regial
corporations is included under the proposed new Environmental Law (par 2.6).



- 33 -
and CORPOURABA would be responsible for planning and implementing the
watershed rehabilitaon subprojects, the latter with the assistance from the
Department of Antioquia. Furthermore, mnixed-economy enterprises such as
CONIF, and private sector entities such as FEDECAFE, ACOFORE and
Madererfa Central Ltda. are expected to implement forestry research
subprojects with support from NRMP.
4.4         AdmIistrtion. DNP would execute its responsibility for
NRMP implementation and overall management, including programming and
monitoring, mainly through the Coordinadng Unit. The Coordinating Unit
would consist of the Office of the General Coordinator, and four setariats
reporting to him, i.e., for technical matt  (SAI), for institutional maes
(SAI), for financial/administrativeilegal matters (SAF), and for the
supervision of the National Environmental Fund (see Program Management
Organization Chart in Annex 4, Table 3 (Chart)). These secreariats of the
Coordinating Unit would be staffed with contracted professionals to attend
exclusively the planning and supervision requirements of NRMP and the
DB-supported Environmental Program. The Coordinating Unit would not be
an in-line unit of DNP and would therefore have no authority to sign legal
documents such as contracts with implementing agencies. The Coordinatng
Unit would thus h .ve a supporting role to the responsible line units in DNP.
It would also employ the services of a management agency to be selected,
such as the National Development Fund (FONADE), for procurement, hiring
of consultants and contract supervision. To facilitate coordination, a
Coordination Committee would be established within DNP, presided by the
Sub-Director of DNP and with the Coordinating Unit General Coordinator as
executive secretary. The Committee would meet at least every two months
to monitor Program implementation, resolve pending issues and take magjor
decisions. Members of this Committee would also include the heads of
DNP's line units for agriculture (UDA), environmental policy (DEPAC), and
general administration (General Secretariat), and the heads of the
Coordinating Unit's secretariats.
4.5         NRMP Operations Manual. The Operations Manual
(Reglamento Operadvo) describes the NRMP structure, scope and targets,
and how the Coordinating Unit would plan, identify, prepare, appraise,
contract, finance, supervise, evaluate, and account for the subprojects it
cofinances with implementing agencies. The Manual also details the
particular provisions for procurement (including standard bidding
documents), accounting, auditing, and for the formulation of implementing
agreements. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
that the NRM Operations Manual had been issued by DNP in fonn and
substance acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.1 (a)(i)).
4.6         Each public sector implementing agency would enter into a
framework agreement (conenlo marco) with DNP setting out the objective,
the obligation of the parties for the implementation of agreed NRMP
projects, the resources committed, and supervision and implementation
arrangements. The framework agreements would also contain provisions on



- 34 -
relevant envimronmental licenses and other types of permits or prohibitions,
adjused to the specific situations in the area of the implementing agency,
which aim at preventing or mitigating advere environmental impacts, and
which would Wigger a suspension of disbursement to that agency in case of
default (poam 5.2). hi addition, all mplementing agencies would prepar
annual opatons plam for NRMP-supported activities that would provide
details of work to be done, dming and expenditure (including details of
proposed local and central Goverment funding). The Coordinating Unt
would appraise these proposals, scale them by the amount of financial
supprt expected to become wailable from DNP, and consolidat tem int
an Annual Investment Plan (Plan Operatvo de htersiones). Once the
national budget is  proved, Annual Cofinancing Contcts (Coros
Anwzles de Cofinawiemo) would be prepared by the Coordinating Unit,
and aged by DNP and each implementing agency. The private and semi-
private sector entities would follow similar procedures, except that letters of
intent would be used instead of framework agreements. It would be a
conditon of effectvenes, of the proposed loan that DNP had signed
frmework ageements and first-year Annual Cofinancing Contracu,
acceptable to the Bank, witi at least the following five major implementing
agencies: INDERENA, CORNARE, CVC, CORPONARI&O, and ICFES
(para. 6.1 (a)(v)). It was also agreed during negotations that as a condition
af dosnbement oly expenditures made under DNP and Bank-approwved
Annual Investment Plans for NRMP would be eligible for funding from the
loan (para 6.1 (b)(t)).
Commu=Pniy Pa pation and Indigenous People
4.7         The Indigenous People and Community Development Plan of
NRMP, both for Amnenndian and Afir-Colombian groups, would include the
following specific activites and elements: (i) the definition and legal
protecion of indigenous land St does not have title (pam. 3.8);
(i) boundary demarcation of 123 existing resgurdos (para. 3.8); (iii) actions
to advance the process of land titling for black communities in the Choc6
Region (par 3.9); (iv) support to regional committees of representatives
from Afro-Colombian and Amerindian groups to, inter alia, filitate their
involvement in enviromental monitoring and land tiding processes
(pam 3.12); (v) within the national parks component (para. 3.15),
indigenous and Afro-Colombian rights issues would be specifically addressed
in the following aspects: (1) review of the legal status of indienous land
and of national parls with a view to prepar a law proposal that would
clarify the constitutional norms with regard to the status of indigenous lands
within protected areas; (2) review of the user rights of Afro-Colombis in
the Sanquianga National Park; and (3) review and Oegularizalon of
indigenous land rights within the Pamamillo National Park; and (vi) extensive
consultatons with the affected populations are foreseen under the sub-
components for: the ecological zoning of the Choc6 Region (pam. 3.6); the
development of a frest policy (pm 3.4); the environmental monitoring
(pam 3.7); the periodic project evaluations (pam. 3.22), and under the
external advisory arrangements (pam 3.23).



- 35 -
4.8            Furthermore, the national parks component of NRMP allocates
resources for the plnning and management co buffer zones around protected
areas, and for education, dissemination and training, all of which will benefit
the affected population and help them cany out natural resource protecton,
community integrtion, and resource management responsibilities. Park
guards, outreach workers, and forest guards would be hired from their
respective local work areas.
4.9            For the rehabilitation of watersheds, the district offices of
CARs would be responsible for assisting communities in preparing
watercatchment management profiles. Essentally, these would be snapshots
of what the communities regard as their main tree planting and soil
conservation problems and needs. The process would involve consultation at
three levels, namely, the community, the microwatershed and the watershed.
Discussions would be held between representatives of communities and the
district offices until agreement is reached on priorities and competing
demands. The profiles would be reviewed by ad hoc committees comprised
of the implementing agency and elected members of local communities.
Approved profiles would be refined into subprojects by the implementing
agencies and submitted to the Coordinating Unit for appraisal in accordance
with the criteria set out in the NRMP Operations Manual. Subproject
selection would reflect the requirements and desires of local communities (as
well as those of the State), and would be the end-product of a dialogue
between the communities and the implementing agencies.
4.10           Existing mech3nisms for involving communities and local
people in the planning and implementaion of development projects for
naturl resource management are based on the folowing institutional
strucure at the various levels of participation (Table 4 below):
(See also para. 5.2).
Table 4: Consultatlon M         anisms for Communiy Partcipaton
(as agreed durng consultations between DNP (SecTec) and
the indigenous and Afro-Colombian groups in 1992 and 1993)
PROJECT AND AFfECTED GROUPS      NATIONAL LEVEL       REGIONAL LEVEL         LOCAL LEVEL
Colombia Tropical Forestry      Central Governrent    Governors and Mayors;   District Offices of
Action Plan tPAFC);             Agences: DNP;         INDEREMA;              INDEREM and the
INDERENA; Ninistry   Regional Autonomous    Regional Autonomous
Natural Resource Management     of Gove rnment,       CorporatSons; CORPES    Corporatfons
Program (NRNP)                  Indigenous Affairs    Oecidente (Regional
Office; INCORA;       Council for Policy
BioPacffico (GEF/UNDP-INDERENA)  Coomission of the    and Socif-economfc
Transitory Article   Development of the
55 of the (1991)     West).
Constitution.
Black Cc=Amnities, Indigenous    Delegated persons of   Departmental         Coamunity Based
Coemumities, Colonists, ONIC    the ubrtella          Consultative           Group and
(National Indigefnous           comn ity based        Commssion              Traditional tocal
organization), ONUC (National   grous: OEMA,                                 Authoritifs
Society of Rural Peoples), and   ACIA, OCAA, 0APO,
the Special Comaission for the   ACADESM, ASININERO,
Titling of Black Commanitifs.    and others.



- 36-
Monitoring and Reporting
4.11       Monitoring of and reporting on NRM  implementation at the
national level would be the responsibility of the Coordinating Unit. At the
international level, a panel of independent experts would stand by to advise
on the resolution of problems and on donor coordination (para. 3.23). Day-
to-day monitoring would be carried out by staff of each implementing entity.
At the end of each quarter, the Coordinating Unit would consolidate the
results of the monitoring activities in an internal report to the DNP, based on
the results from the NRMP monitoring system and the key indicators
developed at the start of NRP (para. 3.22 (i) and (ii)) (For a preliminary
listing of key indicators, see Annex 3). By January 31 and July 31 of each
year, the Coordinating Unit would submit six-month progress reports to the
Bank and the panel of experts.
4.12       During the monitoring and periodic evaluations
(pam. 3.22), and the environmental monitoring activities (pam. 3.7),
biodiversity, social assessment, community participation, and cost recovery
aspects would be specifically addressed. Biophysical and social assessment
baseline surveys will be repeated in order to gauge change in resource value
over time. Social assessments will gauge how NRMP, and existing forest
use projects in the Choc6 Region, have changed social infrastructure,
resource use patrns, and the black and indigenous communities.
Program Evaluations
4.13       Three major evaluations of the Program would be canied out:
(i) a baseline study of physical, economic, and social conditions at the start
of the Program, to be carried out by the Coordinating Unit with the help of
local consultants; (ii) a mid-term review and evaluation of Program
performance and progress, including the. ftdllment of key indicators for all
components. The mid-term review (and end-evaluation, subpara. (iii) below)
would repeat the methodology developed for the baseline study. The mid-
term review would be carried out by an agency or consultants independent
from the Government, such as an NGO, university or research institute, and
would develop recommendations for adjustments of Program design and
implementation that would be needed for the second half of the
implementation period. Furthermore, the mid-term review would specifcally
review the analyses and recommendations which had been prepared dunng
the first two years to advance the policy, institutional and legal framework
for forest management, protected area management, land titling and
environmental monitoring in the Choc6 Region, with a view to identify a
future project intervention. It would also take account of the results and
recommendations available from the GEF/UNDP-supported "Bio-Pacifico'
(para. 2.24 (ii)); and (Wii) an end-evaluadon (including the project completion
report) of the Program at the end of the external financing period.



- 37-
S. BNENElS, l"ACr AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1         The main benefits of NRMP are environmental in nature and
cannot be quantified. These regional and national benefits (economic
externalities) include the enha..ced volume, quality and stability of water
supplies for domestic use, irrigation, and hydro-power generation, reduced
soil erosion, and a reduction of environmental damages through improved
monitoring and control. Employment opportunities would increase in the
Highlands, in particular through services asociated with reforestation and
watershed maintenance. Global externalities include the conservation of
biodiversity through the protection of humid tropical forest areas, carbon
sequestation and other non-use values.
Envhronmental bmpact
5.2         NRMP is an environmental project that generates the basis for
sustainable use of natual renewable resources, with strong participation by
local communities. NRMP is classified as an environmental 'B' category,
that required a limited environmental assessment. In October 1992 and
February 1993, community participation workshops were held with
involvement of representatives from Afro-Colombian and indigenous groups
of the Progam areas, local and international NGOs, and the various
Government institutions concerned. NRMP was presented to them, and the
workshop participants endorsed its design and recommended ways of
ehancing the involvement of indigenous groups. Independent agencies and
reresentatives of indigenous groups will continue to be involved in
reviewing annual plans, in monitoring Program implementation and
participating in evaluations. Further modifications to the strategies and
measures for environmental protection, would be introduced after the mid-
term review, based on the actual implementation experiences and the
results/recommendations from the NRMP sector and policy work, and from
related projects. In view of he potentally negative impact of other
infrastructure developments (planned or already implemented), assuace
was obtained durin  egotitions of the proposed loan that the ftamework
agreements with implementing agencies responsible for environmental
management in NRIP areas would contain provisions to ensure that these
agencies comply with the norms for environmental licensing in accordance
with the existing laws and regulations (para. 6.1 (c) (vii)). Mining
operations, civil works for roads, railways, canals and irigation districts,
and commercial timber harvesting operations were identified as particularly
sensitive in this regard. Any non-compliance with the existing norms would
prevent the participation in NRMP by the agency in question.



- 38 -
Risks
5.3         The main risks of NRMP are associated with: (i) the fluid
institutional situation in Colombia (establishment of a new Ministry of the
Environment, restructuring of regional corporations); (ii) the evolving legal
framework, e.g., a new environmental system; (iii) the process of
decentralization of government responsibilities; and (iv) the possible
continuation of the existing, unsatisfactory system of forest concessions and
other forest policies; (v) the need for cooperation by the affected populations;
and (vi) the unpredictable security situation in Colombia. While NRMP
design includes as much safeguards as possible, this has also resulted in a
complex operation hat involves many different institutions and numerous
policy elements. In view of the uncertainties listed, the scope of
inf strucr investments and of rurrent cost financing requirements
(ewcept for the national parks component) has been kept low. Nevertheless,
there is the risk that some of the implementing agencies may not perform as
timely and in as efficieady a manner as expected at appraisal. The risks are
partly offset by the strong commitment of the Government to environmental
protetion, the analysis and gradual buildup of institutional capacity in the
areas to be developed, the inclusion of specific indigenous peoples and
community development actions, and the deferral of major investments in
sensitive forest areas until after the policy, legal and institutional framework
have been clarified dunng the two-year policy and srategy development
phase of NRMP. Another manner in which the operation is designed to
manage the risks is that NRMP will be implemented as a program with a
arge degree of built-in flexibility for adjusting focus, scope and location of
the investments and activities in response to changing conditions and
opportunities.
I



- 39 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiatons of the proposed Lean, agreement from the
Government was reached on the following main actions:
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness: (i) the NRMP Operations
Manual had been issued by DNP in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.5); (ii) DNP had established
the NRMP Coordinating Unit in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (pam. 3.21); (iii) the General
Coordinator had taken office, and the heads of the two
secretariats for technical and for legal/financial matters (SAT
and SAF) had been appointed, all with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank (pam. 3.21); (iv) the service
management agreement, acceptable to the Bank, had been
signed (para. 3.6); and (v) DNP had signed framework
agreements and first-year Annual Cofinancing Contwacts,
acceptable to the Bank, with at least the following five major
implementing agencies: INDERENA, CORNARE, CVC,
CORPONARI&O, and ICFES (pam. 4.6).
(b) Conditions of Disbursements: (i) Only expenditures made
under DNP and Bank-approved Annual Investment Plans for
the NRMP would be eligible for funding from the loan
(pam. 4.6); and (ii) expenditures eligible for retroactive
financing would include: (1) expenditures by the Coordinating
Unit for which detailed work programs and budgets had been
approved by the Bank; and (2) expenditures by implementig
agencies, which are based on framework agreements (or letters
of intent for private sector agencies) and annual cofinancing
contracts that had been approved by the Bank (pam. 3.32).
(c)   Other Agreements and Assurances: (i) the Government
would not, without reaching agreement with the Bank,
undertake any restructuiing of the Coordinating Unit and
NRMP implementing agencies at the national level
(pam. 4.2 (i)); (ii) DNP would present to the Bank the
Coordinating Unit's annual work plans and budgets; if
satisfactory to the Bank, DNP will not change them without
the Bank's consent (para. 4.2 (ii)); (iii) agreement was reached
on the detailed terms of reference for the panel of independent
experts, and assurance was obtained that the four independent
experts, acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed within a
period of three months after the effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan (para. 3.23); (iv) DNP would prepare the study and
recommendations on Colombia's forest sector prior to the mid-
term review (Pam. 3.22); (v) DNP and the implementing



.40 -
agencies would follow the procurement requirements as
outlined in pars. 3.27-3.30; (vi) the audit requirements
described in pam. 3.35 would be followed; (vii) the framework
agreenents with implementing agencies responsible for
environmental management in NRMP areas would contamn
provisions to ensure that these agencies comply with the norms
for environmental licensing in accordance with the existing
laws and regulations (pa. 5.2).
6.2   Recommendation. The proposed NRMP would constitute a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$39.0 million to the Republic of Colombia on the
terms and conditions set out in Sections 1-6 of this report.



- 41 -
COLOMBIA                                  Annex I
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)                   Table 1
PROGRAM COSTS BY YEAR
US. Millions (Including contingencies)
I-rogram Component.,            I  Year I IYear 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 5 1t-S  [ Coga
Poilcy & Strategy Development
- Forest Policy Development      0.49    0.49                       0.98      1.5
- Ecological Zoning              1.30   0.58                        1.86      2.8
- Environmental Monitoring System  0.78    0.66   0.70   0.74  0.77    3.65   5.6
- Titlng indlgenous Resguardos   0.17    0.17   0.06   0.07  0.07    0.54     0.8
- Titilng Black Communities      0.99   0.99                        1.98      3.0
- Analysis of Corporations       0.15   0.32                        0.47      0.7
- Regional Committees            0.32    0.39   0.20   0.21  0.22    1.33     2.0
Subtotal  4.20    3.58   0.97   1.01  1.05   10.80    16.5
Watershed Rehabiltation
- Narihio Watersheds             1.34    1.50   1.99   2.14  2.48    9.46    14.5
- Narilo Fuelwood                0.40    0.34   0.46   0.56  0.55    2.31     3.5
- CaucaNalle-Indlgenous Groups   0.61    1.12   1.20   0.87  0.58    4.37     6.7
- Valle Watersheds               0.20   0.18   0.24   0.15  0.10    0.87      1.3
- Antloquia Watersheds           1.55    1.23   2.12   2.04  1.80    8.73    13.4
subtotal  4.09    4.37   6.01   5.76  5.51   25.74    39.4
National Parks Management
- Existing Nine Parks            1.41    1.51   1.12   1.00  1.03    6.06     9.3
- New Special Management Areas   0.16   0.14   0.27   0.29  0.23    1.08      1.7
* Park Buffer Zones              0.12   0.27   0.33   0.26  0.25    1.23      1.9
- Outreach &Tralning             0.05   0.07   0.08   0.08  0.09    0.36      0.5
Subtotal[  1.73    1.99   1.80   1.62  1.60    8.73  13.4
Education, Tralning, Research, Program
Management
- University Education - ICFES   1.99    1.69   1.62   1.60  1.32    8.21    12.6
- Vocational Training - SENA     0.56    0.50   0.53   0.56  0.55    2.70     4.1
- Forestry Research              1.56    1.23   1.06   0.73  0.81    5.39     8.3
- Coordinating Unit - DNP/UC     0.49   0.49   0.51   0.53  0.55    2.56      3.9
- Project Prep./Eval. Consultants  0.24   0.11   0.33       0.23    0.91      1.4
- Panel of Independent Experts   0.05    0.06   0.06   0.06  0.06    0.29     0.4
Subtotal  4.89    4.07   4.10   3.47  3.53   20.08
ToWPtl   m  Costl 14.91   14.00  12.88  11.87 11.69   65.34    100.0



- 42 -
COLOMBIA                                      Annex 1
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)                       Table 2
LOCAL, FOtREIGN AND CONTINGENCY COSTS
US$ MMilons
1      P~~ase Costs,       96 %of  | 
IfRogramCotnpent               _  Local i oniToa IBiasseCost ! ifogra 
Policy & Strategy Development
- Forest Policy Development           0.22    0.65   0.87        1.7
- Ecological Zoning                   0.95    0.61    1.56       3.1
- Environmental Monitoring System     2.03    0.71    2.74       5.5
- Tiling Indigenous Resguardos        0.28    0.15   0.43        0.9
- Titling Black Communities           1.55    0.00    1.55       3.1
* Analysis of Corporations            0.36    0.00   0.36        0.7
* Regional Committees                 0.91    0.08   0.99        2.0
Subtotall    6.29    2.20   8.50       16.9   13.0
Watershed Rehabilitation
- Narilio Watersheds                  4.80    2.37   7.17       14.3
- Narlho Fuelwood                     1.35    0.3 i   1.70       3.4
- Cauca/alile-lndigenous Groups       2.54    0.75   3.29        6.6
- Valle Watersheds                    0.54    C 12   0.66        1.3
- Antioquia Watersheds                5.82    ,.44   6.26        3.0
Subtotal 1   15.05    4.02   19.07    38.0   29.21
National Parks Management
- Existing Nine Parks                 2.45    2.67   5.12       10.2
- New Special Management Areas        0.61    0.19   0.81        1.6
- Park Buffer Zones                   0.75    0.14   0.89        1.8
* Outreach &Training                  0.22    0.04   0.26        0.5
Subtotal    4.03    3.05   7.08        14.1   10.8  !
Education, Training, Research, Program
Management
* University Education - ICFES        4.03    2.43   6.46       12.9
- Vocational Training - SENA          1.59    0.44   2.02        4.0
- Forestry Research                   3.03    1.14   4.17        8.3
- Coordinating Unit - DNPIUC          1.65    0.23    1.88       3.7
- Project Prep./Eval. Consultants     0.07    0.59   0.65        1.3
- Panel of Independent Experts        0.18    0.23   0.40        0.8
Subtotal    10.53    5.05   15.58     31.0   23.8
Total SessAe Costs    35.91   14.32  50.23     100.0   76.9
Contfingncies: Physkal                 1.72    0.59   2.31         4.6
Price                    11.91    0.90   12.80       25.5
TotaW Pvm Cotsm   49.53   15.81   65.34        130.1   10



- 43 -
COLOMBIA                                                    Annex 1
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEfiENT PROGRAM (iNRMP)                                    Table 3
LOCAL COFWANCING MATRIX
(Expected Averag Cost Sharing In Percent)
Commu- ICofinancing Coord.       Im"plementing Agencies
Iprogram Component:              - nities  IAgencies   Unit            Lsub-contractors)
Policy & Strategy Development
- Forest Policy Development                            100   DNP
- Ecological Zoning                                    100   DNP (Service Agency; IGAC)
- Environmental Monitoring System             20        80   CARs; INDERENA
- Titling Indigenous Resguardos               50        50   INCORA
- Titling Black Communities                            100  INCORA (IGAC; INDERENA;ICAN)
- Analysis of Corporations                             100   DNP
- Regional Committees                                  100   DNP
Watershed Rehabiltation
- Narilo Watersheds                 20        30        50   CORPONARiftO
- Narihlo Fuelwood                  20        30        50   CORPONARiFO
- CaucaNalle-Indigenous Groups      20        30        50   CVC
- Valle Watersheds                  20        30        50   CVC
- Antloquia Watersheds              20        30        50   CORNARE; CORPOURABA
Departmt. of Antioquia (SEAG)
National Parks Management
- Existing Nine Parks                                  100  INDERENA; CVC
- New Special Management Areas                         100  INDERENA
- Park Buffer Zones                                    100  INDERENA 'CARs)
- dutreach &Training                                   100  INDERENA ICARs)
Educatlon, Training, Research, Program
Management
- University Edt.. atlon - ICFES              20        80   ICFES (universities)
-Vocational Training - SENA                   20        80   SENA
- Forestry Research                           20        80   Various *)
- Coordinating Unit - DNP/UC                           100   DNP
- Project Prep./Eval. Consultants                      100   DNP
- Panel of Independent Experts                         100   DNP
Notes:
CAR - regional autonomeus copoPation
) FEDECAFE, ACOfORE. CONIF. Maderwie Cw'rI Ltd., CORPONAR'iO, INDEURENA



- 44 -
COLOMBIA                                             Annex 1
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)                               Table 4
SOURCES OF FUNDS AND FINANCING PLAN
US$ Millions (Including contingencies)
Costs (US$ million)      % of       % of
Source of Funding:                 Local    Foreign     Total     Program   Base Cost
Local Cofinancing Agencies           17.61                 17.61   26.9       35.1
of which: Communities          (5.2)                (5.2)   (8.0)     (6.2)
Central Government a/                 5.24      3.49       8.73   13.4        17.4
IBRD Loan                            26.69     12.31      39.00   59.7        77.6
Total    49.53     15.81      65.34   100.0      130.1
a/ For national parka component, part of which is proposed for ater subntion by Dutch Grant fnaing.
COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
Expenditure Category                                        US$       %of
millons    Total
Investent Costs
-Civil Works                                               4.07        6.2
-Vehicles and Equipment                                    5.00        7.7
-Training                                                  1.37        2.1
-Technical Assistance                                      7.74       11.8
-Labour                                                    7.55       11.6
-Material and Supplies                                     4.36        6.7
Sub-Total Investment Costs                           30.09       46.0
Opratng Costs
-Salaries                                                 12.99       19.9
-Labour                                                    4.53        6.9
-Training                                                  3.69        5.6
-Operations & Maintenance Supplies                         1.52        2.3
-Other supplies                                           12.55       19.2
Sub-Total Operating Costs                            35.26       54.0
Total Costs                                   65.34      100.0



- 45 -
COLOMBIA                                              Annex I
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)                              Table 5
PRICE CONTINGENCY CALCULATION
j   -4nflatlon Index Calculatlon---    Inflation   Ad stit. for inflation_
Base  Calen-  Local   Local  Foreign  Foreign   Exchange   Index   Foregn       Local
dar  Inflation  Costs  Inflation   Costs  Rate               Costs       Costs
Year  Year   Rate  In Col$   Rate   in US$   (Average)             in ColS      n US$
1 [II    (21    (3)     141        151       (61       171        (81
,.                                                       [ _  . |   w t4X61  - [2161
1991   26.82            2.1               631.6
1992  25.10             4.4               735.0
Year 0  1993  24.00   1.00      1.3     1.00      854.0      1.00     1.00       1.00
Year 1  1994  22.00   1.11      1.2     1.01      998.4      1.17     1.18       0.95
Year 2  1995  22.00   1.35      2.4     1.02     1,138.2    1.33      1.36       1.02
Year 3  1996  20.00   1.64      3.2     1.05     1,281.6    1.50      1.58       1.09
Yeor 4  1997   18.00   1.95     3.4     1.09     1,457.2    1.71      1.86       1.14
Year 5  1998   16.00   2.28     3.2     1.12     1,629.0    1.91      2.14       1.19
Year 6  1999   14.00   2.62     3.3     1.18     1,789.0    2.09      2.43       1.25
Source: Exchange rate and Colombian Inflation forecasts from LA3C1 (August 1993).
Columns 2 & 4 are calculated at half the factor for the current year,
and the full factor for the preceding year.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA
*NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)
Summary Terms of Referetce for Major Consultant Services
1.    National Forest Policy
Objective: Consolidate all existing and ongoing studies on forest policies in
Colombia and refine them through further field investigations, consensus
building with the affected populations and institutions, anad further analysis
to: (i) assess fte limitations on forest sector growth and sustainability; and
(ii) recommend policy reforms and actions that could be implemented to
overcome these limitations. The output of the study would consist of a
comprehensive forestry sector report with a policy and action matrix which
would be reviewed jointly by the Government and the Bank by the mie term
evaluation of the NRe. It would provide the analytical basis for a
CONPES draft paper on forest policy reform, including concessions,
harvesting permits and royalties, and the justification for an eventual future
project interention in forest areas of Colombia.
Scope: (a) Generaton of consistent criteria for forest zoning; (b) assm t
of the impact of existing forest policies: (i) management and protection of
forest resources (commercially used natural forests-royalties, concessions
and pernits, forest research and extension; forest plantadons; protective
forests; linkages with forest industry); (ii) effectiveness of the instruments
aplied (egal and regulatory fraework, institutions, financial resources);
(iii) related Government policies (rual development, credit, pricing, agrarian
reform and land markets; infrastructure, miniW and industrial development);
(iv) recent institutional developments in Colombia; (c) assessment of the
impact of land tenure on forest production, conservation and management;
(d) demand and supply of forest products in Colombia; (e) structure of
domestc market for forest products; and (f) Colombia's international trade in
forest products.
lmaplementation: International consultants would be invited to submit
proposals for carrying out the study jointly with DNP staff, INDERENA,
and local agencies and experts. The selected firm, as well as other local
participating entities and individuals, would be contracted by DNP and
supervised by the Coordinating Unit, which will also be responsible for inter-
institutional coordination.
Duration and TIming: 14 months, 1994 and 1995.
Estimate Base Cost: US$0.87 million (excluding taxes)



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
2.    Baseline Study
Objectives: (a) Identfy and analyze, on the basis of existing infbrnation,
the siuaion at the start of the NR    inregard of its activities, areasand
insttutions; and (b) define the elements that would be direcdy or indirectly
affected by the proposed program activities, and establish a series of
indicators for the monitoring and evaluation of the Program's implementation
progress and impact.
Scope: (a) Watershed areas: identification of representative watersheds to
be used for monitoring, existing land-use, land ownership, community
organization, degree of perceived community interest and participation,
definition of monitoring indicators; (b) natural forest areas: biophysical and
social conditions, role of forest administranon, definition of monitoring
indicators; (c) national parks: assessment of institutional capacity, status of
the consolidation of the parks and their potential for future development;
definition of monitoring mdicators; (d) education and training: current status
of the facilities in the participating entities, assessment of the employment of
forest professionals in relation to their educadon and the development of the
forest sector, assessment of the geographical focus of forest education,
collection of existing information on numbers and qualification of forest
professionals, technicians and skilled workers in comparison with the
mpower and skills requirements for implementing the Program, definition
of monitoring indicators.
Implementation: Local consultants to be contracted by DNP and supervised
by the Coordination Unit.
Duration and Timing: 4 months, 1994
Estimated Base Cost: US$0.15 million (excluding taxes)
3.    NRMP Monitoring System
Objectives: Based on the results of the Baseline Study (Section 2 above) to:
(a) deign and install a computerized databe system for the monitoring of
physical and financial indicators of NRMP implementation progress; and
(b) train staff of DNP, the Coordinating Unit and relevant implementing
agencies in the use of the new system.
Implementation: Local consultants to be contracted by DNP and supervised
by the Coordination Unit.
Duration and lTiIng: 5 months, 1994
Estimated Base Cost: US$0.05 million (excluding taxes)



- 48 -
ANNEC 2
4.    Institutional Analysis of Regional Autonomous Corporations
Objectives: (a) Carry out an institutional analysis of the five regional
autonomous corporations that are expected to become responsible for natual
resource management in the Choc6 Region under the proposed new
Environmental Law (CORPONARINO, CRC, CVC, CODECHOCO, and
CORPOURABA); (b) prepare proposals and dated action plans for the
reorientation and restructuring of these corporations to improve their capacity
and efficiency for the management of the environment and natural resources;
and (c) provide technical assistance to the corporations to initiate the
implementation of the action plans.
Scope: (a) Assessment of existing capacity (functional, physical and
financial) to manage natural resources; (b) projection of future requirements,
e.g., under the proposed new Environmental Law; (c) assessment of current
eficiency and constraints; (d) projection of income and expenditures for the
short and medium term; (e) recommendation for the principal lines of future
activities of the corporations, on the basis of the analysis and the
environmental realities in their jurisdiction; (f) design of environmental
monitoring systems; (g) specification of future requirements of intemal
reorganization, infrstructure investnents, stafflng, training, financial
resources to enable them to exercise their future activities; (h) design of a
five-year program of adjustnents; (i) design of indicators for monitoring the
performance and for self-evaluation of the corporations; (j) drfting of an
operations manual; and (k) provision of assistance to DNP in the
identification and prepaation of a follow-on project.
Implementation:      Local consultants to be contracted by DNP and
supenrised by the Coordination Unit and a steering committee composed of
two representatives from the respective corporations, two representatives
from DNP, and, when operational, an official from the new Environment
Ministry.
Duration and Timing: about 15 months, 1994 and 1995
Estimated Base Cost:. US$0.36 million (excluding taxes)
5.    Mid-Term Review
Objectives: (a) Evaluate progress made in implementing all NRMP
components; (b) assess the initial impact using the evaluation system
developed under the Baseline Study; (c) develop recommendations for desip
changes, if needed, for the second half of the NRMP implementation period;
and (d) specifically review the recommendations for adjustments of the fores
policy and for the identification of a foUow-up opertc. Based on the



- 49 -
ANNE 2
findings of the review, adjustments to the projea desig would be introduced
by the end of 1996.
Scope: Review of the achievement of NRM  tagets for all activities,
ind   Pogrm  ant
nimplementation: Consultants, independent from the Government, recruited
intrnationally by DNP and supervised by the Coordination Unit. The
consultants would also liaise with the Panel of  to     Expts
(Sect:on 5 below) and other local moitonng mecnisms, such as the
Regional Commitees.
Duratiou and limng: about 4 months, 1996
Estimated Base Cost: US$0.20 million (excluding taxes)
S.   Panel of Independent Experts
Objectives: (a) Annual revie  of the focus and implementaon progress of
the NRMP; (b) recommend adjustments in the substance and progress of the
NRNP; (c) advise on conflicts and queries that may arise; and (d) contribute
to efficient donor coordination.
Scope: The entire spectrum of NRMP activides, with particular focus on
environmental impact.
Implementation: Team of four high-level consultants, contracted
individually or as a firm by DNP and supervised by the Coordinating Unit.
The e se of the team should cover te folowing areas: (i) fors policy
and management, agricultral and environmental economics including
environmental assessment; (i) ecology and biodivsity, forest eoqsym
management, protected areas, and environmental monitoring (2 exprts); and
(iii) rural sociology/anthropology with expeience in community developraent
and organization. The panel members would have access to NRMP progress
reports and all other relevant infmtbaion, and to implementing agencies and
affected communities arid other groups. The panel will meet in about June of
every year in Colombia for around three we, when they will mnteact with
the regular Bank superion misson. Their annual report will be sent
simultaneously to DNP and the Bunk, and also be made avilable by the UC
to the implementing agencies. The panel members would also be involved in
the Mid-Term Review and the End-Evaluation of the Progam.
Duration and Tlming: intermittently, about 4 man-months per year 1994-98
slitmated Base Cost US$0.25 nillion (excluding tams)



- so -
COLOMBIA                                            Annex 3
NATURAL RESOURE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM INRMP)
KEY INDICATORS
|Target
IDate
Targets for the Completion of Policy and Strategy Development Actvies
Forest Policy Work
Data Collection Completed                                            Jun-94
Final Report with Analysis and Recommendations Available             Mar-95
Ecological Zoning
Base Maps Avaliable                                                  Jun-94
Thematic Maps Available                                               Dec-94
Information Gathering Completed                                      Mar-95
Information System and Analyses Available                             Dec-95
InstitutonalAnalyss Completed for 5 CA Rs                                  Sep-95
Monitoring, Evaluation and Project Preparation Activities
Baseline Study Completed                                             Sep-94
Feasibility Study for Future Investnent Operation In the Chocd Completed  Mar-96
Mid-Term Review/Evaluation
Draft Final Report and Recommendations Available                Jun-96
Agreements Reached on Necessary Adjustments                      Dec-96
2   Major Physical Trget for NRMP Projects Implementotion
Watershed Protection/Rehabilitaton
Micro-Watersheds Treated/Rehabilitated:                60,000 ha by  Jun-96
120,000 ha by   Dec-98
Fuelwood Plantations Established:                      12,500 ha by  Jun-96
24,800 ha by   Dec-98
National Parks Managemnent
Management Plans Completed                            for 6 parks by   Dec-94
Protective Infrastructure Established                 for 6 parks by   Dec-95
Options and Recommendations for Long-Term Funding
of the National Parks System (to be done by INDERENA)             Mar-96
Feasibility Study for the Creation of Additional
Special Management Areas Completed                                Mar-96
University Education Monitoring Indicators:
Active sub-contracts by ICFES with universities/forestry schools: seven per year
Incremental annual output of technicians                  1994-96:    70
due to NRMP support:                                     1997-97:    10
Construction and Equipment Progress:
Forestry School Piedras Blancas: teacher housing    completed by    1996
addit. dassrooms        completed by    1996
Univ. of Medellin: library                          completed by    1995
Univ. Garcia Rovira: laboratories, library          complewd by    1995
Forestry College Caldas: wokshop, library           completed by    1995
Univ. of Tolima: laboratory                         completed by    1995
CESMAG: laboratory, storage, micro sawmill           completed by    1996



- Si -
COLOMBIA                                             Annex 3
NATURAL RESOURE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)
KEY INDICATORS
X  Target
Vocational Training Monitoring Indicators:
Number of courses for forest workers by year (to be determined)
Yearly percentage of (i) forest enterprises in the Choc6; and U;) forest workers in
the Choc6 that have gone through NRMP sponsored vocational training courses
Forestry Research Monitoring Indicators
Yely number of active cofinancing contracts with insiutions participating in
the NRMP supported forest/environmental research programs:          9 per year
Yearly research reports produced:                                     9 per year
Program Mawaement Monitoring Indicatos
Staff/Consultants Fill Ratio In the Entire Coordinating Unit  each year by 6/1 & 12/1
3   Admistradve Matters and Reporing
Annual Plans of Operatlons for Coordinatng Unit Submitted      each year by   30-Sep
Annual Investment Plan for NAMP Operaions Submitted            each year by  31-May
Semi-Annual Progress Reportis Submitted                       each year by 1/31& 7/31
Annual Audit of NRMP Accounts Submitted                        each year by   30-Jun
Assessment of Procurement Procedures (Not Sublect to Prior  every six months after
Review) Submitted to the Bank:                        qualifying event



ANNEX 4
Table 1
COLOMBIA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Recruitnent   Agen-  Calendar   Bass    Para-
Inter-  Nato-   cy    Year of    Cost   graph
nat.   nal            Program  US. million In SAR
1.0     DNP Managed Consultants
1.1 Forest Sector Review               XX                     94-95        0.87   3.4
(also involving INDERENA)
1.2 Choco Ecological Zoning            XX            DNP    94-95          1.56   3.6
(involving IGAC)                            (Managmt Agency)
1.3 Titling Black Communities                 XX   INCORA   94-95          1.55   3.9
(also Involving INDERENA, IGAC, ICAN)
1.4 Insdtutional Analysis of CARs             XX    CARs    94-95         0.36  3.11
1.5 Baseline Study                            XX               94         0.15 3.22 (i
1.6 Design NRMP Monitoring System             XX               94         0.05 3.22 (ii)
1.7 Future Natural Resource Program           XX               96         0.15 3.22 (iii)
1.8 Project Preparation Assistance            XX              94-96        0.05 3.22 (iv)
1.9 NRMP Mid-Termn Review              XX                      96         0.20 3.22 (v)
1.10 NRMP End-Evaluation                       XX              98-99        0.20 3.22 (vi)
1.11 Panel of Independent Experts        X      X              94-98        0.25  3.23
2.0    INDERENA Managed Consultants
2.1 Long-term Funding of Parks 3ystem         XX               96          0.03  3.15
(included under National Parks Component)



- S3 -                            ANNEX 4
Table 1
|Agen-  Calendar    Base       Para-
cY     Year of    Cost    gaph
I   Program 1US$ milior In SAR
3.0     DNP MAaed Fied Programs
3.1 Techn. Supervision Environm Monitoring System     CARs    94-98         .......  3.7
(administratvely under CARs/iNDERENA)            INDERENA
(technically under Coordinating Unit)
3.2 Regional Committees                                        94-98        0.99  3.1-
4.0     Framework Agreements and Annual Cofinancing Contracts
4.1 ritling/Demarcation Indigenous Resguardos        INCORA   94-98         0.43   3.8
(also involving Ministerio de Gobiemo)
4.2 Environmental Monitoring System               Corponariflo  94-98       1.08   3.7
Codechoc6               0.84
INDERENA                0.82
4.3 Watershed Projects                             Corponarifto  94-98      7.17  3.13
CVC    94-98         5.66  3.13
Dept. of Antioquia (SEAG) 94-98 }}}  6.25  3.13
CORNARE 94-98 }
CORPOURABA 94-98 }
4.4 National Parks and Buffer Zones                INDERENA   94-98         6.80  3.15
CVC                  0.28
4.5 University Education/Research                     ICFES    94-98        6.46  3.18
4.6 Vocational Training                               SENA    94-98         2.03  3.19
4.7 Forestry Research                              Corponarifho  94-98      0.73  3.20
INDERENA                0.64
5.0     Letters of Itntot and Annual Cofinancing Contracts
5.1 Forestry Research                                Fedecafe  94-98        1.53  3.20
CONIF                0.77
ACOFORE                 0.18
Madererfa Central             0.32



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA                                         Table 2
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMPJ
BANK SUPERMSON PLAN
1.0      Regular Supervision Missions by Bank Headquarters Staff:
1.1 Each June (3 weeks) to:
Evaluate physical progress in implementation and the accounts of previous fiscal year.
Assess current status and supervise ongoing activities.
Appraise next year's draft Investment program (Operational Plan).
Mission composition: environmentalist, financial analyst specialist(s) as required
(parks specialist, sociologist, forester, economist,, agriculturalist, instutions expert) and
Resident Mission staff.
1.2 Each November (3 weeks) to:
Assess current status, supervise ongoing actvities, review drafts of cofinancing
contracts for following year, and focus on in-depth technical reviews and field visits
of specific projects or actvities.
Mission composition: environmentalist, specialists as required for the in-depth
technical reviews, and Resident Mission staff.
2.0     Follow-up by Resident Mission Staff
2.1 Each March and September (2 weeks) for:
Identifying current Issues and take Tnitial steps to resolve them (to the extent possible); and
Informing Bank task manager at Headquarters if required.
3.0     Special Missions
3.1 January 1994
Review of status of fulfillment of loan effectiveness conditions.
Supervision of retroactively financed NRMP activities, if any.
Review of 1994 Investment Program, framework agreements and draft cofinancing contracts
Appraisal of Proposed Integrated Forest Management Project in Uraba
Mission composition: assigned task manager/environmentalist, financial analyst,
agricultural economist or other specialist(s) if required, and Resident Mission staff.
3.2 February/March 1994:
Participation in PAFC Conference (organized by FAO).
Organization and Implementation of NRMP Launch Workshop with all implementing
agencies.
Duration of Mission: about 4 weeks
Mission Composition: task manager/environmentalist, financial analyst, disbursement
officer, zoning specialist, forest economist, sociologist, legal officer (if required), and
Resident Mission staff.



- 5S -                         ANNEX 4
Table 2
3.3 June/July 1996:
Mid-Term Evaluation
Duraion: about 4 weeks
Mission,Composition. Simiar to Launch Workshop
3.4 February/March 1999:
End-Evaluation
Duration: about 4 weeks
Mission Composition: task manager/environmentalist, financial analyst, sociologist



COLOMBIA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)
PROGRAM MRANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION WITHIN DNP
DNP lD  LJs*s:r   DNP Subdiroctor                                      E0n       _lms    Qee,0fae U? (
Sectetarba                      DAP Cowv*wtIg                            Otfic, f   Ge-   No. of Positionss                            ve
Agt. Developm. Unit (UDAl            Committee for                           neral Coordiator     All    NRMP                    cmhee for
E"vir. Pofcy DEisson (DEPAC           Em.                                  Ge       inator          1       0                      the Nata
Other DNP Une Units                                                     __________              1       O
SAF         No. of Positions   11       SAT           No. of Positions           SAI          No. of Positions     Nsional       . of Positions
AN I NRMP                                 All NRMP                               Al   I NRMP       6Env Lonll   NRMP
Secrtaty1                                 1            S     rt   e             I C   S0            Furod
1                                ~~~~~4 Specialist                        5       OJ______
nglneer  I                         6              -oloNogMI.M             4               = tdministrator    1    0
2                    3              secretary2                        Oj
UC: Unidad Coerdare (Coordhwi Undtl
SAF: S8eetwb Am    enwas  Ouvdd&ani Mfaml
Pefin hmded under he Wadd Benk euppaertd NI@dP                              SAT: &ewetufo AeunatT de ITechiIdl Mttem
Ithr pela. we fuded under the US auppert EinwiamnonPtrowra                   $A: Secrted Aunto Inatkuoondle Ihituanel Mttemu
ID.



COLOMBIA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANACErNr PROGRAM (Mn
IMALEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1994             less              1996              1997             1o99              190     _
10    Nmne                                 Duraton   1 102 1    1040        203 4           02    304-01  22 0301a4   CLI 021031                 0 I 20314
I    to"n Effec*lvmm                         11.2w
2        Loan SignIng                          11w
3        Managt Serv Agenov Selected            3w
4        fir_-Yea CoOn Contrct Signed           Sw
6        Loan Effeoveness Date                0.2w
6    Foeaa P.5.yDewipa                         72w      -_
7        Tems of Roference                      8w
a        Selecodon ContractorlSpclaliete        Sw
a        Study Preparon                        3Lw 
10       Draft Reiew                           12w
11       Final Report                           Sw
12   &oo      Z8                             1122w                 on 
13       Propoesa to Menagmt. Agency            3w  3
14       Recaitmnett of Specialist Team       104w
15       Integrated Asaesernent 1:500.000      28w
18        Base Cartoraphy 1:200,000            26w
17       GIS Development                       78w                                       U
is   &nknwwewsAIMcds*001 p'*.t                248w    VM            1
19       Rendmen of Stafi                       Sw
20       Prouremwnt of EquIpment                10w
21       Etemal Techdical Aessetance             SW
22       Extemat Te    a Aesdtence               2w         l
23       Exteral TechIl Aesetence               3w
24       Extema Techrica Aeeistence             4w
2S       Extern  Techila Aedistnce               2w
26       Extemal Technical Assistance           3w                                                                                                                c-n
27       Operation of 4 Monitodng UnIte       241 w                                                                                                             4- _-s
28   lan lt                                   249v    VI             p
Peg. 1



COLUM
NATURJL RSOURCE MANAGWM T PROGRAM ORM
V_IWLDWTA2ON SCHEDULE
1994             t 1995    1      t99t             tg91t997         i1999
ID   Name                                 Duradon  01 0 02 I a3  04  01 1 021 03  04  01  0 02  0-31 04 01 0 021 031 04 01 02  03  04 0112 (03 104
29       Indigenous Resguardos               249w                                                poll
30        Slack Communities                   93w
31   An&4vk of C op_e                         92w    _        _
32       Tems of Refrence                      4w
33       Slection Contractor                   Sw
34       Studv Preporaton                     50w
35       Draft Reww                            6w
36       Fnsl Report                           4w
37   RsgJonaCo to                          260.2m_
38       hrst-Year Arrangements Prepared       Sw
39       Provision of Support                249w
40   WSterweRAhahIdon                      260.2w
41       First-Year Cofin Contracts Prepared   8w
42       Imple9mntation
43   N.danal P&rk mamugerwut                 260w -
44       FIfst Year Cfin Contracts Peared      SW                                                                                                           t
45       Plot Phaes Implementdo35W
46       Pilot Phase Results Reviw             3w
47       Main Implementation Period          208w
48   UthwaA y EdA*hdn - ICFES              260.2w
49       First-Yeat Cofin Contracts Prepared  - w
so       Implementation                      249w
51   VoctonaI Trhngn - SENA                260.2w
52       First-Year Cofin Contract Prepared    8w
53       Implementation                      249w
54   famatij'Reewh                         260.2w                                      _ _
55       First-Y6ea Coffn Contracts Prepared   8w l                                                                                                           . v
56       Implemnentaton                      249w
Page 2



COLOMIbA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGENVNrPRDOGRW AMRMP
NATMffTINSCREU
1994  isSS       lme             1997            ~~~~1098          1999
ID   Name                                Duration  0112 103104  0        203 0       11104 02 103 04- 01 102103  Q4 0102 0G3104   19 0210310
67  APrgmn C eo'r Ja  Un i                 260.2w
58       Staff Selection and Recruitment      12w
59       Operadon of Uni                    249ti
60       Office RohabtaSon8wIE
S1       Equipment Ptocurernnt (1st year)    40w
62       Draft AdnUal IVwertment Plan          Ot
63       Draft Annual Investmnt Plan           Od
64       Draft Annual Invaetnwnt Plan          Od
6B       Draft Annua Invesumnnt Plan           Od
66   NRMfPAkvdnftwhb Swat.  otvepi          362w
67       Team of Reforene                     4w
_S       Selecdon Contractor                   4w
69       Study Proparadon                     Sw
70       Review of Rtco4mmenadons              SW
71       Staff Trainin                         8w
72   P&ndojf`E*f                            269w_.
73       Temoms of Reteronce & Recruitment    1Sw
74       Yoer l Review                         aw
75       Yew 2 Review                          3w
76       Mid-Term Re%4w Pticipation             w
77       Year 4 Redow                         3w
78       Yea r ReWlow                         3w                                                                            3
79       End-Evaluation Petdlpotlon             w
80   Ba _S 3. S_udy
81       Totmn of Reference                     w
82       Selection Conractor                   ow                                                                                                            X
83       Stu  PrepatWon                        Sw
84       Draft Rewow                            w
Page 3



COlOMBIA
NATURAL DSURCE MAKWAGEMNT PROGRAM MNMI
I11LUdENTATION SCHEDULOE
1994             1096             100              10997            190e             1080
ID    Name                                Duation  O1 |020 3 104    021 31Q4   1 10213  0411 20304 1    203Q0401 |02103 14
8S       findl Repot                            4w           If
88   PY6paraEa FOatetvOn Progrm                28w                                         M     W
87       Tems of Reterence                      4w
88       selection Conrunt.                     4w
8S       Study Prepaton                        1ow                                            MM
00   T/MPA0tlm Ev*vabd.a                      33w
et       Term of Reference                      4w
92       Selecden Coiiultant.                   SW
.  -u3 dy Preparation                           SW
04       Re&%w of R_eaOMANdIon                  Sw
06       Fn_  -epor                             4w
5"                                           20.4w                                                                                       mop
07       Tenam ef Reference                     4w
98       Slecdon Coneuktnte                   4.4w
S9       Project Conpletion Report             0w
100   Bank -qaon*Iec              -                  S       6_                                                                                              lJ 9271.6W
1O1       Fit Supnd    (Loan Eflethme)        2.6w 3                                                                                                         o
102        aunch Woihop                         4w
103       MIYea Koo"n                            w         3
104         -Yoa melon                          Sw                          i
105       Md-t Evaluatin                        4w                                                                .
too       kdYear kiaslon                        3w
107       Mid-Year M"Won                        Sw                                                                             n
108       Fdl MM"n                              3w                3
109      FPa UBson                              3w                                 3
110       Fag msion                             3w.
11 Ftil Medon                                  3w   .3
112       Project Completon M iaon              2w                                                                                          l.  
Project: Colombba NRhP            Cridod                       Ptaaooa                     Sammay_
Date: 1111103                     Nonodtef _        l          tdltone  *                  Rolled Up C
Paeo 4



-61-                      ANNEX S
COAMBIA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Seleted Dments and Data Available In the Project NIle
A.   Documents Relating to the Project
1.    Repiiblica de Colombia, Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n: Una
Polftica Ambiental pam Colombia. Documento CONPES 2544-DEPAC.
Santa F6 de BogotA, Agosto 1 de 1991.
2.    FAO Investment Centre, FAO/World Bank Cooprative Programme:
Colombia: Forestry and Environmental Potcon Project. Project
Peparation Report, No. 118/91 CP-COL 30, 7 October 1991, 2 Volumes.
3.    Repdblica de Colombia, Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n: Plan
de Accidn Forestal pam Colombia 1989-1992, Febrero de 1992.
4.   Idem: Plan de Acci6n Forestal pam Colombia 1989-1992.
Programas y Proyectos. Santaf6 de BogotA, Marzo de 1992.
5.   Presidencia de la Repdblica, Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n:
Plan Pacifico. Una Nueva Estrategia de Desarrollo Sostenible pama la Costa
Pacifica Colombiana. No. DNP-2589 DEPAC-UDS-UDU-UIDT-UINF,
Santaf6 de BogotA, Marzo 30 de 1992.
6.    Repdblica de Colombia, Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n:
Autorizaci6n al Gobiemno Nacional para la Contratacion de Cr6ditos Externos
con la Banca Multlatal Desunados al Progama Ambiental y de Manejo de
Recursos Naturales. Documento CONPES 2660-DNP-UDA-DEPAC-
INNDERENA, Santaf6 de BogotA, 22 de junio de 1993.
7.    Convenio Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Cauca (CVC) - Centro
de Cooperci6n al Indfgena (CECOIN): Plan de Desarrollo pam las
Comunidades Indfgenas de la Costa Pacffica. Diagn6stico PLADEICOP,
Bogota, 1988.
B.   Working Documents
8.    Marfa Teresa Motta Telo: Rdgimen de Aprovechamiento del Bosque
Nahtual y Sistema de Tasas Forestales. Informe Final (Documento
Preliminar), Contrato de Consultoria PNUD-DNP, SantafM de BogotA D.C.,
Octubre de 1992.



-62-                      ANNEXS
9.    Roque Rold;n Ortega: Infore final del tabojo realizado para el
Banco, con el fin de evaluar las posibilidades y dificulds de asegurar la
patcipaci6n de las comunidades indfgenas y negas en la ejecuci6n de los
proyectos de medio ambiente en el Pacifico, 10 de agosto de 1993.
10.  Idem: Annexes: (i) Anexo No. 1: Informe sobre Participaci6n
Indfgena en Proyectos de Medio Ambiente en la Costa Pacfflca (Resdmen);
(ii) Anexo No. 2: Relaci6n de Problemas de la Comunidades Indfgenas del
Litomal Pacffico; (iii) Anexo No. 3: Perfiles de Proyectos.
11. German I. Andrade y Jaime Jaramillo: Estado de los Valores
Naturales e Identficacidn de Conflictos en los Parques Nacionales del
Pacffico Colombiano. Santafe de Bogota, Marzo de 1993.
12.   Niels Halbertsma: Report of a Mission to Colombia
March/April 1993. The Netherlands, May 20, 1993.
13.   Detailed Project Cost Tables Using PC-COSTAB Program.



iZr        COLOMBIA                                                                                                  7   '-          OMRLUAN BEE
NATURAL RESOURCE                                                                                            - -r5 ^
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)                                                         / -                   r                       EJICA_AGUA
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES                                                                                                           -DENEZUELA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C_    _%    </ . ( F:IRUv
-  A(             IABEA
ECUADO'         4           A
B R A D IL 
CA                                                                              PERU / ,-  1
fe(~~~~~cS /7t    ,,zt i                                                                       /aAD 
.c _i                                          A.BOLIVIA
CHIUEkfN
Fodradeim lARD 24889       r_N?         \OAkGENTIl:'  l
?A NAMA - -r- -  - -                                                       $                                                                          _          _              2.
V   E  N    E   Z    U   E  L   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~c -.dyo  A-d   . (r
SfNTAND , Mix                 ,  ARA'/CA
TPJ                                  A  UUAr                      01t $t;     4r
r CASAAA E                                                            P. .          .
VICH/ADAA 
NATWNAI PARKS SUPPORTED SY NRMP   >ff_, . ~    >>.,,>~q,                                                                  A
-'~ ~~~~~ '/1     A          Z   O NEIEG .,)BRCAZR 
ii                        /-                                                                                      Purto
FARALLONY E N f/                                                            T    A A>
MO GORGONA
/CA$<                \U9fiAW 4-I
? A-G  A4GA       CROr                                                           Sos6deGuurr                            GUA INIA
20        1                                    <C                             (St/~~~~~~  GA V/A RE
t   NA//NO              N C AITA  /    uEnc                                                              6rst+, 
Xs    EPATMNT APIA x                                                                                               / )       --       - ---~
omtr   A              -A-e'-fSI  ~RZ<AZ~f\%AVAUPES
CHTOCO RIOGEOGRAPHIC REGION                                                p    E     R    U
NATIONAL PARKS SUPPORTED BY NEMP
OTHER NATIONAL PARES                                                    .                    ;
MOSTLY FORESTED AREAS*tLa                                            ~         A        AZ          N
MOSTLY NATURALLY UNFORESTED AREAS                                                                                                       B   R   A      ZfIL
MOSTLY DEFORESTED AREAS                                           ta~-                                                        --
MAIN RIVERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL 
  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS/
NATURAL REOION BOUNDARIESE                                                            R    U
-    -DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 
MllE'.       < e1     1100      S2      30 0ry
_ -0769                                                                  724-                   J                                                              LA- 7' (.ED         j72



IBRD 248S9
78-                                  76 
PANAMA                              4                                                  'SUCRE  .
K VENEZUlA                I        /                                                   j
*ilSAWN      ?                 Yg   %  z   X,CORDOVA
COLOMBIA                               I Y                                                I 3 : I;kFL W;  X   BOLIVAR
COLOMBIA      .                   7                                                                   i
PA  ILLO
(BRAZIL                 Ai'oS~'s     
ECUADOR,'
COLOMBIA                           Roui
NATURAL RESOURCE                                                             ANTIOQUIA
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (NRMP)
PACIFIC COAST AREA AND WESTERN HIGHLANDS
NRMP WATERSHED PROTECTION AREAS     It A         LAS ORUIDEAS I
NATIONAL PARKS (SUPPORTED BY NRMP) o
OTHER NATIONAL PARKS
L!  tENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AREAS                                           COR IARE
CC)  EXISTING INDIGENOUS RESGUARDOS
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
o    SELECTED CMES
o    FOREST DISTRICT OFFICES                        TAIAM
REGIONAL AUTONOMOUS CORPORATION                TATAMA 6-
BOUNDARIES                                                             LOS
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                ,AJEVADOS ,  
RIVERS                                                                                2  SANTAFE
-   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                 '                               DE BOGOTA
100 ~     ~        Ot I -IS KICAR
O       50     lOO                                           VPALLAi
4- o                         I 00 MILES        uar                        TOLIMA   .
guennventtaire           'v                    j  
C.V.C.  ,-  LAS           /        A P
\' HERMOSAS    ,
Bank &aqi The dmlnaf Is used and ho bus,darg. shov, an  FARAL.ONES
COCo*smP                                         DE  LI                                    '    SUMAPAZ
iS he ~~OoI5i5tU5 ~~$by@f 0*57        _NEVADO 
yefeevtenscocirvcr  d       O         9    pd       .;D~x\EL HUILA r   
GORGONA         6         \\ ' 
,@  (2; ,/ H~~~~~~HtIJILA 
MUNCHI;UE,
SANQUIANGA(  S
fPfi'ACHOS
GI;\.A So                C.R.C. 4!                         ,
PRV JI F                                                                      , TINIGUA
CAUCA
CORPONARI. 
0~~~~0tr
Tumoco ttt .^o 
s 9KS A X <;~~~~~~UACHAROS
ECA R    INAK                                               A
ECUAD O R Z   78-  12W(                            tb. ~                                          74-
NOVEMSER 199



