Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23418
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36920; TF-20818)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$39.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
(Loan No. 3692-CO)
December 19, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Completion)
Currency Unit = Peso (C$)
C$= US$
US$ I = C$
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAR              Autonomous Regional Corporation (Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CC               Community Council (Consejo Comunitario)
CONPES          National Council for Economic and Social Policy (Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social)
CR               Regional Committee (Comite Regional)
CT               Technical Committee (Comisi6n Tecnica)
CVC              Corporaci6n del Valle del Cauca
DNP              National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeacion)
FAO-CP           Food & Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
FEPS             Final Executive Project Swnmary
GEF              Global Environment Facility
GIS              Geographic Information System
ICFES           Institute for Higher Education (Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior)
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IEPS            Initial Executive Project Summary
IGAC            Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi
INCORA           Agrarian Reform Institute (Instituto Colombiano de Reforma Agraria)
INDERENA        National Renewable Resources Institute (Instituto Nacional de los Recursos Naturales Renovables
y del Ambiente)
LA               Loan Agreement
LRA             Agrarian Reform Law (Ley de Reforma Agraria)
MMA             Ministry of the Environment (Ministerio del Medio Ambiente)
MTR              Mid-term Review
NGO              Non-governmental Organization
NRMP             Natural Resource Management Program
PAFC             Tropical Forestry Action Plan for Colombia (Plan de Acci6n Forestal de Colombia)
PNDF            National Forestry Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Forestal)
POT              Land Use Plan (Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial)
RPF              Protected Forest Reserve (Reserva Protegida Forestal
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SENA            National Training Service (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
SINA            National Environment System (Sistema NAacional Ambiental)
SPNN            National Parks System (Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales)
TFAP             Tropical Forestry Action Plan
TS              Technical Secretariat
UAE              Special Administrative Unit (Unidad Administrativa Especial)
UC               Coordinatiing Unit (Unidad Coordinadora)
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:     John Redwood
Sector Leader:      Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader:        Steven Oliver



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL No. 36920; TF No. 20818)
COLOMBIA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                20
6. Sustainability                                                                    22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     22
S. Lessons Leamed                                                                   26
9. Partner Comments                                                                  27
10. Additional Information                                                          27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                36
Annex S. Summary of the Borrower's Report                                            37






| Project ID: P006868                                      Project Name: NATURAL RESOURCE MAN
Team Leader: Steven William Oliver                        TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type. Core ICR                                        Report Date. Januiary 7, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: NATURAL RESOURCE MAN                           LIC/TFNuniber: CPL-36920; TF-20818
Country/Department. COLOMBIA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actial
PCD.   01/23/91                                Effective.  11/09/94          11/09/94
Appraisal:  07/01/93                                  MTR: 06/30/96              01/15/97
Approval:  12/23/93                                Closing:  12/31/99            03/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit/The Ministry of the Environment
Other Partners:  The Autonomous Regional Corporations, the National Renewable Resources
Institute, the Institute for Higher Education, the National Training Service, and
the Agrarian Reform Institute
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:      Olivier Lafourcade                        Yoshiaki Abe (Department Director)
Sector Manager:       John Redwood                              Nicholas Krafft (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:   Steven Oliver
ICR Primary Author:   Steven William
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likelv, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The overall objective of the Natural Resource Management Program, as defined in the
Loan Agreement (LA) and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was to develop policies and
mechanisms to contribute to the arrest, over the long term, of the degradation of natural
renewable resources. The program was intended to be the first phase of a long-term set of
initiatives, and had two specific subsidiary objectives: (a) to help conserve the primary moist
forest and its bio-diversity in the Choc6 Region on the Pacific coast; and (b) to assist in halting
and reversing forest conversion and degradation in the Western and Central Cordilleras.
3.1.2  The overall objective was clear. It was intended to provide certain necessary
conditions - the policies and mechanisms - for the achievement of a long-term goal, that of
halting the degradation of natural resources in Colombia. The subsidiary objectives were
also clear (although the second of them, concerning the Cordilleras, would probably have been
better expressed as "halting and reversing forestry conversion and the degradation of natural
resources ..."). The objectives were also realistic, because there was the implicit acceptance
that the output and products of the program were necessary but not sufficient conditions for the
achievement of the ultimate goals (hence the use of qualifying expressions in the definition of
the program's objectives - "to contribute to", "to help", and "to assist"). It should be
stressed that the achievement of the objectives of the program was most emphatically not to be
measured by the achievement (or otherwise) of the eventual goals. The objectives were (and
remain) important for Colombia and for its rural sector. The preparation and appraisal of the
program predate the Bank's formal introduction of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
procedures.
3.1.3  The term "natural renewable resources" should be used with care, and in this case it
should be qualified. It is not clear in the program's description precisely what constitute
renewable natural resources. The emphasis in the program description is placed on forests,
water and soil. Once destroyed, tropical forests can be recuperated in a time-frame measured
in decades and centuries. However, a major part of the purpose of Component B was to
reduce soil erosion, and soils are not, in any useful sense, a "renewable" natural resource.
Once lost, soils are renewed - if at all - only over a geological time-frame.
3.1.4  The program was very complex (in the LA, the Description of the Project extends to
ten pages). It had four components and twenty-two sub-components; as designed, it had
eighteen implementing agencies, but by 1998 this had grown to twenty-six. This inevitably
made significant demands on the coordinating unit and the implementing agencies. The
coordinating unit faced a major task in administrative activity, the coordination of program
actions and the definition of priorities. Some of the implementing agencies were not parts of
the National Environment System (Sistema Nacional Ambiental - SINA), and in the latter
phase of the program, when serious budgetary restrictions began to be felt, the transfer of
funds to these bodies by the Ministry of the Environment (Ministerio del Medio Ambiente -
MMA) was difficult.
-2-



3.1.5  As recognized in the SAR, the program was subject to broad areas of risk and
uncertainty, and it was recognized that the creation of safeguards against them had contributed
to the complexity of the operation, particularly in its institutional aspects. The main areas of
risk foreseen were: the fluid institutional structure; the evolving legal framework in areas
affecting the program (i.e., land titling); the decentralization of government; the possible
continuation of unsatisfactory forestry policies; the need for cooperation by populations
affected by the program; and the situation concerning security. In one important respect, the
program was a very risky one; the "unpredictable security situation in Colombia" was
recognized at appraisal as one of the main risks, and it is greatly to the credit of the staff of the
coordinating unit and of the implementing agencies that they were able to carry out their
program-related tasks even as internal security steadily worsened over the life of the program.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  The overall objective of the program, as "reformulated" at the mid-term review (MTR) in January
1997, was to develop the policy, institutional and technical base for sustainable natural resource
management in the context of the decentralized framework for environmental management introduced by
Law 99 in late-1993. Within this broad objective, the program emphasized the forestry sub-sector and had
a regional focus on the Choc6 Region, because of the importance of its primary moist forests, its
biodiversity, and the predominance of ethnic minorities (of indigenous and Afro-Colombian people).
3.2.2  The two specific objectives were maintained throughout the life of the program. They were
endorsed during the MTR, when it was concluded that the program had become even more relevant to the
government's objectives for sustainable development than it had been when originally approved. However,
the passage of Law 99 at the end of 1993, through which the MMA and the SINA were created, had the
effect of altering the relative importance of the objectives of the program. As designed, the program gave
particular emphasis to the physical investments to be made (in Component B) in water-shed protection.
With the passage of Law 99, and without diminishing the importance of water-shed investments, more
emphasis was given to institutional development and to the elaboration of policy that would allow the
implementation of the new and decentralized system of environmental management. It was concluded that
all of the components were relevant to the achievement of the objectives of the program, and no
adjustments were made to the projected costs or to their distribution between or within components.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The SAR contains a confusing mixture of terms when referring to the program and its
subsidiary parts. In this ICR, the structure of "program/component/ sub-component/activity"
has been used, and the term "sub-project" has been confined to the term "Part B Sub-project"
as defined in the LA. The program had four components. The estimated cost of each
component included the price and physical contingency provisions.
-3 -



Component A - The Development of National Forest Policy, and of a Natural Resource
Management Strategy for the Choco Region
(US$10.8 million, 16.5 percent of project costs)
The sub-components were:
- the development of national forest policy;
- the ecological zoning of the Choc6 region;
- environmental monitoring;
- demarcation and titling of indigenous reserves;
- land title regularization for Afro-Colombian communities;
- institutional analysis of five Autonomous Regional Corporations (Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional'
- CAR); and
- support for five Regional Committees (Comite Regional - CR)
Component B - Water-shed Protection and Rehabilitation
(US$25.74 million, 39.4 percent of project costs)
The sub-components were:
- micro-catchment area protection; and
- community fuelwood plantations.
Component C - Management of National Parks and Buffer Zones
(US$8.73 million, 13.4 percent of project costs)
The sub-components were:
- the institutional strengthening of the National Park Service (Unidad Administrativa Especial del
Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales ) and the Corporaci6n del Valle del Cauca (CVC);
- training in management of the protected areas of the Choc6 Region;
- the development of park management plans for nine national parks;
- the preparation of management plans for special areas selected for their bio-diversity;
- community conservation and environmental education in park areas and buffer zones;
- the preparation of a strategy and draft Action Plan for long-term flmding of protected areas; and
- the monitoring and evaluation of protected areas.
Component D - Forestry and Environmental Education, Training, Research, Project
Management, and Monitoring & Evaluation
(US$20.06 million, 30.7 percent of project costs)
The sub-components were:
- education and university research;
- vocational training;
- forestry research;
- the project coordinating unit;
- project preparation and evaluation; and
- the establishment of a panel of independent experts.
-4 -



3.3.2  The components were closely related to the achievement of the objectives of the
program, and the sub-components were well within the capacity of the multiple implementing
agencies. The design of the program took into account the experience gained in
Bank-supported projects in the rural sector of Colombia (particularly the Upper Magdalena
Pilot Watershed Management Project [Loan 2069-CO] and several integrated rural
development projects). It also incorporated lessons learned in similar projects Bank-wide,
including those expressed in Forestry Development: A Review of Bank Experience (Report
No. 9524, of 4/22/1991) and The Forest Sector: A World Bank Policy Paper (September
1991).
3.3.3  The program was prepared and became operational during a period of growing
awareness in Colombia of the need to protect natural resources. The Constitution of 1991
explicitly recognized the responsibility of the State in environmental management, and the
development plan for 1990-1994 included the significant strengthening of institutions as well
as the creation of the MMA.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1  The components were maintained throughout the life of the program.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  The preparation of the program and the processing of the loan predated the
introduction by the Bank of the CAS process. Bank strategy at the time was based on the
sound macro-economic framework and the government's objectives for economic growth and
poverty alleviation. Specifically, the program supported efforts to complete fundamental
policy reforms in key areas of the economy needed to achieve sustainable growth and improved
quality of growth, focusing on improving the institutional and regulatory frameworks for
natural resource management and supporting investments in rehabilitation of watersheds and
reforestation of degraded areas.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
4.1.1  The program's overall objective was to create a mechanism (the policy framework and
set of instruments) to be used throughout Colombia to contribute, over the long term, to the
arrest of the degradation of natural renewable resources. The two specific subsidiary
objectives were to apply parts of this mechanism in two geographically-defined areas:
(a) to help conserve the primary moist forest and its bio-diversity (in the Choco Region on the
Pacific coast); and
(b) to assist in halting and reversing forest conversion and degradation (in the Western and
Central Cordilleras).
-5 -



4.1.2  The program's outcome and the degree to which it achieved these three objectives were
all satisfactory. This is particularly true when the situation concerning security in much of the
program's sphere of action is taken into account. There was no order of priority given to the
objectives in the SAR, rather they were seen as being complementary.
4.1.3  The program was implemented against a changing back-drop of strategy, policies and
priorities in the MMA. From its inception in 1993 and its development during 1994 into a
fully functioning entity, the MMA had three changes at ministerial level before 1998 with
consequent changes in priorities. The program provided a basis for continuity in activities,
thereby stabilizing work in the main sub-components. However, the program was designed
before the creation of the SINA and several of its sub-components/activities were not directed
towards the evolving priorities of a changing institutional structure.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  The objectives of the program were concentrated in the categories of sector policies,
physical objectives and institutional development. There were no financial or macro-economic
objectives. The outcome of the program was satisfactory with respect to all three of these
categories of objectives. In certain parts of the program (for example, in the achievement of
the physical objective of community titling for indigenous and Afro-Colombian people) the
outcome was highly satisfactory.
4.2.2  The design of the program was appropriate for the achievement of the objectives, but
the performance indicators for judging the achievement of the objectives were not well
quantified in the SAR (the "key indicators" were limited mainly to target dates for the
completion of program activities and studies). To remedy this, the SAR specified that two
activities would be undertaken at the beginning of the program. First, a base-line study would
be carried out by consultants to assemble and review all existing information related to the
sphere of action of the program; assess the physical, economic, social and institutional
conditions at the start of the program; and define the relevant monitoring and evaluation
indicators. Based on this work, consultants would then design and implement the monitoring
system in the Coordinating Unit and in the implementing agencies to monitor the progress in
the implementation of all program activities and measure the results. However, the base-line
study was initiated only in late-1996.
4.2.3  The sub-components contributed to the achievement of the objectives in varying
degrees. The following table indicates how the sub-components and objectives were linked,
and the degree of success achieved by each sub-component in contributing to the achievement
of the objectives.
-6 -



Objectives
Overall               Specific                        Specific
Develop policies and    Help conserve forest and  Assist in halting and reversing forest
mechanisms to contribute to bio-diversity in the Choco  conversion and degradation in the
the long-term reduction in  Region              Western and Central Cordillera
the degradation of natural
resoutrces
Component A: Development of National Forest
Policy and Natural Resource Management Strategy
for the Choc6 region
Sub-components:
A. I National foTest policy development                 S
A.2 Ecological zoning of Choc6 region                                           HS
A.3 Environmental monitoring                            S
A.4 Demarcation and titling indigenous                                          HS
communities
A.5 Title regularization for Afro-Colombian                                     HS
communities
A.6 Institutional analysis of five CARs                 S
A.7 Support for five Regional Committees
Component B: Watershed Protection and
Rehabilitation
Sub-components:                                                                                               S
B.I Micro-catchment area protection                                                                           S
B.2 Community fuel-wood plantations
Component C: Management of National Parks and
Buffer Zones
Sub-components:
C. I Institutional strengthening of NPS and CVC         S                       S
C.2 Management training for Choc6 protected areas                               S
C.3 Park management plans for nine parks
C.4 Management plans for special areas                                          S
(bio-diversity)                                                                 S
C.5 Education for parks and buffer zones
C.6 Action Plan for long-term funding of protected                              S
areas                                                                           S
C.7 Monitoring & evaluation of protected areas
S
Component D: Forestrv and Environmental
Education; Training; Research; Project Management;
Monitoring and Evaluation
Sub-components:
D. I Education and university research                  S
D.2 Vocational training                                 S
D.3 Forestry research                                   S
D.4 Coordinating unit                                   S                       S                             S
D.5 Project preparation and evaluation                  S
D.6 Panel of independent experts                        U
Component A - The Development of a National Forest Policy and a Natural Resource
Management Strategy for the Choco Region:
4.2.4     The main purposes of this component were to refine Colombia's policy framework for
the forest sector and to address the specific issues facing the environmentally-fragile Choc6
region of the Pacific coast.
-7 -



Sub-component A.1 - The Development of National Forest Policy:
4.2.5  Indiscriminate deforestation was recognized in the SAR to be "one of Colombia's
principal environmental problems". Within the context of the international Tropical Forestry
Action Plan (TFAP) initiative that began in 1985, the government of Colombia prepared its
own action plan (the Plan de Acci6n Forestal para Colombia - PAFC) between 1987-1989,
and its implementation was included in the national Development Plan for 1990-1994. The
Natural Resource Management Program was considered to be an integral part of the PAFC.
4.2.6  This sub-component was intended to "help refine" Colombia's policy framework for
the forest sector. Under the sub-component, all of the studies carried out and in progress
concerning forestry policy in Colombia were to be consolidated and validated via field work
and participatory meetings with local institutions and populations, in order: (a) to analyze the
limitations to growth and sustainability in the forest sector; and (b) to recommend reforms and
policy actions designed to solve the limitations. A series of additional studies was to be
carried out, including several factors hitherto excluded (e.g., the impact of macro-economic
policy, community participation, environmental considerations in the new Constitution, the
reorganization of the legal and institutional frameworks, land titling initiatives for indigenous
and Afro-Colombian people, and policies directed towards decentralization), to provide the
analytical basis to produce the National Council for Economic and Social Policy (Consejo
Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social - CONPES) draft resolution on forest policy.
4.2.7  Once the program was under implementation, however, the MMA and the DNP
concluded that, given the time elapsed between project appraisal and Loan effectiveness and
the extensive work on forestry policy that had continued in that period, sufficient information
existed at the beginning of the program without the need for further study, and the draft
CONPES resolution (No. 2834) was published in January 1996.
4.2.8  A complete review was carried out of legal measures issued between 1991-1996
concerning forests, particularly the social and ecological aspects inherent in the application of
property rights over forested land, and this work supported the preparation of the 1996 decree
on Forest Use (Decreto 1791: October 4, 1996: Regimen de Aprovechamiento Forestal de
Colombia). A detailed evaluation was made of the existing policy incentives and the benefit
streams associated with them; it was concluded that, in their absence, the private sector would
have little incentive to change its behavior in the direction of reforestation or conservation. A
package of modified and new incentive measures was proposed. A study was made to
determine the maximum level of extraction of individual tree species in three types of forest, in
order to provide the CARs with the technical bases for controlling extraction starting in 1996.
The study proposed a restructuring of the system of extraction rates and a draft decree for the
definition of these rates to operate throughout Colombia (a norma is currently under review by
the MMA).
4.2.9  Colonization has been the principal factor in the destruction of tropical forest in
Colombia. In times of peace, there has been an acceleration of occupation of forest reserves
and peace per se does not guarantee the presence of govemrnent in these areas or any
rationalization of occupation. A study of colonization found that it is mainly an ad hoc
process badly in need of attention from the government. The areas of new colonization are
concentrated in the upper Cordilleras, on higher ground in the Amazon region, and on the
- 8-



Pacific coast, and are frequently based on deforestation for the establishment of extensive
pastures. Since the 1980s, the introduction of illegal crops (e.g., coca, marihuana and opium
poppies) has increased colonization of new areas, with the consequent destruction of forest and
the substitution of traditional agricultural systems. The study recommended a set of
measures, including community participation in the implementation of sustainable development
strategies and the strengthening of institutions to support them. However, it is self-evident
that a resolution of the current internal security emergency is a necessary condition to be
fulfilled before any serious attempt can be made to improve the process of colonization.
4.2.10 A study of the control and monitoring of the use of forest products concluded that it
was inadequate in almost all respects, mainly because of institutional weakness, lack of staff
and equipment, and inadequate budgets at the level of the CARs. External factors, especially
violence and the lack of security, are also important. Control has emphasized the transport of
products rather than the extractive process, which leads to the conclusion that it is unlikely that
the technical parameters established in the management plans are being respected. A series of
measures was proposed, including the creation of a national coordinating unit in the MMA, a
data base to allow the MMA and the CARs to have up-to-date information, and the
strengthening of staffing, control points and the control mechanism (including a forest
"passport" and timber identification).
4.2.11 A study of inter-sectoral policies that promote deforestation concluded that forestry
resources are systematically under-valued. Forest destruction as the legal means to obtain title
to land, mining that ignores the environmental externalities, and road-building (especially that
in support of petroleum extraction) which encourages migration were identified as the main
factors. Institutionally, there is a lack of coordination and a lack of awareness of the role of
the environmental authorities, both at the national and the regional level. The forest reserves,
although legally defined and constituted, do not have a clear line of authority over them,
leading to their partial illegal occupation and ex post facto legalization by means of the
mechanism of "Sustracci6n a las Reservas Forestales" (articles 2 and 3 of Ley No. 2 of
1959).
4.2.12 A study of the system of forest extraction permits in the Pacific coastal region
identified issues and proposed solutions for sustainable extraction. In addition, two further
studies were carried out: (a) a study of the domestic market for sawn-wood and other forest
products; and (b) a study of international markets for sawn-wood and other forest products.
4.2.13 A pilot study was carried out of forest zoning as a planning and environmental control
mechanism. The 1:100,000 scale thematic maps were combined into a Geographic
Information System (GIS) and 1: 15,000 scale maps were created for the area of Tarapaca,
located in Amazonian region of Colombia, with a detailed guide for methodology of forestry
zoning.
4.2.14 The preparation of the National Forestry Development Plan (Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo Forestal - PNDF) was aimed at establishing a strategic framework to incorporate
forestry into Colombia's economic development, using its comparative advantage and
promoting competitivity consistent with the sustainable use of both natural and planted forests.
The PNDF is based on: (a) a significant level of state support for the promotion and
development of forestry in recognition of its multifaceted role in the economy; (b) the central
principles of sustainable use and recuperation of degraded areas, in support of biodiversity and
-9-



conservation of ecosystems; and (c) the importance of market forces in an open commercial
environment to guide development and to reveal comparative advantage. Although a coherent
and well-articulated forest policy exists, its level of implementation is low. Whilst the
program's objectives were to provide the tools for the eventual achievement of the resource
protection goals (see paragraph 3.1.2) with the benefit of hind-sight it can be argued that
provision could have been made for support for its implementation. However, this would have
made for an even more complex program.
Sub-component A.2 - The Ecological Zoning of the Choco Region:
4.2.15 The purpose of the sub-component was: (a) to provide the instruments at the regional
level to plan and implement the use of natural resources in a sustainable manner, with
emphasis being given to community participation; (b) to produce new cartography of the
region and, based on available data, identify critical natural resource management issues; and
(c) to integrate the cartography and base information into a GIS. The basic work was carried
out by the Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi (IGAC), which is the mapping authority of
Colombia and, in addition, is renowned for its remote sensing and GIS capabilities. As a
result of this work, the following products were obtained:
(a)    a base-line study (Sintesis Integrada Regional) of actual and potential land use,
together with the main constraints on future development;
(b)    the results of the agro-ecological zoning and the methodology used, with mapping at
1: 100,000 scale;
(c)    detailed agro-ecological zoning in the pilot areas of Bajo San Juan, and the catchment
areas of the rio Guapi and the rio Mira, with mapping at 1 :100,000 scale;
(d)    a series of publications including a description of the methodology used, the digital
cartography and thematic mapping generated, and a Final Report.
4.2.16 The Choc6 Region is extremely heterogeneous in terms of ecosystems. It is
characterized by high rainfall (up to 10,000 mm in an exceptional year) and humidity,
associated with soils generally of low fertility and high acidity. The zoning is a useful tool;
however, for it to be fully taken advantage of at the level of municipalities (through their
Planes de Ordenamiento Municipal), indigenous reserves and community-titled lands the level
of detail would have to be increased.
Sub-component A.3 - Environmental Monitoring:
4.2.17 The purpose of the sub-component was to identify the short- and medium-term impacts
of four selected forest-use projects, to generate technical parameters for sustainable forest
product extraction, and to strengthen institutional capacity for environmental monitoring. In
practice, only one of the four forest-use projects identified in the SAR was studied. The study
of environmental impact in forest areas included three types of forest. The study in the area
known as Balsa II (in the lower rio Atrato basin) encompassed 24 parcels in four predefined
stages of inter. ntion of the natural forest and place emphasis on the Catival forest. In
addition, a study was carried out on 28 parcels located in five municipalities, 24 monitoring
Nadi palm extraction and four monitoring areas in which Guandal timber extraction had been
- 1 0 -



practiced earlier. Measurements were made between 1997-1999. The study planned for the
area of Uruba could not be carried out because of its poor security status.
Sub-component A.4 - Demarcation and Titling of Indigenous Reserves:
4.2.18 The purpose of the sub-component was to support the definition and legal protection
of lands of indigenous Amerindian people in the Choc6 region. This included the granting of
land titles to groups lacking secure title, establishing new reserves (resguardos indigenas) and
marking the boundaries of existing reserves. In November 1995, the MMA signed an
agreement (Convenio Interadministrativo Marco, no.45. November 17, 1995) with the
Agrarian Reform Institute (Instituto de Reforma Agraria - INCORA) to implement this
sub-component and that of titling of black communities.
[N.B. In March 1998, an Action Plan was established (through the inter-institutional
cooperation of MMA, the Red de Solidaridad and INCORA with the indigenous and
Afro-Colombian communities' organizations) conceming Sub-components A.3, A.4 and A.7
and defining the resources necessary to complete the collective titling. By the end of the
program, the Action Plan had been fully implemented.]
4.2.19 In this sub-component, 46 indigenous reserves were created and 10 were expanded,
significantly exceeding the target of 40 reserves established in the SAR. In total, they covered
324,287 ha (representing 16.3 percent of the total area of indigenous reserves in the Pacific
region) and include 9,272 people in 2,561 families. A further 10 reserves are in an advanced
stage of processing (they were presented to the Junta Directiva of INCORA in early 2001) and
8 have been the subject of up-dated socioeconomic, legal and land tenure studies for the
constitution of new reserves. In addition, 128 reserves have had full boundary demarcation (cf
the SAR target of 123).
Sub-component A.5 - Land Title Regularization for Afro-Colombian Communities:
4.2.20 The collective titling of land to Afro-Colombian communities is, arguably, the single
most important achievement of the whole program. A total of 2,359,204 ha was titled to 497
communities, to the benefit of 113,954 people in 22,132 families. Under the program,
community leaders were trained and the community organizations and councils were
responsible for carrying out the studies that are required by law before a given extension of
land can be recognized as being of collective property.
4.2.21 The purpose of the sub-component was to support initial actions to regularize and to
provide title to traditionally-occupied land to the black communities. The Constitution of
1991 and the subsequent law (Ley 70, 1993) recognized the rights of black communities to the
collective ownership of the lands that they have traditionally occupied in the Pacific coastal
region and elsewhere in the country. This constitutional and legal provision had as its
principal objective the legalization of these lands, recognizing that prior to 1991 there had
existed significant legal obstacles to this.
4.2.22 The Pacific Watershed (Cuenca del Pacifico) covers 10.08 million ha and has a wide
variety of coastal ecosystems and humid tropical forest. In 1959, it was declared to be a
Protected Forest Reserve (Reserva Protegida Forestal - RPF). The Natural Resources Code
(C6digo Nacional de Recursos Nacionales) of 1974 forbade the individual or collective titling
- 11 -



of the unoccupied land (terrenos baldios) in the areas of forest reserve. However, the Law
135 of 1961 (the Ley de Reforma Agraria - LRA), through the mechanism of "removal of
areas" (Sustracci6n a las Reservas Forestales) from the forest reserve, actively encouraged
the creation of colonies of peasant farmers, both local and migrants from other parts of
Colombia, over large parts of the region. In the thirty years following the approval of the
LRA, close to 1.5 million ha were removed from the forest reserves and given individual titles,
and in 1993 a further 0.5 million ha were the subject of title applications. Law 135 of 1961
provided for indigenous communities of the region the opportunity to have their collective
rights legalized over their ancestral lands via the establishment of indigenous reserves (
resguardos indigenas) in unoccupied land and the establishment, expansion and legalization of
the reserves.
4.2.23 By 1993, when Law 70 came into effect, INCORA had legalized in the Pacific area
137 indigenous reserves with 1,681,963 ha benefiting 9,673 families, and was processing a
further 44 reserves with 324,288 ha. Applications were expected to expand and create new
reserves covering a further 500,000 ha. In 1991, eight National Parks with an area of
580,500 ha were in existence, and eleven "special natural areas" with an area of 346,200 ha
had been created for a wide range of purposes (ranging from national defense to university
research). Thus, at the beginning of the 1990s a process of territorial definition was well
advanced in the Pacific region in favor of a range of institutional actors and individuals which
ignored the rights of the black communities as an ethnic group settled in the region and with
"ancestral" occupation of land but lacking any title of ownership (in spite of the efforts made
by their organizations for the legalization of their lands). By 1993, when Law 70 was
promulgated, the status of land tenure in the Pacific region was as follows:
Area (ha)
Private property                                                       1,820,000
Resguardos Indigenas in existence                                      1,681,963
Resguardos Indigenas and Reservas in formnation                         824,288
National Parks                                                          580,500
Special Natural Reserves                                                346,200
Urban Areas                                                             140,205
Area available for collective titling to black communities             4,686,844
Total area of the Pacific watershed area                               10,080,000
4.2.24 The sub-component was designed to "support initial actions to regularize and title land
of black commnunities in the Pacific Region" and, as described in the LA and the SAR, it was
clearly seen as facilitating or paving the way for such titling; there were no quantitative targets
set for the number of titles to be granted or the area to be covered. In the Convenio between
the MMA and INCORA, however, six specific commitments were agreed upon:
(a)    the dissemination of information on ethnic legislation and training of communities in
their new rights;
(b)    the strengthening of organization and processes in the black conmmunities to improve
their management and communication capacity;
- 12 -



(c)    the achievement of advances in the agreed and participatory definition of the territorial
rights of ethnic groups in the Pacific and other regions of Colombia;
(d)    the institutional development of INCORA to serve as a facilitator in the solution of
intra- and inter-ethnic conflicts;
(e)    the promotion of collective titling as a strategy for conservation and sustainable use of
bio-diversity in the Pacific region; and
(f)   the collective titling of 2.3 million ha of land during the five-year life of the Convenio.
4.2.25 During the period 1996-2000, INCORA succeeded in establishing 58 collective titles
over 2,359,204 ha of land, benefiting 497 communities (with 22,132 families and 113,954
people in total). In addition, a further 91 applications for collective titles are being processed
and the average state of advance is approximately 70 percent. These 91 applications cover
2,541,923 ha and will benefit 31,234 families.
4.2.26 In the achievement of these results, numerous obstacles were overcome and a
significant number of collateral benefits was generated. These included the resolution of legal
restrictions on the inclusion of areas of coastal mangrove forests in collective titles, the
processing of titles for communities displaced by violence, and the resolution of problems
originating in the over-lapping of areas defined for National Parks and other state entities with
the ancestral lands of black communities.
4.2.27 In the course of the implementation of the land titling program, there was a significant
increase in the intensity of the violence along the Pacific Coast and the displacement of both
the black and indigenous populations. In February 1997, for example, at the height of the
land titling program, a major displacement took place along the lower rio Atrato in the
Department of El Choc6. Many of the intemally displaced families were resettled in an
encampment in Pavarandosito and in the sports stadium in the municipio of Turbo,
Department of Antioquia. The Catholic Church and several human rights organizations, along
with the Red de Solidaridad Social, played an important role in the resettlement process, and
have since assisted the displaced families to return to their homes and communities along the
rio Atrato where, as a result of the land titling program, they now have secure collective titles
to their lands.
4.2.28 The sub-component made important advances, in particular, in training and
organizational strengthening. The Regional Committees of the program were planned as the
focal points of meeting with the black and indigenous communities on the subject of collective
titling. During the life of the Convenio, six Regional Committees and two Inter-ethnic
Regional Committees were established. Under the Convenio, 36 training exercises were
carried out to support black communities in the establishment of their Community Councils (
Consejos Comunitarios - CC) and in the formulation and presentation of their applications for
collective titles. More than 150 CCs were formed, which all presented their titling requests
for an area of 4,546,497 ha benefiting 74,446 families. In May 2000, the first National
Assembly of Community Councils of the Pacific region was held, with the participation of 148
CCs.
- 13 -



4.2.29 In terms of institutional development, INCORA created first a Division and later a
Program of Support to Black Communities in order to meet its responsibilities under the
Convenio and with respect to Law 70. The Loan and the Convenio made a fundamental
contribution to the functioning of the Technical Committee (Comisi6n Tecnica - CT) which
was created under Law 70. The CT was composed of delegates from INCORA, IGAC, and
MMA, and was responsible for the technical evaluation of the applications for collective titling
and for delimiting the area to be titled. The CT did not have the financial resources to
contract personnel, and it was agreed that the operation of the Central Support Unit of the CT
would be financed from the Loan via the Convenio between MMA and INCORA.
4.2.30 In order to overcome the serious deficiencies in mapping and related thematic
information available to the CT, a GIS was created by INCORA for the black and indigenous
communities. The basic levels of information include the areas covered by collective titles
given and under study, indigenous reserves, municipalities, and national parks. This GIS is
based on the GIS developed under Sub-component A.2 by the IGAC.
Sub-component A.6 - Institutional Analysis of Five CARs:
4.2.31 The purpose of the sub-component was to prepare proposals and action plans for the
restructuring of the five CARs to improve their capability and efficiency in the management of
natural resources. The original design had anticipated the hiring of specialized consultants to
carry out this work; however, the CU of the program (in coordination with the Environmental
Institutional Development Project of the MMA) revised the work that had been done in the
preparation of this sub-component in order to ensure that there was no duplication with work
that had already been done. The five CARs, also consulted, were of the opinion that sufficient
diagnoses had already been done, that the weaknesses of the CARs were already well-defined
and, therefore, that specific actions should be implemented immediately to improve their
administrative and financial functions, their ability to formulate and monitor projects, and their
institutional capability for environmental management. As a result, the program oriented its
resources to consolidate (from the administrative, financial and technical point of view) the
CARs of the Pacific. It provided computer equipment, hired consultants to identify the
strengths and weaknesses observed in the process of environmental planning of each of them,
and designed and implemented an application for the management of the information in the
data bases of Regional Investment Projects. The program did not include resources for actual
institutional strengthening of these CARs; without it, several of them remain weak and, whilst
it can be argued that by not going further than the diagnosis the program did little in practice to
develop the CARs, the inclusion of such resources would have made the program even more
complex.
Sub-component A.7 - Support for Five CRs:
4.2.32 The purpose of the sub-component was to support regional groupings of
representatives of the indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities, and the main mechanism
used by the program to promote community participation in the Pacific region, particularly in
the sub-components of collective titling, was the CRs. They were mainly involved in the
resolution of conflicts and the facilitation of decision-making. A number of self-supporting
structures were created, both inter-ethnic and intra-ethnic. Participation continues to be
- 14 -



strengthened within the Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad Social) and forms an
important part of the social policy of the government in the Choc6 region. More than one
hundred meetings and workshops were held. Between 1994-2000, and particularly after 1996,
this sub-component operated very closely with sub-components A.4 and A.5 and the
methodology used assisted greatly in the achievement of the results.
Component B - Water-shed Protection and Rehabilitation:
4.2.33 The purpose of the component was to support local activities: (a) to protect and
rehabilitate critical micro-catchment areas in the Western and Central Cordilleras; and (b) to
establish community fuelwood plantations to reduce pressure on the remaining highland natural
forests. It was projected that a total area of 143,500 ha of micro-catchments would be treated
and that 24,800 ha of reforestation activities of all kinds would be carried out. The
implementation of the component was principally the responsibility of the CARs, of which 18
participated, in addition to one Departmental government and two non-governmental
organizations (NGOs). In practice, the implementation of the component did not draw a
distinction between micro-catchment area protection and fuelwood production.
Sub-component B.1 - Micro-Catchment Area Protection, and Sub-component B.2 -
Community Fuelwood Plantations:
4.2.34 Work was carried out in 176 micro-catchment areas distributed in 123 municipalities.
Using Loan proceeds, 5,000 land-owners and tenants were involved, benefitting an estimated
131,000 people in the areas in which the work was carried out. Interventions included the
planting of forest species, ranging from purely protective stands to those used in conjunction
with livestock pastures or for the production of fuel, and "bio-mechanical" control (i.e.,
physical structures and planting of barriers) of erosion courses. An area of 19,267 ha was
reforested, of which 49 percent was combined protection & productive use, and 3,200 ha
benefited from physical erosion control alone. Agro-forestry and pasture-forestry covered
3,376 ha whereas forest for purely protective purposes reached 2,943 ha and that for fuelwood
purposes 2,745 ha.
4.2.35 Publicity, training and organization for community participation were of great
importance, and the CARs emphasized the role of local communities in the identification of
problems and the preparation of the activities. Participation, in effect, involved those affected
by the degradation of resources and those actually responsible for the degradation, and
stimulated a collective commitment to solving the problems and changing destructive practices.
The degree of participation and the level of success in these activities were closely related.
The activities carried out were an important source of employment, and the first three years of
establishing tree plantings are very labor intensive; it is estimated that over the period
1994-1999 about 4,700 person-years of employment were generated for unskilled labor.
Although the full benefits of tree-plantings will not be realized for many more years, there have
been many collateral benefits from tree planting including the use of foliage in animal feeding,
the impact of shade in coffee production, and an increase in land values. The activities have
also generated a number of extemal benefits, some of them foreseen at the time of preparation
and appraisal. For example, surface water flows from micro-catchment areas for domestic
purposes have been increased and stabilized in some areas, and land-slides have been reduced
in number. The activity has also served to change the mentality of many peasant farmers
towards the use of tree planting and in natural resource management in general.
- 15-



Component C - Management of National Parks and Buffer Zones:
4.2.36 The purpose of the component was to strengthen the capacity of the Administrative
Unit (Unidad Administrativa Especial - UAE) of the National Parks Service (Sistema de
Parques Nacionales Naturales - SPNN). The UAE was created as part of the MMA in
December 1995 to protect some of the most threatened and diverse ecosystems in the western
part of Colombia. (The Parks Unit - Unidad de Parques - is responsible for the
administration of the whole of the Protected Areas System - Sistema Nacional de Areas
Protegidas - in Colombia.) The activities of the component were directed at the nine national
parks and one Special Management Area in the Choco region of the Pacific coast (Choc6
Biogeografico Colombiano), which cover a total of 1,007,987 ha. Through the component,
efforts were made to strengthen technical and administrative management at the central and
regional level and to improve inter-institutional coordination. Three decentralized regions of
the SPNN were involved: the north-west, with six parks; the south-west, with three; and the
southern Andean, with one. A separate MTR was carried out for this component in early
2000.
4.2.37 Although the component as described in the SAR nominally contained seven
mutually-reinforcing sub-components (see Section 3, paragraph 3.3.1), in practice the
activities carried out cannot be compartmentalized easily and it is analytically more helpful to
consider them not as sub-components but as separate, related activities within one component.
Its implementation began in October 1996. A master plan (Matriz L6gica del Plan Operativo
General) was prepared for the parks in the Pacific region, the approval of which, in mid-1997,
allowed the government of The Netherlands to proceed with full funding of the component.
(Of the total of US$7.12 million, only US$4.57 million of the grant was actually spent as a
result of budgetary ceilings imposed.) The plan provided a clear guide for annual planning
and for implementation. Beginning in 1998, detailed management plans were prepared in
conjunction with the communities affected for each of the nine parks in the component.
4.2.38 In terms of the achievements of the component as a whole, the National Parks Service
has been significantly strengthened; its professional capacity has been increased and it is very
committed to the objectives of the program. A basic minimum level of equipment has been
established, to enable the program to function at the levels of the regional and individual parks.
There has been considerable interaction with local communities, where in conjunction with the
municipalities in the formulation of their zoning plans (Planes de Ordenamiento Territorial -
POTs) the national parks have been included as conservation and environmental protection
zones. The policy of social participation for resource conservation has helped to overcome
conflicts in the protected areas, and in the buffer areas of the marine parts of certain parks the
definition of artisanal fishing areas have been pragmatic solutions to potentially difficult
problems. There were significant advances in consolidating an increase in income from
ecotourism for the Parks System, at least until the upsurge in the level of violence which
occurred in 1999. The promulgation of Decree No. 1124 in June, 1999 has provided the
Parks Service with the legal basis to implement mechanisms to achieve a sustainable financial
system for itself. However, it must be concluded that satisfactory progress was not made with
the preparation of the strategy and action plan to achieve the long-term funding of the protected
areas.
- 16 -



Component D - Forestry and Environmental Education, Training, Research, Project
Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation
4.2.39 The purposes of the component were: (a) to provide skills and knowledge through
research, education and training for the forestry sector in particular and for environmental
management in general; (b) to support the implementation of the program through a
Coordinating Unit; and (c) to establish an independent "panel of experts" to provide reviews
and advice in the implementation of the program.
Sub-component D.1 - Education and University Research:
4.2.40 The educational results achieved in this sub-component are shown below:
Institution           Total    Students  Students  Students  Number of
number of  financed  graduated  retired   places
students                                 offered
National University: Forestry   50         48        39        9         50
Technology Program
Industrial University of Santander:  72    46        39        7         40
Forestry Technology Program
National College: Forestry      163        83        83        6         80
Technicians Program
University of Tolima: M.Sc. in   10        3         0         0         10
Hydrogeological Basins
National University: M.Sc in     5          1        0         0         10
Tropical Forest Management
Total                           300       181        125       22        190
Students benefiting from financial support were required to provide 800 hours of service to any
institution within the SINA, either during or at the completion of their studies.
4.2.4] The institutions participating restructured their programs of studies and invested in the
re-equipment of laboratories and field equipment for research. In order to improve the
capacity for research at universities and in the agencies that make up the SINA, between
1996-1998 the MMA, universities and others undertook a series of measures to identify the
subjects and areas for research. A Technical Committee (Comite Tecnico Operativo) was
established and two priority subjects were identified, for which terms of reference were
prepared for the presentation of research proposals. However, because of problems with the
incorporation of the resources into the budget of the Colombian Institute for the Development
of Higher Education (Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educacion Superior -
ICFES) no further work was carried out under this sub-component.
Sub-component D.2 - Vocational Training:
4.2.42 The purpose of the sub-component was to train semi-skilled staff and workers in
forestry and environmental protection, and was applied to both the Pacific and Amazon
regions. It was implemented in three phases: diagnosis of problems and publicity of the
training activities, training in specific areas identified at the community level, and the
- 17 -



implementation of a training strategy through small projects. In total, 1,275 people were
trained under the sub-component. The training activities were complemented by practical
activities including the establishment of nurseries and agro-forestry parcels. In several cases,
community organizations were created or strengthened for the purpose of managing forestry
resources.
Sub-component D.3 - Forestry Research:
4.2.43 The sub-component was designed to support a small number of forestry research and
demonstration activities, to be implemented by both private and public entities to improve
technical knowledge for plantation forestry, to monitor the environmental impact of
plantations, and to manage natural forest resources in the Choc6 region. Nine activities were
supported:
(a)    the production of species of high commercial value for industrial-scale reforestation;
(b)    the conservation of forest genetic resources in the Andean region;
(c)    specimen selection from two tree species of high commercial value in the
coffee-production region;
(d)    the establishment of a technical and statistical information system for industrial-scale
forestry plantations;
(e)    the evaluation of the environmental impact of forestry plantations;
(f)    identification of methods of protection of forestry plantations;
(g)    the control, management and sustained utilization of Naidi palm forest in the Pacific
coastal region;
(h)    community management of forest in areas of settlement; and
(i)   the conservation and management of humid tropical forests in north-east Antioquia.
Sub-component D.4 - The Program Coordinating Unit:
4.2.44 The Coordinating Unit (Unidad Coordinadora - UC) for the implementation of the
program was created at the central level attached to the General Sub-directorate (Subdirecci6n
General) of the National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeacion -
DNP). The UC was transferred to the MMA in January 1995, as projected in the SAR,
shortly after the Loan became effective. The financial resources of the program were
incorporated into the investment budget of the MMA and were utilized by public and private
entities via annual operating contracts. The UC played a pivotal role between the MMA and
the Bank in ensuring compliance with the conditions of the LA, as well as ensuring that the
components of the program were in accordance with the environmental directives of the
national development plans in effect during the implementation of the program. It also
- 18 -



operated as a source of advice and training for staff of the implementing agencies in both
technical and financial aspects of the program.
Sub-component D.5 - Project Preparation and Evaluation:
4.2.45 The purpose of the sub-component was to carry out a number of specific tasks:
(a)    the preparation of the base-line study referred to in paragraph 4.2.2;
(b)    the design of the monitoring and evaluation system referred to in paragraph 4.2.2;
(c)    the identification and preparation of a future program for natural forest management
and land titling in the Choc6 region;
(d)    the preparation of specific sub-projects under the program;
(e)    the preparation of the report providing the basis for the MTR; and
(f)    the preparation of the final report and contribution to the ICR process.
4.2.46 Under the sub-component, four principal studies were carried out: (a) the preparation
of the policies, plans and programs for the long-term development of the Pacific region of
Colombia - the Agenda Pacifico XXI; (b) the preparation of the macro land-use zoning (
Ordenamiento Territorial) of the Pacific region; (c) the preparation of a development program
for the Amazon region - the Agenda Amazdnica XXI, and (d) the strengthening and
consolidation of the National Parks system in Colombia. This was a significant departure
from what had been intended at program design. Whilst some of the changes can properly be
attributed to pragmatic decisions taken in the light of the actual experience of implementing the
program, others resulted in gaps in knowledge and information that hindered the achievement
of the objectives. The preparation of the base-line study began late and did not generate the
information needed. As a result, the monitoring and evaluation system was not implemented,
and it was left to Bank staff working with the UC to prepare a set of rudimentary indicators to
follow implementation. The required report by consultants in preparation for the MTR was
not prepared, and the final reports (which were presented with a wealth of detail - see Annex 8)
were prepared by the UC itself.
Sub-component D.6 - The Panel of Independent Experts:
4.2.47 The purpose of the sub-component was to establish a group independent of the
government to carry out annual reviews of the program, to recommend adjustments, to help
resolve conflicts, and to facilitate coordination with other projects both in the area of influence
of the program and in the rest of Colombia. The Panel was established only after a delay, and
in effect never functioned as it was designed to do. It was available during the period of the
MTR, but appears not to have functioned thereafter.
- 19-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  No ex ante economic analysis was made of the program or of any of its components.
As stated in the SAR, the main benefits were expected to be environmental and could not be
quantified.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  No financial analysis was made of any of the components or activities carried out under the
program.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  The program had a significant impact on several of the participating institutions,
particularly on the MMA. However, the impact on institutional development of the CARs
was low.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  The program was seriously affected by the lack of intemal security in Colombia which
steadily worsened as the program's implementation progressed. This affected the achievement
of the subsidiary objectives in particular, because both of the geographical areas concemed
suffered a lack of security and actual violence and displacement of people that restricted travel
by technical staff and disrupted the lives of the local populations, in some cases making
intemal refugees of the very people that were the target beneficiaries of the program.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 The most important factors affecting the program were the budget problems and fiscal
austerity measures that began in 1995. In that year (the first full year of implementation)
budgetary resources were not actually made available until the very end of the year, and
beginning in 1996 the government limited both the amount budgeted for investment under the
program and the proportion of that budget actually made available (the authorized monthly
expenditures - PAC) to the implementing agencies. As a result of this constraint, US$15.4
million from the total amount of the Loan of US$39.0 million (39.5 percent) was eventually
cancelled at the request of the government. A major complication was introduced in the
Budget Law of 1997, which prohibited one public sector agency from transferring resources to
another without modification of the Budget law itself by Congress. This rendered the
implementation arrangements unworkable, and a pragmatic solution, devised in mid-1997, was
not made effective until near the end of that year, and only at that point could contracts for that
year's activities be signed. The negative impact was particularly marked in Component B
(investment in micro-catchment areas).
5.2.2  The transfer of the program's UC from the DNP to the MMA at the beginning of the
- 20 -



implementation period was made without the administrative problems that might have been
foreseen in such a move. The commitment and professionalism of the UC was exemplary.
The level of government commitment to the program was variable. With the changes in
government, conmmitment was weak at least until the importance of the program for the
development of the SINA was fully appreciated. Changes in relative priorities by different
administrations contributed to unnecessary delays in the implementation of some
sub-components.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 The UC was a small but technically qualified unit that made judicious use of consultants
to carry out its functions. It was faced with a significant task inherent in coordinating
eighteen implementing agencies. In most of the sub-components where it was relevant, the UC
placed considerable emphasis on the participation of program beneficiaries and those otherwise
affected by the program. The UC went to considerable lengths to prepare the progress
reports, but the monitoring and evaluation of the program were significantly affected by the
incomplete base-line study and the apparent failure to transform the study into a workable
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1  The total cost of the program estimated at appraisal was US$65.34 million, of which
US$39.0 was to be financed from the Bank's loan and U$26.34 million was to be financed by
the central government and local agencies. As anticipated at appraisal, a grant was made by
the government of The Netherlands which made up part of the counter-part financing; the
grant, for US$7.12 million, became effective in July 1996 (20 months after the effectiveness of
the Bank's loan) and was destined to finance the whole cost of Component C; in practice, only
USS4.45 million of the grant was disbursed (the balance of US$2.56 million being cancelled)
and this was complemented by US$1.91 million of the govemrnent's own resources. At the
end of 1998, as a result of its severe fiscal crisis, the government took the decision to utilize
only part of the loan and to reduce counter-part funding proportionally. The amount of
US$15.4 million was cancelled from the loan and the proposed counter-part funding was
reduced to US$15.75 million. In practice, the whole of the reduced amount of the loan was
utilized and counter-part funding reached US$22.33 million.
Components                       Appraisal   Implemented
Estimate       Cost
(US$ million)  (US$ million)
A - The Development of National Forest Policy and a Natural  10.80    9.23
Resource Management Strategy for the Choco Region
B - Water-shed Protection and Rehabilitation            25.74        17.40
C - Management of National Parks and Buffer Zones       8.73          6.47
D - Forestry & Environmental Education, Training, Research,  20.06   12.20
Project Management, and Monitoring & Evaluation
Total                                                65.33        45.30
- 21 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The sustainability of the program's achievements is considered likely, assuming that the
government of Colombia, and the MMA in particular, remain committed to the objectives of
sustainable management and protection of natural resources. The greatest impediment is
without doubt the lack of security and the levels of violence to which very large parts of the
national territory are subject. The program's achievements are necessary but not sufficient
conditions for the achievement of the ultimate goals; to a large extent, the products of the
program represent the enabling environment in which these ultimate goals can be sought, but
by definition the application of even the soundest policy cannot be extended to areas that are
not under government control. The achievements of the program with respect to the titling of
land of indigenous Afro-Colombian peoples should lead to sustainable management of these
areas, although the program was not able to go as far as necessary in the preparation of plans
to this end.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 The program represented an investment in the creation of a mechanism (of policy and
instruments) to be applied throughout Colombia and a series of interventions in two separate
and geographically-defined areas. These basic tools remain in the MMA and the other
participating agencies and there is no specific "transition arrangement to regular operations"; in
this sense, the program was implemented within the regular operations of the different
agencies. In practice, there are no M&E perfonnance indicators generated as a result of the
program.
6.2.1 There are, theoretically at least, numerous opportunities for the Bank to work with the
government of Colombia in the areas of rural development and sustainable use of natural
resources. Colombia has a wealth and heterogeneity of natural resources which are the envy
of many countries and which, under other conditions, would generate significant opprtunities,
inter alia, for eco-tourism. However, the poor and worsening status of internal security
severely circumscribes the scope for these necessary project interventions.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1. 1 The process of identification, preparation and appraisal of the program took five
years, and, although this apparent "delay" was criticized by the government in early 1993, in
retrospect it can be seen as an example of close cooperation between the government, the Bank
and the FAO-CP in the design of a coherent and appropriate operation set against a changing
institutional and policy background. The Bank's processes of internal review functioned well,
and resulted in major changes to the program's design in two key aspects.
7.1.2 Identification of the program began in June 1988, and there were four identification
- 22 -



missions by the Bank and/or FAO-CP in the period up to August 1989. Preparation of the
program began in early 1990 with an FAO-CP mission to define an operation in support of the
PAFC, and its revised Project Brief was dated April 10, 1990. In July and December 1990,
FAO-CP carried out short missions to support the local preparation team. The Initial
Executive Project Sumrnary (IEPS) of January 25, 1991 (for what was then called the Forestry
and Environmental Protection Project) emphasized the strengthening of institutions and
technical capacity as essential contributions for the establishment of a new institutional
structure for natural resource management in Colombia. Many of the components and
activities which eventually made up the program were defined at that time, although a forest
plantation incentive scheme, which was a major component of the proposed program, was later
dropped, as was a sizeable Global Environment Facility (GEF) component. The issues
focused on: (a) the transitional institutional requirements before the new structure could be
installed; and (b) the extensive work and collaboration needed to prepare the policy framework.
Preparation was expected to be costly. Two requests for Japanese Grant Funds for the
Environment (in February and September 1990) were rejected, although it is not clear from the
record why this was the case. An application by the govemnment of Colombia for a Bank
Project Preparation Facility advance was also proposed in January 1990, but was not
proceeded with.
7.1.3 The Interim Preparation report prepared by FAO-CP was dated May 1991. The
Bank carried out a final preparation mission in April 1992, with the objective of taking over
from FAO-CP any further required preparation work, based on its Final Preparation Report of
October 1991, and initiating the processing of a loan. At that time, it was expected that the
FEPS and (white cover) Staff Appraisal Report would be prepared by June 30 1992, and
appraisal was scheduled for July 1992. A detailed review of the preparation report by
specialized Bank staff concluded that the design of the project should focus more
systematically on incorporating indigenous people (and Afro-Colombian people) into the
project design because of their importance in the area; this "quality at entry" contribution by
Bank staff was to have far-reaching and highly beneficial consequences in project
implementation.
7.1.4  The "updated" EPS of July 1992 described the proposed project as the first phase of a
long-term program, and part of a wider range of institution building and development
initiatives aimed at forestry and environmental issues. At this stage, the three major issues
concemed indigenous people, forestry planting incentives and the project's institutional
structure. The major risks were felt to be the evolving institutions (given the then-current
process of decentralization), the commitment of the govemment to take stronger measures
concerning forest policies and taxes, and the issue of intemal security. A lively intemal debate
ensued in the Bank, one result of which was to drop the Forest Plantation Incentive Scheme
component from the project; at this point, the project's name was changed to the Natural
Resource Management Program
7.1.5  A "pre-appraisal/appraisal" mission was carried out in August 1992, and was
subsequently reclassified as a pre-appraisal. An appraisal mission was planned for
January-February 1993, but following Departmental review was reclassified as a further
pre-appraisal mission, charged with clarifying a number of pending issues including: the legal,
institutional and policy frameworks; the appropriateness of the proposed interventions relative
to the causes of deforestation; and forestry policy. This mission found that the investment
components of the program had been fully prepared; having agreed on the basic principles of
- 23 -



forest policy reform, a time-frame was established by which the drafting and approval of a
forest policy document would proceed pari passu with the processing of the loan. At this
stage, forest research, forestry education and training, a base-line study, forest policy
evaluation for the mid-term review, and an indigenous peoples & community development plan
were all introduced into the program.
7.1.6  In March 1993, an impasse was reached with the government over the issue of
appropriate policies and investments for tropical forest management in the
environmentally-sensitive Choc6 region. A high-level delegation visited Washington DC in
April 1993 for the express purpose of deciding on the next steps, which included the possibility
of the Bank disengaging from the program. The proposed investments in the Choc6 region
were clearly inconsistent with the Bank's Forest Policy, and the Bank's preferred position,
which was essentially agreed upon with the government, was to help develop forest policies,
including the regulatory framework, the land information data base, and the clarification of
land rights of the Afro-Colombian people who predominate in the area. At this point,
agreement was also reached in principle with the governnent of the Netherlands to finance the
National Parks component. The Final Executive Project Summary was prepared in June and
an appraisal mission was carried out in July 1993. The Departmental review of the program
took place in August, negotiations were held in October, and the Loan was approved by the
Board in December 1993.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  The program was intensively supervised by the Bank, and general supervision
missions were supplemented by smaller visits by specialists whose responsibilities lay at the
level of individual components (and occasionally sub-components) of the program. Two
supervision missions were carried out prior to Loan Effectiveness, and between June 1994 (the
project launch) and April 2000 a further twenty-one supervision missions were undertaken.
7.2.2  The MTR was carried out in January 1997, in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
This occurred barely two years after Loan Effectiveness and three years before the
originally-defined Closing Date of December 31, 1999 (and more than four years before the
actual Closing Date of March 31, 2001). The MTR recognized that the implementing
arrangements of a coordinating unit operating through annual work programs and contracts
with 26 implementing agencies were difficult, especially when the complexities of the
Colombian budget allocation and management system were taken into account. When the
possibility grew of the loan amount being reduced as a result of pressure by the government to
reduce public expenditure, the Bank did not accept the proposal made by the MMA to re-direct
part of the Loan's resources to the CARs with the guarantee of the central government, and no
agreement could be reached on any other alternative.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  The overall performance by the Bank is considered to have been satisfactory.
Although the time elapsed between initial identification and Board approval was over five
years, the Bank was responsible for a significant number of design changes, particularly at the
later stages, and was required to take a firm stand on important issues of policy.
- 24 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The preparation of the project was carried out in Colombia by a local team
coordinated by PAFC/TS in DNP and including CARs, ICFES, and the National Renewable
Resources Institute (Instituto Nacional de los Recursos Naturales Renovables y del Ambiente
- INDERENA) (see FAO-CP May 1991). In mid-February l991, some US$1.0 million was
made available to Colombia by the government of The netherlands (through FAO) to
strengthen the PAFC Technical Secretariat over a three-year period (1991-1993) and to carry
out studies necessary for project preparation (some of which had already been started).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The program was designed and implemented against a back-drop of changing sector
policies, designed to improve environmental controls and management of natural resources, but
deteriorating macro-economic policies which resulted in budgetary pressures and a defacto
reduction in the size of the program. The government remained committed to the program
throughout its life, and this was emphasized at the time of the MTR.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  The management of the program was effective, and the UC worked well in
coordinating a complex set of activities and a large number of implementing agencies, in spite
of the significant budgetary limitations which operated over the entire life of the program. At
the time of the MTR in early 1997, a separate evaluation was made of the financial
management of the program which found that, while further improvements were required, it
was satisfactory and that significant progress had been made in 1996 to address the issues
raised in the audit for 1995, especially on internal controls. A key recommendation of the
evaluation was to strengthen accounting and to integrate the financial management system, in
order to be able to use it as a management tool. The audit of the 1995 fiscal year's accounts
and procedures was determined by the Bank not to have been in conformity with Bank norms,
and a private audit firm was contracted to be responsible for the audit of the remaining part of
the program. Delays in implementation were mainly beyond the reach of the UU; the delay in
declaring the Loan effective, which was immediately followed by budget restrictions and
procedural obstacles, exacerbated the difficulties inherent in a complex project.
7.6.2  The program was intensive in its use of technical assistance, and the hiring of
consultants and consulting firns was carried out efficiently. As described elsewhere, the lack
of a proper M&E system was a serious handicap. Large parts of the program were absolutely
dependent on the participation of potential beneficiaries, and in some sub-components (for
example, the collective titling of land and the organization of the Regional Committees that
supported it) the performance was exemplary. In general, the compliance with the covenants
of the LA was good, as was procurement and the preparation of progress reports; if anything,
the progress reports and the final report were rather too voluminous and densely packed with
information, and would have benefited from summary. As attested to by Annex 7, a large
number of studies was carried out particularly in Components A and C.
- 25 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  The overall performance by the Borrower is considered to have been satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.01   In the implementation of the program, a number of important lessons have been
learned or reinforced. These include the following:
(a)    It is essential to have an M&E system in place at the beginning of a project, and this
implies that the preparation of the base-line study and the design of the M&E system itself
should occur as early as possible in the project cycle. In the program, the study and design
were supposed to take place early in implementation, but even though the Loan became
effective in November 1994 the preparation of the base-line study did not begin until late in
1996. An adequate M&E system is, in practical terms, of equal importance to a properly
functioning accounting system for project management.
(b)    Flexibility and pragmatism in implementation should be encouraged when an
opportunity presents itself. In the sub-component of titling for Afro-Colombian communities
in the Choc6 region, the program moved swiftly beyond merely providing the enabling
environment for titling and, in the space of a few years, was able to establish (or provide the
basis for establishing) collective titling for all the land available for these communities.
(c)    The experience of the early years of implementation with respect to accounting,
financial management and audit strongly endorses the Bank's recent initiatives to require the
installation of a proper accounting system as a necessary condition for the processing of a
loan.
(d)    The implementation of the National Parks and Buffer Zones component generated two
specific lessons:
(i)    The conservation of natural resources depends crucially upon community
participation and partnership, especially in those areas where community territories (in this
case, those of the Afro-Colombian and indigenous populations) adjoin or overlap the
boundaries of national parks or other protected areas. The program supported and emphasized
the need for appropriate, locally-supported (i.e., participatory) park management plans. This
created a higher degree of local identification with the parks, reversing long-standing feelings
of exclusion and prejudice against them.
(ii)   The effectiveness and impact of international cooperation, technical assistance
and partnerships are enhanced when cooperation goes beyond the supervision and auditing of
progress, and extends to participation in the launching of the programs they finance. In this
manner, the international partners assume some responsibility for the outcomes and results.
- 26 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
9.1.1  Comments were received from the implementing agency and have been incorporated into the text of
the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSRl                ActuaULatest Estimate
Production of national forest policy                                        see paragraphs 4.2.5 - 4.2.14. A series of
statements                                                                  policy studies and statements was made
during the life of the program.
Modification of national forest                                             see paragraph 4.2.8. The Regimen de
statutes/regulations                                                        Aprovechamiento Forestal de Colombia was
issued in October 1996.
Number of new indigenous reserves titled                                    see paragraph 4.2.19. 46 reserves were
and demarcated                                                              created and 10 were expanded.
Number of Afro-Colombian communities with                                   see paragraph 4.2.20. 497 communities
community titie                                                             received Utles to their land.
Performance of regional corporations (CARs)                                 see paragraph 4.2.31.
in key areas of responsibility
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                ActuaVLatest Estimate
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million    US$ million
A  The Development of National Forest Policy and a      8.50            9.23           108.6
Natural Resource Mmanagement Strategy for the Choc6
Region
B  Water-shed Protection and Rehabilitation            19.07           17.40            91.2
C  Management of National Parks and Buffer Zones        7.08            6.47           100.6
D  Forestry & Environmental Education, Training,       15.58           12.20            78.3
Research, Project Management, and Monitoring &
Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                                    50.23           45.30
Physical Contingencies                                 2.31
Price Contingencies                                   12.80
Total Project Costs              65.34            45.30
Total Financing Required               65.34           45.30
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB           Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                     2.00          2.10                        4.10
()          (1.10)         (1.20)          0          (2.30)
2. Goods                       0.50          2.50          2.00                        5.00
(0.30)        (1.50)        (1.20)          0           (3.00)
3. Services                                                12.80                      12.80
_______________________   o  0  (8.30)     0          (8.30)
4. Materials, supplies and                   7.40          11.10                       18.50
local transport                 0           (3.60)         (5.30)          0          (8.90)
5. Salaries and labor                                                    25.10        25.10
0             0              0          (16.50)       (16.50)
Total                       0.50          11.90         28.00         25.10         65.50
(0.30)        (6.20)        (16.00)       (16.50)      (39.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 29 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      GovL       CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.     Bank   GoVt.  CoF.
A - The Development of     9.80      1.00                 7.10      2.13               72.4   213.0
National Forest Policy and
a Natural Resource
Management Strategy for
the Choco Region
B - Watershed Protection  12.90      12.90                7.51      9.89               58.2    76.7
and Rehabilitation
C - Management of                    8.70                                     6.47             0.0
National Parks and Buffer
Zones
D - Forestry &            16.30      3.70                 9.01      3.19               55.3    86.2
Environmental Education,
Training, Research,
Project Management, and
Monitoring & Evaluation
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No ex ante economic analysis was made of the program or of any of its components.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1988                    2    FAO/CP: Forester, Economist
January 1989                 1    Bank: Economist
April 1989                   3    FAO/CP: Forester, FMS,
Economist
August 1989                  4   Bank and FAO/CP: 2
Economists, 2 Foresters
February 1990                2   FAO/CP: Forester, Agronomist
May 1990                     1    Bank: Economist
June 1990                    2    FAO/CP: Forester, Economist
December 1990                2    FAO/CP: Forester, FMS
December 1990                2    Bank: 2 Economists
February 1991                7    FAO/CP and Bank: 2 Foresters,
FMS, 2 Economists, Watershed
Management and Conservation
Specialists, Environmental
Economist
July 1991                    4    2 Foresters, Project Analyst,
Economist
April 1992                   7   Bank and FAO/CP: 3
Economists, FMS, 2 Foresters,
Conservationist
Appraisal/Negotiation
August 1992                  5    Bank: Economist, FMS,
Environmental and
Watershed Specialists,
Forester
January-February             5   Bank: 2 Economists,
1993                             FMS,Environmental and
Watershed Specialists
June-July 1993               4   Bank: Economist, FMS, 2
Environmental Specialists
Supervision
January 1994:                3    Economist, FMS,                    S             S
prior to loan                     Environmental Specialist
effectiveness
March 1994:                  1    Environmental Specialist
prior to loan
effectiveness
June 1994:                   5    3 Environmental Specialists,       S             S
project launch                   Tropical Forest Specialist,
Sociologist,
September 1994               1   FMS
December 1994                3    Environmental Specialist,          S             S
- 32 -



Sociologist, FMS
April 1995                   3   Environmental and (2) Forest
Policy Specialists
June 1995                    1   FMS
June-July 1995               5   (2) Environmental and Forest        S             S
Policy Specialists, Marine
Biologist, Forestry Specialist
October 1995                 2   Forest Policy Specialists
October-                     2   Environmental Specialist, FMS       S             S
November 1995
February 1996                2   Environmental Specialist,           U             S
Sociologist
June-July 1996               3    Environmental Specialist, 2        S             S
Foresters
September 1996               2   Environmental and National
Parks Specialists
January 1997                 6    Economist, Environmental           S             S
Mid-term Review                   Specialist, Sociologist, 2 Forest
Policy Specialists, FMS
April-May 1997               1   Watershed Management
Specialist
May 1997                     2    Environmental Specialist
Netherlands Govt. Official
December 1997                1   Economist
January 1998                 5   Economist, 2 Environmental          S             S
Specialists, Sociologist,
Environmental Economist
October 1998                 6   Economist, Sociologist, 2           S             S
Environmental Specialists,
Environmental Economist,
Netherlands Government Official
February 1999                2   Environmental Specialists
October 1999                 1   Environmental Specialist
December 1999                1   Environmental Specialist
April 2000                   1   Agricultural Economist              S             S
ICR
March-April                  1    Agricultural Economist             S             S
2001
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                         OH   OSUOM       ON    *NA
E Sector Policies                         OH   *SUOM       ON    O NA
E Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
El Financial                              O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
El Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M    0 N   0 NA
E Environmental                           O H  *SUOM       O N   O NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
El Gender                          O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)           0 H   O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
Collective titling of lands of indigenous
and Afro-Colombian communities
E Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M    0 N   * NA
E Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M    0 N   * NA
E Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M    O N   * NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
El Lending                                         OHS OS       OU     OHU
E Supervision                                      O HS * S     OU     OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       Ou     OH U
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
El Preparation                                     O HS * S     O U    O HU
EL Government implementation performance           0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
El Implementation agency performance               0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 12250-CO): December 2, 1993
2.      Loan Agreement (Loan No. 3692-CO): August 9, 1994
3.      Progress Reports (Informes Semestrales): Unidad Coordinadora, Ministerio del Medio
Ambiente: Bogota
4.     Individual Reports of the Members of the Panel of Experts: February, 1997
5.     Mid-term Review Report on Financial Management (Informe sobre la Evaluaci6n de
Administraci6n Financiera del Prestamo 3692 - CO: April 1997
6.      Manual de Procedimientos Contables: Unidad Coordinadora: Bogota, September 1996
7.     Informe Final Preliminar 1994-2000: Programa de Manejo de Recursos Naturales (pp. 452):
Unidad Coordinadora: Bogota, February 2001
8.     Informe Final 1994-2000: Programa de Manejo de Recursos Naturales (pp. 196): Unidad
Coordinadora: Bogota, June 2001
9.     Zonificaci6n Ecol6gica de la Regi6n Pacifica Colombiana: Instituto Geografico Agustin
Codazzi, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente: BogotA, December 2000
10.    Componente de Titulaci6n Colectiva de Tierras para Comunidades Negras - Informe Final:
Convenio 045/1995 INCORA/Ministerio del Medio Ambiente: Credito BIRF 3692-CO: Bogota,
2001
11     Revisi6n de Politicas Sectoriales que Promueven la Deforestacion en Colombia: Informe
Final: Ecoforest Ltda. Bogota, November 1997
12.    Incentivos Econ6micos para la Conservacion en Colombia: Informe Final: Ambiental
Consultores/Gaitan y Uribe Consultores/Econ6mica Consultores: Bogota, December 1996
13.    Investigaci6n de Mercados Intemacionales para Productos Forestales Maderables y
No-Maderables, sus Derivados y Manufacturas: Informe Final: Econometria Consultores -
ACOFORE: Bogota, May 1999
14.    Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Forestal: Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, Direcci6n General de
Ecosistemas: Bogota, December 1998
15.    Diagn6stico, Estrategia Nacional e Instrumento de Negociaci6n de Recursos de Credito para
el Desarrollo de la Gesti6n Ambiental en Materia de Fauna Terrestre y Acuatica en Colombia:
Convenio Ministerio del Medio Ambiente/Instituto de Ciencias Naturales: Bogota, November 1998
- 36 -



Additional Annex 8.     Summary of the Borrower's Report
Introduction
8.1    Colombia participated fully in the Tropical Forestry Action Plan led by FAO and others since
1985, and the Forestry Action Plan (Plan de Accion Forestal de Colombia - PAFC), formulated between
1987-1989, has been the central pillar of government policy since then. Deforestation in Colombia has
been concentrated in the accessible areas of better soils destined for agricultural purposes, but their
inadequate use and management has provoked erosion, degradation, loss of biodiversity and the
destabilization of catchment areas with the consequent increase in flood risks. The cost of implementing
the PAFC was estimated at US$232 million.
8.2    For the implementation of Colombia's Environmental Policy and its PAFC, the Government of
Colombia authorized the use of funding from the multilateral institutions up to US$140 million. Based on
this, in August 1994 the Loan Agreement No. 3692-CO was signed with the IBRD for Natural Resource
Management Program (NRMP) for US$39.0 million and counter-part funding of US$26.29 million was
committed, including US$7.12 million of grant funds from the Government of the Netherlands.
8.3    The NRMP was principally aimed.at conserving the forests and biodiversity of the Pacific coastal
region, stimulating the recovery of degraded areas in the Central and Westem Cordillera, and improving the
management of natural resources through institutional and technical strengthening. The NRMP had four
components: (a) Policy and Strategic Development; (b) Rehabilitation of Micro-catchment Areas; (c)
Management of National Parks; and (d) Education, Training and Research. During the implementation of
the Program, several new activities were introduced to respond to the needs of environmental policies and
regional initiatives; these included the regional for a created under the Agenda XXI for the Pacific and the
Agenda XXI for the Amazon.
The Natural Resource Management Program
8.4    Objectives:   The central objective was to develop the national forestry policy in the framework
of the application of environmental policy and to establish the technical and institutional basis to slow down
the degradation of natural resources , promote their sustainable use and to protect and recuperate those
areas which were degraded or fragile, or otherwise of strategic importance for regional and local
development. There were seven specific objectives:
(a)    to complete the agro-ecological zoning of the Choc6 bio-geographic zone and begin the
development of appropriate forestry and agro-forestry activities;
(b)    to promote community titling of forest land;
(c)    to define national policy and lines of action to make compatible forestry development, conservation
and sustained use;
Note: This translation and precis of the Borrower's Report was made by the ICR author. The Borrower's Report is
a long document (of 196 pages) and is itself a condensed version of an earlier report by the Borrower of almost 500
pages.
- 37 -



(d)    to promote reforestation, with community participation, in critical areas of vulnerable forest land;
(e)    to strengthen the system of Protected Areas in the western part of Colombia;
(f)    to strengthen institutional capacity in planning and implementation of projects and in monitoring
and control of the use of natural resources; and
(g)    to strengthen research, technology transfer, training and education in environmental matters, with
emphasis on community participation.
8.5    The evaluation of the achievement of the objectives is closely related to the results of the
components and sub-components of the program, most of which were consistent with the targets. In some
sub-components and activities, the achievements were limited by several powerful restraining factors,
including for example the internal security problems of large parts of the country and budgetary restrictions
resulting from the fiscal crisis. On balance, program implementation was satisfactory and the objectives
were largely achieved.
8.6    Forest Policy and the National Forestry Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
Forestal - PNDF): the program supported the formulation of the Forest Policy (Politica de Bosques
(CONPES 2834 of 1996) and the PNDF approved by the National Environmental Committee (Consejo
Nacional Ambiental) in December 2000.
8.7    Agro-ecological Zoning of the Pacific Region: the basic biophysical and socioeconomic
information supported by thematic cartography was provided for the area as an instrument of
agro-ecological zoning, and was particularly useful in collective titling and the preparation of the Agenda
Pacifico XXI.
8.8    Collective Titling of Land to Indigenous and Afro-Colombian Communities: 58 titles were
provided, covering 2.38 million ha and benefiting 113,200 Afro-Colombian people in 22,100 families. A
further 2.54 million ha are in process. In indigenous people's reserves, 46 new reserves were established,
ten reserves were expanded, and the definition of boundaries of a further 126 reserves was achieved. A
total of 181 reserves now covers 2.06 million ha, benefiting 66,300 people in 12,100 families. Through
the Regional Committees coordinated via the Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad Social - RSS)
support was provided to the consolidation of organization of both Afro-Colombian and indigenous people
in the Pacific Region.
8.9    Recovery of Micro-Catchment Areas: the program promoted the recuperation of 176 catchment
areas in 123 municipalities and covering 20,000 ha.
8.10   Research and Environmental Monitoring: the program initiated research and monitoring on
both natural and planted forests of economic importance to the country.
8.11   Sustainable Management of Nine National Parks in the Pacific Region: the program
strengthened the institutional capacity to manage selected priority areas of high biodiversity, to preserve
unique eco-systems, promote the protection of natural resources, and to promote eco-tourism,
environmental education and community participation in management.
- 38 -



8.12   University-level Research and Education: under the program, improvements were made to the
curricula of Forest Programs, 168 degree-level students were trained, three educational modules were
published for training teachers in the incorporation of the environment in higher education, and 166
professional staff of the SINA were given diploma-level training. Investment were made in laboratory
facilities in three university teaching and research facilities.
8.13   Vocational Training: the program trained 1275 people in a wide range of vocational subjects, such
as the establishment of agro-forestry systems, nurseries, carpentry, accounting and marketing; implemented
seven community projects on natural resource management; and created a system of continued education
for extensionists.
Principal Factors that Affected the Outcome of the Project
8.14   Factors beyond the control of the Government: a number of sub-components (e.g., collective
titling, agro-ecological zoning) were dealing with issues where there was no prior experience in Colombia
to guide the implementation of the program. This was particularly the case with the environmental
monitoring of the Catival, Guandal and Naidi forests and with the collective titling of land to the black
communities where Colombia itself has been a pioneer. In the constitution of 1991, participation became a
fundamental right of all the population, and this was recognized most emphatically by the people of the
Choc6 region of the Pacific coast. However, the customs of these people did not permit rapid
decision-making conceming their role in the program and the program of work to be followed. In the case
of the environmental monitoring of the Choc6 and Narifio regions, a process requiring between 6-8 months
was necessary simply to decide if the communities would participate in the activities of the project.
Similar circumstances affected the implementation of the components of ecological zoning and collective
titling for indigenous and black communities.
8.15   The macro-economic policies adopted by the government towards the end of the 1990s to face up
to the world economic recession introduced budgetary restraints for central government entities and
therefore the programming of disbursements agreed for the NRMP could not be complied with. The policy
of the government at the end of the 1990s adopted to control the level of external indebtedness obliged the
DNP to request the cancellation of US$15,395,738 from the Loan. During 1994-1996 the resources
disbursed by the Bank were justified completely by the payments that the project executing agency made to
third parties which gave rise to a delay of about seven months in the rotation of funds through the Special
Account because of the large volume of information that had to be revised in the process of completing
disbursement requests. The US$2.0 million limit on the size of the Special Account proved a constraint.
The availability of resources was also affected by the exchange rate "loss" generated by the Bank's
treatment of the timing of the accounting entry of the exchange between pesos and the US dollar at the time
of making payments to third parties. This generated a "loss" of US$250,000 which could not be justified
as a cost, and thus reduced the real availability of the loan's funds.
8.16   The negotiations between the governments of Colombia and The Netherlands concerning the latter's
grant, and subsequently between the government of The Netherlands and the Bank for the administration of
the funds was somewhat drawn out and ended only in September 1996; the effect was to delay the
implementation of the Pacific Parks component by about two years.
8.17   Factors within the control of the national and local governments: the armed conflict that grew
during the 1990s affected areas that had previously been unaffected, such as the Pacific coastal region, and
this affected the program's implementation in multiple ways.
- 39 -



8.18   The lack of experience of the staff of the UC in the management of loans from multilateral banks
slowed implementation during the first two years, especially because the program had support from both
the IDB and the IBRD and because the program was complex and covered the whole of the national
territory. The UC was never able to reach the designed structure and size, which meant that a very large
effort had to be made by a reduced number of people.
8.19   The fiscal crisis intensified beginning in 1995; this affected the implementation of the program and
was reflected in reduced budgetary allocations and continuous cuts and delays. The crisis meant that
instruments designed as tools of administrative and fiscal efficiency (such as the Programa Anual de Caja
- PAC) ended up being used instead as mechanisms of control and budgetary restriction. In 1997, the
budgetary rules contained in the decree controlling the General Budget (Presupuesto General) obliged the
UC to adopt a mechanism of resolutions of budget distribution instead of the Convenios between the MMA
and the executing agencies. This caused delays because it meant that new financial regulations had to be
introduced and additional training had to be given to the executing agencies concerning the management of
financial resources and the preparation and maintenance of accounts.
8.20   The loan became effective in November 1994; the resources provided for implementation in that
full year could only begin to be spent in the first quarter of 1995. The program was erroneously classified
in the Budget Law for 1995 and this caused delays in expenditures. Resources could be committed only at
the end of 1995 for expenditure in 1996, and the cumulative delay in implementation was two years. The
finance available for the micro-catchment areas component was too large for the limited number of
executing agencies in the Pacific coastal area; this was resolved in 1997 with the addition of new executing
agencies in other parts of the country.
8.21   Colombian legislation provides that the resources of international loans must be included in the
General Budget Law (Ley de Presupuesto General de la Naci6n) and thus to use such funds requires that
the norms and procedures of the Estatuto Organico de Presupuesto Puiblico Nacional and those of the
multilateral institution concerned must be made compatible. As a result, the program was subject to the
labyrinthine complexities of the Colombian budget process; for example:
(a) because of the limitations imposed by the size of the PAC, on average only 39% of the budget
allocation for the program was actually made available in any given year, the balance was paid as a
priority in the following year together with the resources allocated in the budget of that year (which were,
of course, subject to the PAC restrictions);
(b) the Direcci6n del Tesoro Nacional needs at least three months to issue a certificate for any financial
resources returned unspent by executing agencies which impeded their use in other parts of the program
and forced the processing of new disbursement requests even while funds were technically still available;
(c) the Direcci6n General de Credito Publico requires one month to process a disbursement request and
issue the required authorization fro funds transfer. In addition, a series of procedures must be made with
the Direcci6n del Tesoro to actually achieve the physical payment of commitments, each taking about two
weeks.
8.22   Factors within the control of the executing agency: this includes the MMA as the executing
organization as well as the individual entities that were the executing agencies. At the central level, the
transfer of the program from the DNP to the MMA at the time when the latter was beginning to create its
technical structure made difficult the incorporation of the UC. Most of the executing agencies were CARs,
some of which were in the process of being created and others were modifying their structures in line with
-40 -



the Law 99 of 1993; their limited administrative and technical capacity required dedicated attention from
the UC. These agencies also had limited capabilities concerning budgetary management and accounting
which was exacerbated by the frequent change in staff which required continual retraining by the UC. The
processes of consultation with the base organizations and the communities generated considerable delays
which, for example, in the micro-catchment area component caused delays of six months.
Sustainability of the Program
8.23   Forestry Policy Component: Beginning with the formulation of the Forest Policy (CONPES
#2834) in 1996, the Consejo Nacional Ambiental approved the PNDF on December 5, 2000, the
objectives of which are to "to establish a strategic framework which actively incorporates the forest sector
into national development, optimizing comparative advantage and promoting the competitivity forest
products (timber and others) in both domestic and export markets, starting from the sustainable
management of both natural and planted forests". In pursuing this objective, it is expected that in 25 years
the Colombian forest sector will have been consolidated as a strategic part of the development of the
national economy.
8.24   Micro-catchment Area Component: To give continuity to the experience acquired through the
implementation of this component, the MMA has formed strategic alliances with many organizations and
local communities to implement the Plan Verde, the main objective of which is to promote the restoration
of degraded ecosystems through the establishment and maintenance of vegetation cover. The goal for 2002
is to achieve 100,000 ha of cover; however, the PNDF has been reformnulated with goals for the year 2007
of: (a) restoring 245,000 ha and establishing 271,000 ha of protective forest; and (b) establishing 332,000
ha of protective-productive forest.
8.25   Environmental Research Component: Projects advanced by CONIF and
CENICAFE-FEDERACAFE have been given priority in the research component of the Plan Verde and the
PNDF. The MMA and the implementing agencies have made a commitment to give continuity to five of
the research activities carried out under the program. The results of research on existing plantations have
been given to the MMA and the Ministry of Agriculture, and will be perrnanently up-dated by the CARs,
the SIAC, and others. The sustainability of forest management activities is guaranteed by the executing
agencies and communities, particularly CORANTIOQUIA. The efforts made by CORPONARINO and
CORPOURABA may be frustrated by a lack of resources, given the poor financial status of these bodies.
8.26   Ecological Zoning of the Pacific Component: This component was carried out to give the region
a development planning instrument. The information was given to the Instituto de Investigaciones
Ambientales del Pacifico and to the CARs of the region which will be responsible for the arrangements
with the relevant bodies (e.g., IGAC) for maintaining the information up-to-date.
8.27   Environmental Monitoring Component: This is one of the most important components of the
program, through which data was generated on forest use in three types of forest with the highest potential
for sustainable extractive use: the Cativales, Guandales and the Naidizales. The validation of this type of
informnation requires continuity over time, the MMA and CONIF (plus other agencies) have established the
Environmental Monitoring Network for Forest Use in the Pacific Forest Area. CONIF, CODECHOCO
and CORPONARINO have prepared second phases of these projects for inclusion in the project data base
of Planeaci6n Nacional; however, the financial status of these bodies is such that continuity is far from
assured, and firm support is needed from research institutions, SINA, the national govemment and
intemational technical cooperation to ensure continuity.
- 41 -



8.28   Collective Titling for Indigenous and Black Communities Component: Apart from their main
purpose, the collective titles exercise a powerful influence over the conservation of biodiversity and natural
resources of the region. The MMA has included in the "Colectivo Ambiental" project, the Environmental
Policy statement in the National Development Plan, and in the PNDF , support for the formulation of
management plans for the black and indigenous communities to ensure that the areas in question can
simultaneously be conserved and provide for the livelihood of the commnunities inhabiting them. INCORA
has formulated a proposal for sustainable production projects in the collectively-titled areas as well as to
finish the work in progress to increase by one million ha the area titled to black communities.
8.29   Regional Committees Component: The sustainability of this component lies in the consolidation
of the territorial rights of the ancestral ethnic groups, in the strengthening of their organizations, and in
their capacity to communicate with the authorities of the state.
8.30   Pacific Parks Component: This will enjoy continuity through the second phase that is currently
being negotiated between the Parks Unit and the government of The Netherlands in order to use the US$2.5
million unutilized under the program. It is also expected that the activities carried out under this
component will also receive resources in the framework of implementation of the new policies to strengthen
and consolidate the National Protected Areas System.
8.31   University-Level Education and Research Component: In addition to continuing with the
training of forestry technicians, the CINOC is evaluating the feasibility of implementing the cycle of
training in other municipalities of the department of Caldas. The Universidad Nacional (Medellin camnpus)
has terminated the training activities in Piedras Blancas but is studying the possibility of training forestry
technologists in other parts of the department of Antioquia. The Universidad Industrial de Santander, the
Universidad de Tolima, the Universidad Distrital Francisco Jose de Caldas, and the Universidad Javeriana
have all maintained the course developments achieved in recent years.
Performance of the Bank
8.32   Beginning with the presentation in the first International Round Table of the PAFC, the Bank
demonstrated its interest in financing part of it and this eventually was made concrete in the Natural
Resource Management Program, Loan No. 3692-CO. It is important to emphasize that from identification
through preparation, implementation and ex post evaluation the Bank has accompanied the process through
the different missions that helped to advance the program and to make the necessary adjustments. The
technical contributions made by different missions to sub-components A. 1, A.2, A.3, A.5, B. 1, D.3, and to
the whole of component C should be emphasized. In the case of agro-ecological zoning, in 1997 the Bank
supported the revision, adjustment and fine-tuning of the methodology as well as the whole scope of the
activity. Valuable support was also given in the forestry policy, environmental monitoring and forestry
research activities of the program. Special recognition is due to the interest shown by the Bank's missions
related to the collective titling of land for the indigenous and black communities, which support was
important in consolidating these processes.
Performance of the Borrower
8.33   The implementation of the program covered three periods of government and saw five Ministers of
Environment. The objectives of the program were maintained throughout this period, which responded to
the outlines of the National Environmental Policy. The MMA had to fund the program which included
some activities which, although environmental in nature, from a functional point of view were the
- 42 -



responsibility of other entities of the national government; this had the effect of directly influencing the
MMA's ability to fund certain activities that come directly under its responsibility. The Technical
Directorates of the MMA involved themselves in the implementation of the program and worked closely
with the UC.
Performance of the Implementing Agencies
8.34   The program had 33 implementing agencies, including nineteen CARs and Corporaciones de
Desarrollo Sostenible, three NGOs, eight public entities and three private companies. During the early
years of implementation, there was considerable weakness in the capacity to identify, formulate and
monitor projects, especially in the CARs, mainly because many of them were in the process of
consolidating their technical structures and functions. The problems were overcome through a process of
constant support from the UC and the MMA, and the interest which was maintained by the agencies in
improving their performance and complying with their obligations under the program should be
emphasized. In some of the entities, however, and in spite of the training given, there was a continuous
lack of compliance with the requirements concerning accounting and the preparation and use of the POA;
this had serious effects on implementation and compliance with contractual obligations. A significant
effort was made by the MMA and the UC, on the one hand, and by the executing agencies, on the other,
which resulted in the creation of an installed capacity that can be consolidated as the SINA matures.
-43 -



