Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6820
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT (NCDC I)
(CREDIT 871-IN)
June 10, 1987
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



lot          USX ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
04k. of Oveclar-Giwai
O - atinrs Ivalutto
June 10, 1i87
NEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India National Cooperative
Develoi,ment Corporation Proiect (NCDC I? (Credit 871-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on India National Cooperative Development Corporation Project
(NCDC I) (Credit 871-IN)" prepared by the National Cooperative Development
Corporation, together with an Overview prepared by the South Asia Regional
Office.  Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
Attachment
I This document ha a rstted distributon and may be used by scipIrts only in te perfoancem
of their oMic dutWs. Its contents may not oterwie be disloed without Wodd bnk auftoztion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT (NCDC I)
CREDIT 871-IN
T-Le of Contents
Page No.
Preface .  ..  9 .............. ..Is ........... . ....,  ......a.....   i
gasic Data Sheet .................   ii
evaluation mrr ........,,ii
OVERVIEW
- General        ......  .   ,..........................        .....    1
- Project Objectives and Rationale                         ..........    I
- Identification, Preparation and Appraisal                               2
- Project Implementation                                                  2
- Project Impact ...............9.99...99999999.9999999.5
- Financial and Economic Evaluation                                       7
- Institutional Performance and Development            .....              7
- IDA Supervision Efforts                          9
- Lessons Learned .9.9.9999999.9999999.9.99.99.....  . 0                  9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Background 9999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999        1
II.   Project Formulation         . .      ............... 9999999999999    6
III.  Implementation 9999999999999999999999999999999999999..*999.....   23
IV.   Impact Assessment .9999999.                    ............    67
V.    Conclusions      ...............                  ,                   87
Annexes I-XV
4nnex mIV  -   .r...nts Received from NCDC on IDAts Draft Report ........  127
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT (NCDC I)
(CREDIT 871-IN)
PREFACE
Attached is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the National Coopera-
tive Development Corporation Project (NCDC I) (Credit 871-IN). The Credit,
US$30 million equivalent, was made to the Government of India February 1979 for
onlending to NCDC. The planned Closing Date was December 31, 1984; the final
disbursement was made in June 1985.
The PCR was  prepared  by  NCDC,  the  executing  agency.   An overview
pro,iding additional comments was prepared by the South Asia Regional staff,
incorporating data from IDA  records.    This  report  has not been subjected to
audit by OED.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for their comments. The
comments by NCDC received from the Borrower are attached to the PCR as Annex
XVI, and their content has been taken into consideration in the final
preparation of the report.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPIIIUTl DtVISLOPIV -ORPORATION (CREDIT 87 1-1)
PROJECT COM)UETION RRPOW
Lasi Date Sh et
IR?: PRtOlECT D^AA
Actual or             Actual a X
Apprsiaal              estmated               of Appraisal
Esthete                  Actual                 Estiete
Total Project Coat (Rs Million)                 549.9                   586.9                   106.5
Va. of  odowna - ne                             ?,854                   5,573                    73.8
- rehabilitation                 1.100                     200                    18.2
Total Storage Capacities (00C tona)
- a"                            1.013                      830                    81.9
- rebabilitation                   so                       15                    18.6
Credit Mount (US$ Million)                         30                      30
Date Board Approval                             12/31/78                12/31/78
Dat ot Credit Agrezeant                         02/02/79                02/02/79
Data effectiveness                               5/3/79                  5/3/79
Closing Date                                    12/31/84                 12/31/84
financial RAte of Return                         16-211                  18-30X
Econooic Rate of Return                            222                    11-182
Number of Benetfiiaties                            5.7                      5.7
(ailliot ;mili*s)
CUIMUATIVE DISSRMEMPS
FY79    FM      EY8t   fY82    EY3    EU         E8
Appraisal Estihte  dS$ Million)        2.2     6.9   12.5   18.5    24.9    30.0         -
Aetual 1US$ Million)                      0     8.4    14.5    19.3    24.1    25.9    30.0
Actual as 2 of estimate                   0   121.7   116.0   104.3    96.8    86.3   100.0
Date of Final Disburtemnts 6/11/85
Principal Repaids  first repynt
due 6/15/1989
MISSION DATA
Date       No. of   Mandays in   Specialisrtions            tia          ypes of
Mission        t(Mouth/Year)   Persons  the field      Represented t/    Status       d      problems
Preparation
Mission           11/76         5          75             A.B.D
Appraisal            5/78         4          88             A.B.D
Supervision II      10/79         4          41            A.B.C.D            1        I         N
Supervision III      7/80          1        n/A _/            A               1        2
Supervision IV      11/80         4          20 _/          A.8.D             1        2         H
Supervision V       12/81          1         20 4/            B               1        2         M
Supervision VI       5/82          1         15 n/            A               2        2        H-O
Supervision VII      2/83         2          42 4/           A.g             2         2        M-O
Supervision VIII    11/83         2          38 4/           E.0             2         2        1-0
Supervision IX       5/84         2          26 p/           C C              2        1        N-0
Supervison Y        12/84          1         19 I/            A               I        1        M-0
Supervision XI       7/85         3          215/           E.E.a             1        2        M-0
1/  A sFinance     anAemoent
B   Cooperatives Specialist
C   Marketing Specialist
D g En5ineer
Z  Agro-Industrias Specialist
I   AS. Credit Specialiot
C AS. gconomist
H = Economist
2/ Supervision by NDW resident staff
3/  Combined uith MCDC II Appraisal
4/ Combined with MCDC II Supervision
51. Combined with NCDC II 6 III Supervision
OTER PROJECT DATA
Borrowers Gverornnt of India
Ezcuting Agency: National Cooperative Developeent Corporation (CDQC)
fiscal Year ot the Borrower: April 1 - March 31
NaMe of Currency (abbreviation)s Rupee (Re)
Currency Ezchange Rates:
Apprista  Report                        US$1.0O a  Re 8.60
Appraial Year Average                   US$1.00    R a  8.19
Intervening Years Average              US$1.00 a  Rs 8.84
Completion Year Average                 USS.00     Rs 11.36
follow up Projects$
NIet                         NCDC IS CeC  iSS
Credit No.s                 1146-IN          1502-IN
Credit Amount (SDR Mn)       102.8            210.2
Date  oard Apptovalt        5/21/81          6/19/84



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT (NCDC I)
(CREDIT 871-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The project was IDA's first direct attempt in India to assist the rural
cooperative sector broadly, although the Bank Group had previously provided
funding for farm credit and dairy projects which had also supported coopera-
tives. Indian models of development of agriculture - the Five Year Plans -
recognized the cooperative sector as a balancing factor between the private and
public sectors. The advent of Planning, with its moorings in democracy and
socialism, the emphasis on growth with social justice, and the adoption of a
socialistic pattern of society have added a new significance and positive role
tv cooperatives in supporting the farmer, the worker, the artisan and the
consumer. The democractic character of the movement, combined with its federal
structure in which an individual member of the primary society in a village
could draw support from a national level cooperative organization, renders the
movement an effective instrument for decentralized planning and implementation
of various economic activities by the people involved in these activities. It
has been the deliberate policy of the GOI to foster and develop a strong and
viable cooperative nucleus in every village of the country.
Oblectives
The physical objective of the Project was to construct godowns in 3
States - Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. However, the primary objectives,
according to the World Bank, were in institution building. First, the aim was
to make NCDC grow into a more effective and viable development institution.
Second, construction of godowns waw meant to promote a stronger cooperative
infrastr-Acture in rural areas. Godowns construction activity was selected
because of the urgent need to provide storage in rural a-eas for agricultural
inputs and outputs and the need for supporting the development of the cotpera-
tive sector. Other supporting components financed under the project were tech-
nical assistance, vehicles and engineering equipment. Total project cost was
estimated at US$63.9 million. The IDA credit was for US$30.0 million.
Implementation Experience
Physical targets were largely achieved, the main institutional objec-
tives were met, and the Credit was fully disbursed. As highlighted in the



- iv -
Overview, higher than expected cost escalations, aggravated by various delays,
necessitated a scaling down of the construction program in order to keep costs
within limits of allocated funds. Hence, in terms of storage capacity, only
about 80% of the total planned construction program was completed, varying
somewhat between the three project States--Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa.
NCDC, the prime onlending and executing agency, performed satisfac-
torily during project implementation, and its organization and staff was
considerably strengthened under the project. Institutionally, benefits also
accrued to the participating State Cooperative Banks, where the project intro-
duced appraisal and lending criteria that led to a greater emphasis on proper
appraisal of subprojects, borrower-cooperatives' credit-worthiness and general
credit discipline. However, loan recoveries from primary societies have been
mixed; they were low in Orissa, declining in Uttar Pradesh, but good in Haryana.
Results
The direct impact of the g&,owns on higher turnover of farm inputs,
mainly fertilizer and consumer goods, was far above the expectation at
appraisal. However, little use of the godowns was made for marketing and
storage of surplus farm producet except in Uttar Pradesh where primary coopera-
tive societies were involved in government grain procurement operations under
price support schemes. Incremental crop production resulting from investments
in godowns supplying fertilizer was difficult to quantify, although the benefits
must be significant. Similarly, indirect effects on income and employment of
the farming community could not be assessed. However, the economic rate of
return was recalculated at 18% for Haryana, 12% for Uttar Pradesh and 11% for
Orissa, which compares with the appraisal estimate of 22% for the total project.
The financial rate of return to a PCS owning a godown exceeded the SAR estimate
of 16%. Based on actu&' results it was recalculated at 30% in Haryana, 21% in
Uttar Pradesh and 18% in Orissa.
Sustainability
The prciect has not yet had a significant impact on improvement of
overall and financial management of the primary cooperative societies which is
constrained by the lack of adequate training. This is being remedied now under
the NCDC II and III follow-up projects. Such positive response to feedback of
information on performance constraints offers good prospect that project
achievements will be sustained.
Findings and Lessons
The series of projects has also brought out the need to give increased
attention to the overall administrative and business environment affecting
cooperatives and the type of direct government intervention in the operations of
cooperatives, all with a view to generating the commercial and managerial
autonomy needed for cooperatives to operate profitably on a sustained basis.



PROJECT COMPLETION RRYORT
INDIA NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT (NCDC I)
CREDIT 871-IN
OVERVIEW
General
i.      The attached Project Completion Report (PCR) on the NCDC I project
was prepared by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCD(),
the project executing agency. The overview, prepared by South Asia
Regional staff, is intended to aumuarize several observations, warranting
special reinforcement or points not fully covered in the draft PCR
prepared by NCDC.
ii.     The project was consistent with the government'  overall agricul-
tural development strategy. GOI had given a high priority to aking
inputs and credit readily available to farmers. A key element in this
strategy was the development of primary agricultural cooperative societieo
(PCS) into viable multipurpose societies, by amalgamating small PCS,
expanding their inputs supply package and. adding assembling and marketing
of farm produce, distribution of consumer goods and mobilization of
savings deposits to their existing functions of supplying credit and farm
inputs (mainly fertilizer).
Project Objectives and Rationale
iii.    The project objectives were sound and in keeping with agricultural
eeds and the government's development priorities. The objectives covered
two areas: institutional development and construction of godowns. The
first aim of institutional development was to make NCDC grow into a more
effective and viable development institution to serve the cooperative
sector, providing funds and technical assistance. The second aim was to
promote a stronger cooperative infrastructure in rural areas through
construction of godowus. It Was recognized that to handle agricultural
inputs and outputs more effectively it was essential for rural coopera-
tives to have a multifunctional storage facility at their disposal. Con-
sequently the project was to provide additional and improved storage
facilities to PCS and their marketing federations at village and larger
rural market level respectively, in three States (Haryana, Orissa and
Uttar Pradesh).
iv.     Cooperatives play an important supporting role in both production
and marketing in rural areas. The project was designed to improve condi-
tions for increasing production and improving marketing. Godown construc-
tion was selected because of the urgent need to provide storage in rural



-2-a
areas for agriciltural lnputs and otitputs and also to fa:ilitate the sale
of consumer goods by village level cooperatives, The simple design of the
project also facilitated its easy adoption in the States chosen for the
project.  The three States provided a representative picture of the vary-
ing level of cooperative development in India. Hatyana was high on the
scale of cooperative development, whereas Orissa was low, and Uttar
Pradesh (UP) in au intermediate stage of development. Finally, the
project supported IDA's strategy for assisting India in attaining
self-sufficiency in food production.
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
v.      The project which was appraised in May 1978, was IDA's first
direct attempt to assist the rural cooperative sector broadly, although
the Bank Group had provided funding for farm credit and dairy projects
which had also supported cooperatives. From the outset, IDA focussed on
institutional matters. An IDA mission which visited India in
October/November 1976, concluded that with changes in NCDC's corporate
structure and procedures as outlined fi its report (April 1977) NCDC would
be a suitable institution for onlending to the cooperative sector. Sub-
sequently, NCDC engaged the Management Development Institution of India
(MDI) in 1978 and following their recommendations introduced a number of
changes in organization, management and procedures.
vi.     The appraisal mission, by and large, focussed on the right issues
(institutional matters, credit delivery system, lending policies and
procedures, and technical aspects). While it accqpted the scope and size
of the original project proposed by NCDC, it did not accept NCDC's
proposal to include the State of Rajasthan in addition to Haryana. Orissa
and UP. The mission maintained (in retrospect, probably correctly given
execution delays which occurred anyway) that the first project should be
conceptually and technically simple and not be geographically diffused. 1/
Project Implementation
vii.    On the whole, impgementation was successful although physical
targets had to be scaled down because of higher cost ascalations than
expected. The table below shows that in terms of new storage capacity 82%
of total project targets were achieved. In the three States the marketing
federations progressed much faster with their construction program than
the PCS. In Haryana and UP, some godowns with 100 ton capacity were
constructed instead of the planned 50 tons cap'city units because of
1/ The project was followed on with two IDA projects, NCDC II and
NCDC III, for SDR 101.8 M and SDR 210.2 M respectively.



-3-
expanded business activity. The rehabilitation programs in Orissa had to
be reduced to 200 godowns from the 1,100 planned at appraisal due to much
lower than expected demand for rehabilitating existing godown facilities,
Generally, the quality of construction of rural and marketing godowns was
good and the designs chosen proved to be practical and functional.
CONSTRUCTION TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
-O-R STart         =eh        q          on               5       Tota Aehiiredn            4    L
No. of     Total      'is            TOWoa  Capaity   No. of                     Total       Total CapacItY
"doomu   GCpacity    Godmw          Capacjty      Achieed a        Godowne    Capacity        acuhe   e
(000 ton)                (000 tose)       of TaSret                  (000 tons)    X of Tagoet
Fexdeatiom  (AM)                  70       214             57       185              86.4             57        185              86.4
1050         125           86           6             68.8            945          95             76.0
1.570       339            918        271             79.9            002
Utter Pradeab
Federation (P10) 2/              35         50             18         SQ            100.0             18         30             100.0
PCs                           4.600        410         3.           348                                        M3               84.9
4.635        460         3396        8M.                             .586         398             86.
Orisan
federation (OSYVcN  3/            23        20             19         20            100.0              9         20            100.0
TDOC C                             6         10             5          7             70.0              10        10            100.0
R a8                            280         80           192         53              66.3            198         55             68.7
PCS                           1.040        104           710         63              60.6            758         67             6_4*
1.349        21',          926        143             66.8             985       152            _71.0
Total NoW Godo4na             7,554      1.013         5.430        812              80.2          5.573        830            81.9
Z=U=u      axtu"         SUESUM       Sama              aa           "Un      -                   ns=
Of WIbiab: Rural Godowns      7.140        639         5.139        497              77.8          5.227        S10            79.8
Marketing Godowns   414         374           291        315             84.2             302       320             85.6
g!o4do Rkhabilitation
Orissa (PCs)                  1.100         80            200         15             18.2            200        15              18.2
#|l~m                  mum         -                -sS mut _
1/  artyama State Cooperative Supply a"d Harketin8 Federation.
/  Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Marketing Federation.
O/ Oriasa State Cooperative Marketing Federation.
4/ Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation.
Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies.
6/  As per supplemental information provided by  4CDC.



-4-.
viii.   By and large, the delay in construction was due principally to the
financing strain of covering significant cost escalation of building
materials, aggravated by managerial and administrative start-up delays,
lengthy sub-loan processing procedures and difficult and, in some cases,
inappropriate procurement procedures. Cost escalations occurred almost
immediately after appraisal and continued throughout the proj'ct period.
Unit costs of !00 ton godowns in Haryana increased from the base cost (per
SAR estimate) of Rs 58,000 to Rs 96,000 by September 1982 (i.e. an
overall increase of 65.5% over SAR base cost). Similar increases were
recorded in Uttar Pradesh and Orissa, Price contingencies provided in the
project (17% over base costs) were insufficient to cover these increases.
ix.     The underlying reasons for increases in construction costs were:
(a)  higher prices of cement and steel due to shortage and
international price hikes; 1/
(b)  higher prices of bricks due to greater demand and reduced
supply 1/; decreased brick production had been due to shortage of
coal arising from nationwide transport problems: and
(c) varying distances of the brick kilns from construction sites,
necessitating higher transport costs than estimated in the SAR,
Shortages of cement were particularly severe and continued to plague
project implementation in all the three project States. NCDC played a
critical role by intervening at various Government levels to get favorable
allocations of building materials for the project.
X.      While some of the causes for cost increases can be traced to
conditions after time of appraisal, it would appear that the appraisal
mission should have been more careful in determining price contingencies.
Cost escalations were reported in the first supervision mission. March
1979, three months after Board approval.
xi.     Problems related to cost escalation were exacerbated by start-up
delays due to institutional weaknesses. Staffing problems caused delays
in subproject appraisal and approval and in tendering, especially during
the early part of the project.  While project authorities in Haryana and
Uttar Pradesh were able to establish proper procedures to complete the
reduced construction program by mid-1985, the institutions in Orissa
1/ From January 1979 to January 1985 prices of cement in US$ increased
by 93%, steel by 422, bricks by 84% and skilled labor by 1002 (PCR
paras 3.27, 3.28).



-5-
proved unable to introduce changes to complete their reduced program by
project closing.
xii.     Lengthy sub-lcan procedures and reappraisal of subprojects caused
excessive delays and contributed to the rapid rise in costs. In early
1983. an IDA supervision mission suggested that to avoid re-appraisal of
subprojects, sensitivity analyses should be applied to evaluate the impact
of higher costs on the viability of rural godowns. Sensitivity analyses
combined with streamlined sub-loan processing. procedures would have helped
cut down preparation time and high costs.
xiii.  implementation delays were also caused by inadeqtate flexi.bility
in adherence to prevailing procurement procedures. especially in remote
areas and in areas with large ongoing irrigation and industrial works.
Tenders often had to be recalled because of insufficient response or
because bids were above the fixed ceiling. IDA objected to awarding
contracts to labor and construction societies or to state agencies without
competitive bidding procedures. IDA later agreed that in the event of an
unsuccessful tender or in cases where no response could be expected, the
PCS could be allowed to build the godowns themselves or under a labor
contract. In these cases supervision and supply of materials were to be
provided by the SCBs.
xiv.    Tihe PCR mentions (paras 3.54-3.55) that strict application of the
project approach" caused delays in some cases. This was because a comr
piete loan application, accompanied by financial projections and other
necessary documentation, was required for each subproject. even for small
rural godowns. Although the PCR recognizes the advantage of the proj ect
approach, it indicates that the suggestion discussed with an IDA review
mission to require detailed loan applications only from 10 of the
societies and a shorter version from the rest, might have been useful.
IDA. however, took the position that not only should the viability of the
cooperative be taken into account, but also the feasibility of the opera-
tions after a godown was constructed and that a full appraisal of each
subproject was considered to be essential. IDA agreed that NCDC would
review on a sample basis 10% of the loan applications.
Project IJact
xv.    Looking to stimulate growth in the rural ec nomy, GOI officials
felt that a rural cooperative with a godown would be better suited to
service the needs of farmers than one without a godown. 1/ The SAR
envisaged that the availability of godowns would have an 0xpansionary
1/ The equally important project objective of strengthening the perfozzance
of the cooperative finance institutions is discussed in paras xxxiii to
zxxvi.



-6-
impact on credit as well as on non-credit business of the societies and
would also have various indirect benefits.
Zvi,    The impact of rural godowns are at three levels:  The first-order
impact is the direct impact which enables societies with rural godowns to
channel credits to members, to undertake the supply of agro-inputs and
consumer goods in rurAl areas, to act as procurement agency for apex
marketing federations and for the Food Corporation of India (FCI), to
assist farmers in marketing their surplus produce, and to function as a
service center for village community development. the second-order impact
is the incremental crop production resulting from the first-order impact.
While undoubtedly large, this impact is somewhat difficult to quantify
reliably because agricultural production is dependent also on various
other factors such as weather, extension and research and prices. The
third-order impact which is the positive effect on income and employment,
both direct and indirect, is equally difficult to measure.
xvii.   NCDC's Evaluation Division has carried out numerous studies on the
basis of random sampling in the three States to assess the first order
impact. The results, summarized in the PCR (paras 4.10 to 4.24 and
Annex IV), illustrate that credit as well as non-credit business of the
sampled 2CS had increased considerably in all States. SAR projections for
project year 5 for total turnover of the cooperatives in the three States
together were Rs 320 M for fertilizers, Rs 950 M for farm produce and
Rs 400 M for consumer goods, This compares to actual turnovers of
Rs 1,017 M, Rs 1,223 M and Rs 2,013 M respectively (PCR paras 4.26-4.30
and Annex VI), which exceeds appraisal projections significantly.
However, except in UP, where PCS were involved in grain procurement under
goverument price support operations, little use of the godowns was made
for marketing and storage of surplus farm produce. In Haryana farAers can
only sell surplus grain at regulated markets at which the Haryana State
Marketing Federation (HAZED) is a buyer for the State Government and for
FCI. Moreover, the studies indicate that fawmers preferred to sell their
grain at regulated markets rather than using PCS for marketing and storage
because PCS could not offer adequate liquidity at the time of harvest and
storage was not profitable because of the uniform support price for the
whole season fixed by the Government.
xviii. NCDC's Evaluation Division is now taking steps to collect data in
order to carry out studies on the second and third-order impact of storage
investments. Although incremental crop production is not quantified in
the iCR, it can probably be assumed that, based on the fact that incremen-
tal fertilizer distribution through project godowns is far above SAR
projections, the net value of additional crops in the three States also
exceeds expectations at appraisal.



-7-
xix.    Direct employment effects (manager, storekeepers and watchmen)
were lower than expected in the SAR, because the number of godownt co-r
structed fell about 2,000 short of the target of 7,554. No attempt was
made in the kCR to estimate indirect employment and income effects
(third-order impact) ao a result of higher crop production.
Financial and Economic Evaluation
xx.     In estimating the Financial Rate of Return (ERR) of a godown, the
SAR took into account the entire business of the PCSD including the
forecasted expansion as a result of the new godown. Conservatively, the
FRR was computed for a model in Haryana where costs were higher than in UP
and Orissa. Based on this methodology the ERR for a society's investment
in a godown was estimated at 16X in the SA. Using a similar methodology
the PCR recalculated the FRR on the basis of a sample of 33 societies in
Haryana, 142 in Uttar Pradesh and 21 in Orissa. On this basis, the FRR
was 301 in Haryana, 21X in Uttar Pradesh and 18 in Orissa.
xxi,    For calculation of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR), the SAR took
into account two primary benefits: (i) reduction in storage losses,
expected to be about 21 of the value of farm produce and fertilizer
handled by the societies; (ii) savings in transport costs as a result of
the availability of godowns in the vicinity of the farms, also estimated
to be 21 of farm inputs and outputs. On this basis, and taking into
account project investment costs and incremental operating costs of
godowns, the SAR estimated the ERR at 221. To re-compute the ERR, NCDC
carried out some empirical studies to assess (i) reduction in storage
losses with societies in Haryana and in Uttar Pradeah; and (ii) savings in
transport costs as a result of godovns in two distri'ots in Orissa. Based
on these studies, NCDC concluded that reduction in storage losses was
close to the 21 assumed at appraisal and also tnat savings in transport
costs were equal to 2% of the total value of fertilizer and agricultural
produce handled by the PCS. Applying these coefficients and taking into
account project investments and incremental operating costs. the updated
ERR was estimated at 182 in Haryana, 122 in Uttar Pradesh and 11X in
Orissa.
xxii.   NCDC also recalculated the number of farm families benefitting
from the godowns at 5.7 M which is similar to the figure estimated at
appraisal.
Institutional Performance and Development
xxxiii. The principal institutional changes introduced as a result of the
project were the following:



-8-
(a) Restructuring and strengthening various departments in NCDC,
setting up the Organization and Methods Department and upgrading
NCDC's zonal offices;
(b) Using the three State Cooperative Banks as onlending channels for
the first time, and allowing NCDC to emphasize improvements in
subproject preparaVion, appraisal and implementation, including
engineering and supervision of godown construction;
(c) Supporting participating entities with consultants, improved
accounting and management information systems and new operational
manuals;
xxiii. The PVC notes that significant "institutional" benefits accrued to
NCDC and SCB through the implementation of the project. Very early in the
project period (February 1979) the NCDC Board approved a major reorganiza-
tion of its staff and zonal-offices, as envisaged in the SAR, which was
subsequently implemented. NCDC also used consultancy services judiciously
in institutional reorganization. staff training and setting up a manage-
ment information system. In 1981, NCDC created an Evaluation Cell to
undertake project monitoring and evaluation, and in 1982 it established
the Evaluation and Statistics Division. In addition to project monitor-
ing, the Division undertook a variety of evaluation studies which provided
a very useful feedback on overall operations of NCDC and externally aided
projects in the cooperative sector. Overall, therefore, the project
objectives regarding strengthening of NCDC were met, NCDC played an
instrumental role in expediting subproject preparation, appraisals and
approvals of financing requirements.
xxiv.   Use of consultants by the three SCBs produced somewhat mixed
results. In starting the actual studies. there were initial delays in
appointment of consultants by all the three States. Haryana did not
formally appoint consultants until the end of 1980 (i.e., more than
18 months after effectiveness). There was also reluctance on the part of
all the three SCBs to appoint counterpart bank staff to work with the
consultants. With regard to the consultants' recommendations, those for
SCBs in Orissa and UP were judged to be satisfactory and acceptable, but
this was not the case for Haryana. In June 1982, following discussions
w Zh the IDA supervision mission, the consultants (Agriculture Finance
Cc Roration of India) agreed to assign more specialists and to revise
their recommendations. Because of these problems, the June 1982 supervi-
sion mission reported that "benefits anticipated from this component might
not materialize to the extent envisaged at appraisal, because of the lack
of enthusiasm on the part of NCDC and the participating banks and their
reluctance and inability to assign counterpart staff to work with the
consultants' staff during the investigation."



-9.-
XXv.    However, overall the three participating banks did derive benefits
as a result of the project in spite- of problems encountered on the effec-
tive use of consultants. Not only were the banks' engineering staff
strengthened, but also the project introduced appraisal and lending
criteria which eventually led to a greater emphasis by the banks on proper
appraisals of borrower-societies' credit-worthiness, expected teturns from
investments and general credit discipline than in the past. Intervention
of NCDC in this process established a fruitful relationship for onlending
in the cooperative sector. However, recovery performance of SCBs for the
long term construction loans to PCS declined with the increasing numbers
of repayments falling due. Cmpared to the figures in the PCR (pars 4.41)
for December 12, 1984, recoveries in Orissa as of May 31, 1985 were 42
only from PCS, 302 from Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies (RCWS).
whereas they bad remained 1001 for the State Marketing Federation (OSa4P)
and the Tribal Development Corporation (UTDCC), The average recovery rate
for total demand in Orissa stood at 391. Comparative average recovery
rates as of that date were 991 for Haryana and 671 for Uttar Pradesh, the
latter being a decline from the 97S figure given in the PCR for December
1984. NCDC urged SGBs to take steps to improve or regain earlier recovery
performance. Future supervision missions in the NCDC follow-up projects.
will check on the results of these efforts.
xxvi. The project has not yet had a significant impact on improvement of
financial management of PCSs nor on their overall management effective-
ness. Lack of trained manpower, particularly qualified managers. was a
key constraint in the cooperatives. Under the NCDC II and NCDC III
projects extensive training programs for PCS staff are being implemented,
which also cover the three project States assisted under NCDC I.
IDA Supervision Efforts
xxvii.   IDA supervision was satisfactory throughout the project period.
Between project effectiveness and closing, IDA undertook 11 supervision
missions, averaging at six monti' intervals. There was fairly good con-
tinuity in supervision staffing. More importantly, 1'--ever, the supervi-
sion missions focussed on key issues adequately and measures were recom-
mended to accelerate construction of godowns.
Lessons Learned
xxviii. The project experiences highlight the critical importance of
proper attention to institutional aspects-staffing, organizational arran-
gements, appropriateness of procedures etc.-project implementation.
Execution delays and project shortfalls in terms of physical achievements
were reflections of weaknesses which were encountered in these areas.
Fortunately, timely corrective action allowed the project to still meet
overall success. The project experiences illustrate that training should
have been emphasized more from the outset. With proper attention given to



-10-
training needs at all levels of the cooperative structure, including NCDC
and the participating banks, management problems might bave been less
serious during project implementation.
xxix.   Implementation results of this project and experiences to date
under the follow-up NCDC II and III projects suggest that, in future
project appraisals and P :udies of the cooperative sector. the overall
regulatory and policy framework for the operations of cooperatives should
be esamined closely to help ensure that cooperatives could operate
profitably along commercial lines with minimal direct public sector inter-
vention or control over decisionr-making.
m.0   Finally. the project shows the importance of the monitoring and
evaluation system in terms of improving the quality of investments and
of the assistance provided by cooperative banks.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
(Credit 871-IN)
March 30, 1985
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(EVALUATION DIVISION)
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,
4, Siri Institutional Area, Hauz Thas,
NEW DELHI - 110016



ABBRBVIATIONS
ARDC    -    Agricultural Refinance Credit Corporation
CWC     -    Central Warehousing Corporation
DCB     -    District Central Cooperative Bank
FCI     -    Food Corporation of India
GOI     -    Government of India
GOS     -    Government of State
HAEED   -    Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation
IDA     -    International Development Association
IDC     -    Indian Dairy Corporation
IFFCO   -    Indian Farmers' Fertiliser Cooperative Limited
MDI     -    Management Development Institute of India
NABARD  -    National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development
NDDB    -    National Dairy Development Board
NCDC    -    National Cooperative Development Corporation
OSCMF   -    Orissa State Cooperative Marketing Federation
PCC     -    Project Coordination Committee
PCF     -    Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Marketing Federation
PCS     -    Primary Cooperative Societies (also known as Mini Bank, PACS
and LAMPS)
RBI     -    Reserve Bank of India
RCMS    -    Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies
RCS     -    Registrar of Cooperative Societies
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
SCB     -    State Cooperative Banks
SWC     -    State Warehousing Corporation
TDCC    -    Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation
PMS     -    Primary Marketing Society



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units are used.
1 kllogram (kg)                   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             = 1,f)OO kg = 0X98 long ton
1 quintal.                     = 10C kg
1 meter (m)                       1 1,09 yards
1 kilometer (km)               = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                 = 2.47 acres
1 sauare kilometer (km2)       u 0,386 square miles
1 lakh     .                      100°000
10 lakhs                       = 1 'illion
100 lakhs                          Icrore



PRlOJECT COiPLETION REeORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COUPEATIVE Dr,VWIOPI 2JT C(RPORATIGN PROJECT
(CREDIT 071 - IN)
TABLU OF CCU4iTS
Page Nog
I e BAC.KGROUND                                       1
II. PROJECT F0ORLiULI'iUN                             6
III, IMPLIWI;TATIuN                                   23
IV. IMVPACT A.LJ,;,iIENT                              67
V. CUNCLUSIUNS                                       07
l. Agricultural Production, Fertiliser use and
Storage Capacity in Project States.
2. Amoubt Released unwaor NUDC-I (IDA) Cooperative
Storage Project and year-wise Expenditure by
ProJect States.
3. Financial Indicators of State Cooperative Banks,
4. Diversification of Business Turnover of Sampled
Societies (Evaluation Data).
5. Business Turnover of Sam led Societies.
(Project 6tateel Studies)
6. Business Turnover of all PACS in t.he Project S.pates
7. Income# Expenditure, Profit/Loss, Cash Flow and
Financial Rate of Return of Sampled Societies in
Project states.,
b0 Reduction in Storage Losses Haryana.
9. Economic Rtate of Return of Sampled Societies in
Project States.
10 Percentage capacity utilisation of Marketing godowns.
11, Business Turnover of state Marketing Federations,
120 Annual Profit/Loss of state Marketing Federations.
13. Percentage Capacity Utilisation of RCMS Godoins in Orissa.
14'o Business Turnover of RoC.L.S.
15. Business Turnover of Orissa State Tribal Development
Cooperative Corporation,



INDIA
NATIONAL C0OP! AITIV& DL±1VEiOaUNT CORi-ORATION (NCDC-I) PROJCT
CREDIT 871-IN
PROJECT COK.PLETION REPORT
lo9 BACsGFI,OUND
Introduction
1,01      The NCDC-I Wbrld Bank Cooperative Storage was appraised
in lay-June, 1978X, became effective in February#1979 and reached
completion on 31st December,1984, The Project was formulated
and designed to strengthen the institutional framework responsible
for promoting and finrancing development of cooperatives, particu-
larly viillage level multipurpose cooperative societies and help
NCI)C and State Cooperative Bdriks to introduce a more disciplined,
project-oriented approach to finncing  xlnsic (storage) facilities
.for villaige cooperative. societieup regional ma;keting cooperatives
and  Jtate-level cooporative feder;itionse
1.02      The successful formulation and implementation of NCDC-I
Project has spawned NCDC-II and NCDC-III Projects wihich include,
interalia, cooperative storage component for uieeting the unsatisfied
storage demands of the States. The lessons and experience of
NCDC-I have been of immense value in improving procedures,
methods ancd 3ystems, institutions and implementation of subsequent
projects.
Genesis of the Project
1.03      The development of agriculture has been the main theme
of India's Five Years Plan after independenceo Agricultural sector
provides livelihood to 60% a' the total working force, contributes
nearly 40% of the net national product and accounts for 35% of the
country's exports. In the models of development of agriculture,
the Five Year Plans recoganised the cooperative sector as a
balancing factor between the privwate and public sector. The advent
of PlanninL[ with its moorings in democracy and socialism the
thrust on growth with social jtustice and adoption of socialistic
pattern of socioty have added a new significance.and positive role
to cooperatives in supporting the farmer, the worker, the artisan
and the counsumere The democractic character of the movement
combined with its federal struci;ure in which an individual member
of the primary society in a village could draw support from a



-2-
national level cooperative organisation, renders the movement
an effective instrument for decentralised planning and imple-
mentation of various economic activities by the people involved
in these activities. Cooperatives offer a countervailing force
against the exploitative propensities that develop in the
economy, and thus protect and promote the interest of the weaker
sections. It has been the deliberate policy of the GOI to
foster and develop strong and viable cooperative nucleus- in every
-village of the country radiating a Vast net-work of services to
the fna.-mers.
1.04   There are 2.88 lakhs cooperative societies in the country
with a total membership of 115 millions. A wide range of
economic activities have been organised on cooperative basis.
These include rural credit, supoly of inputs and services for
agriculture, agro-based cottage and small industries, creation
of economic infrastructure for processing, storage and marketing
of agricultural and minor forest produce, animal husbandry, dairy
and fisheries, construction labour, housing and public distribution
system. Recent years have witnessed successful diversification
of activities of cooperatives including- fertiliser manufacture.
1.05   The total agricultutal credit disbursed by the coopera-
tives increased from Rs.2140 millions in 1960-61 to nearly
Rs.29000 millions in 1983-84. The value of agriculzural produce
marketed by cooperatives during 1983-84 was over Rs.24000 millions
as against Rs.1690 millions in 1960-61. In the distribution of
fertilisers, cooperative have crossed the mark of 3.3 million
tonnes of NPK during 1983-84 accounting for nearly 44% of the
distribution of fertilisers in the country. The cooperatives
have a emerged as a major sector in the sugar industry
accounting for 55% of national production of sugar. In dairy
programme of 'Operational Flood', cooperatives are playing a
significant role. The Indian Parmers Fertiliser Cooperative
Ltd. (IPFPCO) accounts for 14% nitrogenous fertiliser production
and 29% of phosphatic fertiliser production in the country.
Rationale
Rural Godowns
1l06   The dimension, depth and sweep of the cooperative sector
in India should not lead us to the conclusion that all is well and
quiet on the cooperative front. The cooperative movement for a
long time at the village level had a pre-dominantly structure
designed to relieve rural indebtedness and provide the agriculturists



with cheap and timely finance. However, it only touched the fringe
of the problems of agricultural credit and left other problems of
production, marketing distribution, storage of agricultural commodoities
mostly outside its ambit of operating. It was felt that the village
cooperative society should ensure increased agricultural production,
employment and income to the community in the village and bring
about efficiency in management of the cooperatives,  With this end
In view the Government have re-org-anised the Primary Agriciltural
Credit Societies to form into economically viable and managerially
efficient units, capable of providing credit, supplies and services
to the farmers.  The programme envioaged for a society a minimum
business of short term loans of Rs.2.00 lakhs, coverage of gross
cropped area of 2,000 hectares, grouping of villages within a radius
of 10 kms and appointment of a full time Secretary and construction
of godown-cum-office for the villace society.
1.07      The rationale of rural and marketing godowns is der.Vative
of the basic hypothesis that a cooperative entity operating at'
villacre, mandi, district and state level will be more efficient in
the performance of its activities than a cooperative entity without
a godown. The GOI emphasis on institutionalisation of distribution
of inputs and marketing of outruts for the benefit of rural
producers has given an impetus to cooperative storage programme.
The Cooperative storage is regarded as an essential adjunct to
cooperative marketing and a supply of agricultural inputs. In
order that the Primary Credit Societies satisfy all the needs and
services required by the farmers, it is absolutely essential for
each of the societies to have a captive nultifunctional rural godown
at its disposal. The model of development of village societies should
be akin to the model of development of cooperative societies in
Japan which have developed village cooperative as a single contact
point by all the agricultural members for the services needed by them,
1.08    The integration of credit, agricultural production and
distribution functions at the grass root level reauires the develop-
ment of viable, autonomous, self-reliant and democratic cooperative
enclaves responsive to the needs of the farmers, Th.is structural
transformation of the village economy could not be broughtabout
without giving village credit societies concrete physical identities.
The village societies could not be allowed to continue to exist in
'Registers'. Rural Storage godowns are thus important entries in
the cooperative matrix of the village economy. They serve as an --
instrument of democratic planning, medium for the regeneration of
the country's socio-economic life, provide physical identities to
thd village'society, serve as a vehicle for the realisation of hopes
and aspirations of the farmers and rpllylng.plateform for their
economic strength besides creating vidble marketing channels for
inputs and outputs. The rural storage godowns are rightly regarded
as growth centres for the economic, social and cultural uplift of-
the rural community. They are missing infrastructurals par
excellence for the economic growth of the village economy.



-4-
Mark-etin_ Godowns
1o09         The marketing goclowvns 1have the same importance to the
Malketing Societies and Apex Eederations as rural godowns to
villiage societies.  The marketint, of agricultural pruduce is a
crucial link in the network of services required by the farmers,
The concept of term 'marketinrg' lhas widened recently, The marketing
does not tantamount to merely purclase and sale of goods but
covers a large spectrum of services involved in bringing the goods
from the producers to the consumurz, Marketing begins at the
farmers' fieldo It inicludes iall such activities as (i) collection
of uurpluse3 from the inriividLuul Irmor's; (ii) transport to the
nearest assembling centre; (iii)grading and standardlsation;
(iv) pooling; (v) proceo;siig; (vi) stock.ng; (vii) packing;
(viii) transport to the cOnSuming centre; (ix) bringing the
buyers and sellers to6ether and (x) sale to the ultimate cornsumer,
1.10         The flow of agricultural output is discontinuous,
being concentrated during certain periods whereas the consumption of
agricultural produce is continuous necessitating stocking after
the harvest and relea&wng in a regulated manner throughout the year.
lell         The problems of the marketing are also compounded due,
to exiztence of a vast number of small and marginal farmets
gener.lly ill-orgarnised, i.Lliterate, sunk in indebtedness and at
the mercy of a handful of middlemen and traders who are well-
organised horizontally and vertically. In this unequal economic
conflict between the famers and the traders, cooperative marketing
not only strengthens the position of the farmers viz-a-viz the
traders but helps in the integration of marketing and production
operations# Strong and viable cooper;ative marketing so :icties capa-
ble of performing all the functions covereC under rho term
'marketing' and operating at the mandit district end State level
can provide sufficient counteracting bargaining power to the
farmers to compete w'th the tracLers, In the past, it lhas been
experienced that lack of godowms has been one of the constraining
factors in inhibiting the growth of cooperative marketing in
the coutntry.
1.12         Moreover, the marleting societies have been called
upon by the State Governments and the Central Government to perform
diverse functions like storc.ge and distribution of fertilisers,
Improved seeds and pesticides which have to be stocked at vantage
points near to the place of consumption so that famers are assured
of obtaining adequate quantities at the time they are needed,
The green revolution has manifested itself in spectacular increase
in production of food-grains resulting in heavy arrivals in the
terminal markets, many of which are not able to cope with the gluts,
necessitating stocking at mandi, district and State level,-
113         The cooperatives are playing significant role in the
procurement of foodgrains and undertaking market support operations.
At the apex lcvel, State Ilarketing Federations act as the agents of
the national agencies like F.C.I.  NAFED etc. for the procurement of
foodgrains-and other commodities like potato and oni±ca, However, the
State Marketing Federations operate through the Primary Marketing



-5 -
societies which have been established- in all the wholesale
assembling markets. Thus, the State Marketing Federatiojs
and Primary Marketing Societies need marketing godowns in
order to fulfil their obligations.
Speci-fic E-conomic Criteria
1.14      The cooperative storage godowna confer ce:.taiin
direct and indirect benefits to the society in general
and the farmers in particular. In the language of benefit
cost analysis, the benefits are in the shape of an increase
in the aggregate consum'tion which emanates from the
operation of the project over a period of time. The practice
of treating consumption as the unit of account is largely a
result of practical significance of aggregate consumption
vis-a-vis other objectives. The consumption benefits flow
from the increase in the reial income of the mmbers of the
society.
1.15      Cooperative storage godowns are real, tangible
and durable assets of the economy giving a long stream of
benefits over the economic life of the.godowns. They add
to the nation's wealth and capital. Beingr instruments of
production (services), they yield returns to the farmers in
many forms, some of which are discussed below:-
1.16      It is well known fact that substantial quantity
of agricultural produce during! post-harvest period is being
wasted in the country due to iack of proper and scientific
storage facilitieso The quantity of losa of foodgrains in
unscientific storage is est4imated at 6.5% which is reduced
to 1% in proper storage. Moreover, unscientific storage
results in. qualitative deterioration. of the produco. A study
based on sample survey has revealed that in unscientific
storage, 50%6 of the samples were found to be unfit for human
consumption even the remaining samples had suffered heavy
lo&se3 in commercial value. On the most conservative estimates,
it has been estimated that on account of unscientific storage,
qualitative losses could be put at around 10% in value and
quantitative losses at 5.5%.
1.17      Another quantifiable benefit of storage godowns
is savings in transport cost on accomt of bulk deliveries
of inputs anid bulk collection of farm produce, These benefit&'
would result from a switch from the use of bullock carts
used for small loads to the motor transport that would be
justified by larger volumes. Storage godowns bring
economies of scale resulting in reduction in overhead costs,
1.8s      In the absence of storage facilities near the
villages, the small and marginal farmers are forced to
resort to distress sales after the hamest thus depriving
themeselves of securing remunerative prices for their produce.



4-6
Rural godownas at the village level and marketing godoans at
the mandi and district level enable the farmers to store.
their produce after the harvest and sell during the lean
season at remunerative prices. This will lead to re-distri-
bution of income from traders and middlemen to small and
marginal farmers. Such re-distribution of income will
subserve the goals of ecquity, In technical term, money is
transferred from persons who have comparatively lower
marginal utility of money to those who have high marginal
utility of money resulting in addition to the overall
benefits to the society.
1.19        The cooperative storage facilities also perform
the job of buffer ste 'ting, i.e. of dempening the fluctuation
in inter and intra-sexonal prices and ensuring better returns
to thtprimary producers w' ilout adversely affecting the
interests of the consumers, The marketing functions such as
assembling, gradiny, pooling, processing, financing; insidriig,
standardising, sale, transportation and exportt can be performed
more efficiently with the stor.age facilities at the disposal
of the societies and Pederations. the net effect of storage
facilities would be an increase in the income of the farmers.
1,20        Thus, the economic rationale of cooperative
storage godowns stems from the economies of ical,; `rdd%ction
in quantitative and aualitative losses, savings in transport
cost, increase in real income of the farmers - all these will
be instrumental in enabling the farmers to move to higher
consumption frontier than that could be possible in the
absence of the storage facilities.
II PROJECT FORMULATION
Origin
2.01        Prior to the Second Plan period, no planned
efforts were made for creating storage capacity within the
cooperative sector.  However, mar}eting cooperatives and
agricultural credit societies had, to a limited extent,
undertaken construction of godowns mainly out of their own
resources.  In 1955-56, the storage capacity available wi,i
the cooperative sector was about 66,000 tonnes. Recognising
the fact that the availability of the proper storage capacity..
within the cooperative sector is crucial aid to the develop-
mdnt of the marketing and distributing operations of coopera-
tives, cooperatives were assisted under the Sfcond and Third
Plans to construct godowns at market centres and in the rural
areas. In the Second Plan, assistance was provided for the
construction of about 1700 godowns of marketing 3ocieties
and 5000 rural godowns. In addition to these godowns, a
fairly large number of godowns at market centres in the
rural areas were built by cooperatives with theiz own
resources or under other development schemes.' In the Third
plan nearly 800 godowns of marketing societies and 6600 rural
godowns were assisted.



-7-
2.02    The National Coovercitive Devclopment ;:orporation
(NCDC) which was established as a statutory organisation
under the National Cooperative Develon.ment Corporation Act
1962 initiated a large number of schemes to step up the
construction of godowns in the country.  In 1964-65, the
Primary Agricultural Credit Societies at the village level*
Marketing Cooperatives at the Mandi level were provided
financial an;:istitnc  for the construction of godowns under
the Central-Aided State Plan Schleme to meet 100% cost of
the godowns. In 1965-66 ;and *3uriny 1968-69, construction'
of grdowns under the Ccuttal Srponsored Scheme was taken
up to augment the storage capacity of cooperatives for
distribution of agricultural inputs and marketing of
agricuitural produce.' In 1972-73, a new Central Sector
Scheme was introduced for cooperative storage on the
recomnendations of the Expert Committee on storage constituted
by the Planning Commission. This scheme was in operation
during the years 1972-74. From 1974-75 onwards, this
Central Sector Scheme was extended only to the cooperatively
under-developed States to remove regional imbalances and to
speed up construction of godowns in these States which
hitherto, due to paucity of resources under the State Plan
Sector-could not keep pace with the developments in the
other States. The pattern of financial assistance under
this scheme for backward States was also liberlised and 50%
of the capital cost of the godowns was provided as loan and 50% as
subsidy. For assisting construction of godowns by coopera-
tives in the cooperatively developed States, NCDC sponsored
a scheme in 1974-75, funded from its own resources, under
which 62.5% ok the-cost of the godowns was provided as loan
outside State Plan Ceilings, wlhile State Government themselves
met the balance 37.5% cost as subsidy from State Plan
resources.  This pattern was further modified by NCDC during
1977-78 and since then NCDC started providing 60% cost of
e-odowns .-s term to-ins to the State Governments who would
provide balance 40% cost *is subsidy from State Plan Funds.
2.03    By the end of 1977-78, 28492 rural and 5950 marketing
godown4 were completed under the NCDC's schemes. However,
the gap betwean demand for and supply of godowns was too
big to be abridged by IUCDC through its own financial resources.
2.04    Under the reorganisation and amalgamation programme of .
the Reserve Bank of Indlia (R.'3I) in collaboration with the
State Governments, the number of Primary societies were
reduced from 175000 in 1973 to 125000 in 1977. During
1978-79 their number declined further to 94952. Of these
88464 societies were active while the remaining societies
were dorment. The active societies whose area of operation
extended over 544887 villages covered 93% of the villages
in the country.  However, only 25% of the societies were.-
having rural godowns at their disposal. Huge backlog of
storage godowns coupled with increase in the cost of
construction made it difficult for NCDC to undertale
massive construction of rural godowns.



-8-
2,05    It was realised that keeping in view the growing
demand for storage godoums in the rural areas in the country
NCDC with its limited financial resources tied up with certain
ongoing programmes would have to take recourse to the International
Aid from Agencies like International Development Association (IDA,)
of the World Bank, Zuropean Economic Community (EEC) etc.
2.06    An amendment to NCDC Act in 1974 enabled it to seek
international aid with the approval of the Central Government,
For larger investment, NCDC took recourse from the year 1978-79
to International aid from agencies like IDA of the World Bank,
European Economic Commuzi;ty (SEC) etc. to fulfil its programmes
commitmients,
2,07    Since NCDC had hitherto not been used by World Bank as on-
lending channel, a Bank i.valuation Mission visited India on
October/November,1976 to review its organisation policies, procedures
and performance. The Mission concluded that N.-DC would be a suitable
on-lending charaiel subject to implementation of various recommendations
concained in its Evaluation Report dated the April 8, 19779 NCDC
accordingly engaged the service of the Management Development
Institution of India (MIDI) to review its orgcnisation, management and
procedures.  NCDC has since made a number of adjustmentsin its
organisation, management and proceduirese
ErgeRaration and Appraisal
2.08    NCDC started work on the formulation of World Bank Storage
Project with a series of discussion with the State Government and-
officials.of Haryanas U.P. and Orissao The steps involved for the
formulation of project were as follows:
a. Designation of a number of qualified professionals
in NCDC with the State level counter-parts to work
as formulation units;
b,. Collection of data;
c. Discussion with the State Agencies regarding preparation
of sub-projects, supervision and follow-up of projects;
da Writing and updating of Project Reports.
2.09    The initial project formulation was done through 3 separate
Teams, The following Project Reports were prepared by the Teams;
1) Project Report on Cooperative Storage in U,P.
for World Bank ssistance,
2) Project Report.on Cooperative Storage in Haryana
for World Bank Assistance.
3) Prooject Report on Cooperative Storage in
Orissa for World Bank Assistancea,



-9-
2.10    At the instance of the World iank, NCDC teams collected
additional data and prepared following reports on World Bank Project:
i) Supplement to the Project Report, Additional
Data on Cooperative Storage Programme, Uttar Pradesh.
ii) Supplement to the Project Report, Additional
Data on Cooperative Storage Programme, Haryana.
iii) Supplement to the Project Report, Additional
Data on Cooperative Storage Programme, Orissa.
iv) Supplement to the Project Report on Cooperative
Storage Progranune, flaryana, Uttar Pradesh, Orissao
Arrangement for Project Implementation and Monitoring.
2.11    The information.and data compiled by NCDC provided
a large number of parameters on economy of the 3 States, U.P.,
Haryana an4 Orissa with special reference to cooperative
developments, storage availability with the public agencies
like the Food Corporation of India (PCI), Central Warehousing
Corporation (CWC), State Warehousing Corporation (SWC) and
State Governments, business turnover of Apex Marketing
Federations, requirements for marketing and rural godowns etc.
2.12    In December, 1977, NCDC forwarded a revised Project
Report to the World Bank for providing storage.to the coopera-
tives in Haryana, U.P. and Orissa. Subsequently, some more
information was called by the World Bank in April, 1978.
2.13   'rhe World Bank Mission appraised the Cooperative
Storage Projects in Haryana, U.P. and Orissa frow 10th May
to 2nd June, 1978. They visited a number of Cooperative
institutions in each State and had detailed discussions with
the Officers of the Central and Cooperative Banks, State
Marketing Federations and Officers .of the Cooperative and
Agriculture Departments. They had a final round of talks
on 31st May, 1978 at New Delhi with the senior officers of
the concerned States, NCDC and the Department of Economic
Affairs, Government of India, The Mission had then worked
out the requirements of Storage capacity under the project to
1.01 million tonnes costing about 500 million rupees including
physical contingencies (like Consultancy services, Cars, Jeeps,
Bicycles, Surveying instruments, etc.) and price escalations.
However, after their return to Washington, the Mission re-worked
and intimated that the revised project estimates would have
an outlay of Rs.536 million. These, however, could not be
taken as final estimates. The final project was to be
negotiated in October-November, 1978 and expected to be
approved by the Board of Directors of the World Bank sometime
in January, 1979 becoming operational from 1st April, 1979.



10
2.14    The Appraisal Mission during final discussion suggested
to phase the construction over a period of 5 years treating the
period from 1st July  1978 to 31st March, 1979 as a pre-project
period followed by 41 years for the completion of the Project and
the last 6 months for settlement of accounts. The World Bank
Mission also intimated that they would be recoumending
retro-active finance for the pre-project period from 1st July,
1978 to 31st March, 1979 to a limited extent of onemillion
dollars.
2o15    The M4ission also indicated that the NCDC would receive
a Summary on Project for VWorld Bank around 10th of July. 1978.
Subsequently, the World Bank issued a document Report 2i89 - IN
titled 'India National Cooperative Development Corporation
Project, Staff Appraisal Report', December, 1978o The Document
embodied the final version of the Project in all its details.
Description of the Proiect
Project Objectives
2o16    The physical objective of the Project was to construct
godowns in 3 States - Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. Howevers
the primary objectives, according to World Bank, were in
institution building. First, the aim was to make NCDC grow into
a more effective and viable development institution, Second,
construction of godowns was meant to promote building a stronger
cooperative infrastructure in rural areas. Godowns construction
activity was selected because of the  urgent need to provide
storage in rural area for agricultural inputs and outputs and the
need for supporting the development of the cooperative sector.
Selection of States
2.17    Only 3 States were included in the Project to keep the
geographical spread within a convenient1ly manageable scale, The
States selected for the Project also provide a representative
picture of the varying levels of cooperative development in
India. Haryana is higb.on the scale of cooperative development
whereas Orissa is low on the scale, Uttar Pradesh is on an
intermediate and also in a mixed stage of development - certain
parts of the State are very well developed whereas other parts
are poor in development of cooperatives,*
oMponents of ProAect
2.18    NCDC was provided with funds to help the primary Coopera-
tive Societies (PCS), Marketing Societies & Cooperative
*Federations in the three project States and TDCC in Orissa
construct additional storage-cum-office facilities and improve
existing infrastructure at village and rural market levelso
The storage provided under this project was for the most
part at the village level and of a type different from, ard



- Li -
comnlementary to, the facilities -rovi,red bv the Centr.-al larehousinc,
C :rpor;ltion, (C;,C), State 'larehousing Cor-or-tion (S;C) and Yood
Cor:;rti,n of InM3ia (PCI).
2.19       The World Bcnrk worked out the storage requirements of
the Primary Societies at the vill.ge level on the basis of following
d .ta:
Stor "e recuiremen s tiunder ITCDC-I
l-lorvana    Uttar Pradesh   Orissa  'I'ota1
Ilumber of Coo-er-ntive        2,409       12,994           3,358  18,761
Irim.-try Societies
Juno, 1976
Number of societies            2,168        8,002           2,745  12,915
May, 1978
Target Number of viable        2,200        8,000          2,500  12,700
societies
Number of societies owning       600        3,200           1,800   5,600
Godoiwns
Number of Societies Godowns   1,500         4,600           1,040   7,140
to be constructed under
the Project
Number of Members in all
Societies (Million)             0.8          7.0             2.2    10.0
Number of Members in Project
Societies (million)             0.5          3.9             1.3     5.7
2.20      Storage capacity required at the rural level was directly
related to farm inouts usage and agricultural production.  In planning
storage capacity in 3 States it was assumed that rate of growth of
fertiliser demand during 1978 to 1983 w,ould ranc!e from 10 to 17% per
annum and foodgr3ins output from 4 to 7% per annum in the Project
States. The actual and nrojected data on agricultural production,
fertiliser use -ind storace canacity in -roject States is cgiven in
Annex 1, table - I.
2,21      Additional storage capacity was required not only to
satisfy the existing unmet demand of about 0.170 million tonnes in
Haryana and 0.5 million tonnes each in both U.P. and Orissa on the basis
of 1976-77 estimates but also to accommodate the project demand increase,
Total Investment and PhsiaTorets
2.22      The Project envisaged a tot-al investment of U.S.
$63.9 million equivalent to Rs.549.9 millions and construction of
7140 rural godowns by Primary cooperative societies (PCS) at a Cost
of Rs.333.8 millions, the rehabiliation of 1100 godowns of Primary
cooperative Societies in Orissa only at a cost of R5s8.2 million



- 12 -
and construction of 280 go(lowns bv Primniry Cooperitive Marketing
societies (Prs) in Orissa onl.y at the' cost of Rn.20.8 millionzs
;and construction of 134 qlodowna hy Lho !Jt:tte Marketing Federf,ti- na
in thiorsol throo St:ttco znd the Tribi.il Devolopment Coopera.tive
Corporation in Orissa at a car)ital cost of Rs.79.7 millions.  The
WvIorld Bank had also approved in addition to the above mentioned
capital cost on the godowns, an amount of r,36.5 millions for
technical assistance, vehicles and engineering instruments,
Ps.22.3 million for physical contingencies and Rs.78.6 millions
for prices contingencies.
2.22      The State-wise details are given below:-
State-wise Summ_ay of Projectcosts and Physical Targets
Capacity : Tonnes
Beneficiary          Unit   No. of    Total         Cost       Cost
capacity  Godowns   capacity    (Ps. in    (U.S. $
millirn) million)
Haryana
V'edror.jtion     1 - 5000     70      214000          57.8      6.7
(HAEED)
Primary
Coonerative
Societie3s       50 -  100   1500      125000          68.5      7.9
Sub Total                    1570      339000         126.3     14.6
Uttar Pradesh
Federation(PCF)  1 - 2000      35       50000          14.5      1.7
Primary Coopera-          I
tive Societies  53 - 100    4600       410000         220.0     15.6
Sub Total                    4635      460000         234.5     27.3
Orissa
Federation      250 - 2000     23       20000           5.0      0,6
(OSCMF)
Tribal Dev-.
lopment Coop.
Corporation
(TDCC)        1250 - 2500       6       10000           2.4      0.3
-Regional
Coooerativa
Marketing
socinties      2t0 -  500    200        noooo          20.8      2.4
Primary Coop.
Societies       50 -  100   1040       104000          45.3      5.3
Sub Total                    1349      214000          73.5      8.6



- 13 -
Capacitr: Tomnes
Beneficiary           Unit    Ilo. of   Total        Cost          Cost
Capacity  Godomns  capacity    (Rs. in      (U.S. $
million)    Million)
Godown Rehabi-       50-100     1100    80000            8,2       0.9
litation Orissa:
Technical
Assistance                                               6.5       0.8
vehicles,
EngineerIng
instruments
Total base costs                                       449.0      52.2
Physical
contingencies                                           22.3       2.6
Price
contingencies                                           78.6       9.1
Grand Total:                   8654   1093000          549.9      63.9
2.23     The total cap;acity envisaged under the project was
0.719 million tonnes for the rural codowns at the level of PCS;
80000 tonnes at the Mandi level by the PMS and 0.294 million tonnes
by the State Marketing Federations and Orissa TDCC.
2.24     This Programme of construction of 1.093 million  tonnes
of storage capacity with IDA credit was a part of the overall
storage programme envisaged for the Sixth Plan during which
it was proposed to sanction an additional capacity of 4.5 million
tonnes for rural godowns and 1 million tonnes for the godo-,ns
of Primary Coo,oerative Marketing Societies and State Federations.
On completion of this capacity as ;ilso the capacity sanctioned
upto 1977/-78 but still under construction, the cooneratives
would have about 10.86 million. tonnes capacity of which 7.26 million
tonnes would be in the rural areas and 3.6 million tonnes in
marketing centres.
Bu    IL s and Specifications
2.25     Since the societies at village level required rural
godowns denendingj upon busines :- turnover and divernification
of services, godowns of 50 tonnes and 100 tonnes were proposed
for PCS. Many of the PCS goclowns were desiqned to have a
Manager's residence attached. Because of windy conditions
prevalent in certain areas, many godownq were proposed to be
constructed with reinforced cement concrete roofing while
others were to be constructed with wood trunses and asbestos
sheets. Two-third of the PCS new godowns were to have attached
Manager's residence and a similar proportion requ1ired reinforced
concrete roof.



-14-
2.26        All buildings were based on standard-designs of four
different capacities - 50 tonnes and 100 tonnes for use by PCS
and 250 and 2,000 tonnes for RaUIS and Federations, Designs drawings
for all capacities were agreed during appraisal. Godowns with
500 tonnes capacity were to be double the length of a 250 tonnes
unit and 1000 tonnes capacity were to be half as long as the 2000
tonnes modelo  Godonms of 3UuO and 5000 tonnes wrere similarly based
on the 2000 tonnes model, having their lengths proportionately
increased. Facilities provided I'or PCS included storage space for
fertiliser separated from  -Dr.ce for farm producee space for
consumer goods storage und sales, society office, drinking water
supplyt WC facilities, veranda, patio for meetings, and parkinig yard,.
Technical Com.onent
2.Z7        The Project also made provision for technical assi:tance.
in the form of local consultants service totalling 60 man-months
to assist the new Organisations and MIethods (0OM) Departments set up
in the NCDC and State Cooperative Banks (SCB) in the three project
States. The Consultants were to help the 08&I Department in
organisational iLAprovements of these institutions and in staff
training, improving accounting and management information systems and
preparation of procedure manuals.
2,28        To ensure mobility of the executiVe and technical staff
of NCDC  State Cooperlative Bank (SCB) and of the participating
cooperatives, provision was ma.de in the Project for vehicles
suitable for field conditions - 33 motor cars for executives in
NODC's Zonal Offices and engineers in SCB Head Quarters and
Divisional Offices, 150 motor scooters for junior engineers and
Development Officers to be employed by SCB, and 8200 bicycles
for the managers of the participants PCS were provided for the
Project. Provision was also made for supply of 110 sets of
engineering instruments for use by the engineerinG staff of SCB
and IICDCe
Godowns cost
2.29        The project cost  over a 5 years development period,
estimated at about RS.550 million (US $ 64 milliors) was based
on mid - 1978 price for labour and materials. The average cost
in Haryana and U.P. per tonne capacity exclusive of land cost .
for different sized godowns were estimated as follows:-
a) 50 tonnes godovin without a Manager's
residence and with an asbestos sheet roof P.480/- ton
b) lOO tonnes godowu wtith residence and two-.
thirds having reinforced cement concrete
slab roofs                                 Rs,420/. ton
c) 250 tonnes godown without residence and
with asbestos sheet.koof (Orissa)          Ps,270/- ton
d) 2,000 tonnes godovm without residence
and with corrugated steel sheet roof       as*245/m ton



- 15 -
Pattern of assistance and lending terms
2.30     As regards pattern of financial assistance it was
decided that each society for construction of godown in
Haryana and U.P. would be getting 60% of the capital cost
as loan from the State Cooperative Bank and 35% of the cost
as share capital from the State Govt. Balance 5% would be
met by the society from its own funds. As regards Orissa
State, the society in Tribal areas would be getting loang
upto 50% of the godown cost from the State Cooperative Bank,
25% of the cost as share capital and 20% as subsidy from the
State Government and the balance 5% would be met by the
society from its own funds. In are-ls other than tribal
areas in Orissa the loan assistance upto 50% of the godown
cost would be available to the society from the State Cooperative
Bank. The State Govt. in this case would provide 45% of the
cost as share capital to the societies and the remaining 5%
of the capital cost would be met by the societies from their
own resources.
2.31   An IDA credit of US $ 30 mil! `ns representing SW. of
the total project cost net of duty & J taxes was proposed to
meet about 47% of the planned investment. The remaining 53%
was to be met by the participating cooperatives, Governments
of the project States and NCDC as indicated below:
Project Financing Table
Percentage
of total       Rs.          US $
Proiect Costs Millions Millions
i) NCDC through SCB, as               47          256.5       30,0
loan to Beneficiaries
(Representing IDA Credit)
ii) NCDC through $CB, as loan          13           71,9        8.3
to Beneficiaries
(NCDC own funds)
iii) NCDC to State Govts, as
loan                               15           83.0        9.5
iv) State Govt. to beneficiaries
(From State Budget Funds)          20          110.8       12.9
*  95          522.2       60.7
Beneficiary Cooperatives            5           27.7        3e2
100         549.9       63e9



16
Lending Terms.
2e32    The loans to the participating societies for construction
of godowns were made available for a period of 15 years with a
moratorium of 3 years. The instalments were to be recovered
during the period of 12 years after the period of moratorium was
over. The interest rate structure and margin to be retained
by the financing institutions under NCDC-I project are given below:
Borrowin  rate N-argin    Lending rate
Government of India               -                        6.75%
(IDA) Funds
NCDC                            6.75%        0.5C0)         7.25%
State Cooperative Banks         7.25%        2.256          9,50)6
Society                         9.500)6 
2.33    NCDC had agreed to offer a rebate of 0.25% of interest
to the SCB for prompt payment, The SCB also in tur  offered a
rebate of 0.25% to the participating cooperatives for prompt repay-
ment of loan instalments and interest,
Orgnoisation _a MAnageMe
2.34    The World Bank Project laid great emphasis on the re-
Organisation and staffing of the participating agencies particularly
the Apex Cooperative Banks which were advised to strengthen their
staff for appraisal, supervision and monitoring the godowns
sub-projects, organise a training programue and improve their
management information and accounting systems and procedures. The
godowns were owned and operated by various multipurpose cooperative
societies (PCS), Marketing Societies (RCMS) and the State level
Cooperative Federations (HAFED, PCF, OSCMF and TDCC).
Financial Rate of Return
2.35    The Project had calculated financial rate of return on
investment on a model of rural godown (100 tonnes) in Haryana, In
the calculations, the costs were estimated to grow beyond year
5 at 7% ratep sawe rate as before years.  The growth of benefits
were estimated to drop from over 206 in the first 5 years to 10
percent in the.years 6-10 and to 76 in the years 11 to 20. Based on
the margins obtained for the different activities of the PCS,
financial rate of return for the society's investment was estimated
at 16%.
2,36    A sensitivity analysis was performed to ascertain which
variables were most crucial for success of investment
in rural godownso  It was found that FRR was most sensitive
to changes in interest margin on credit. Reduction of
this margln from 2.5% to    would reduce FRR to 12.e60,



-17-
2.37      In the case of the marketing Pederations, financial
cialculatit'ns were made for a 2,000 tonnes model godown. An,
average annual net benefit per tonne of godown capacity was
calculated by taking into account last 3 years profits and
making interest and depreciation adjustments relating to
godowns already being operated by the federations.
2,38      The cost streams of newl godowns were based on 1977-78
actual costs incurred for similar-godowns.  Based on these,
as'umptions, FRR was estimated at 16.7%. PRR was not found
sensitive to moderate changes in any cost or benefit item
as was evident from the sensitivity tests.
Cash Flow
2,39      The World Bank made cash flow calculations for
typical PCS and Federation*s in each project State, The
c-.lculations shoted that PCS would have difficulties to
service the lonn takrn for godown construction during the
it.nrn i to 3 .,ftor tho complntion*s of the buildlngs.
Although th. annual net cash flow would be negative also
in the years 4 to 5, the cumulative surplus would allow
repayment to commence in the fourth year.
2.40      Payment of dividend on ecruity could be started
from the year 5, and re-puichase by the society of State-held
redeemable eauity could be completed by the year 10. If the
Federation's new godowns were considered as separate business
entities, and not as an integral part of the Federation,
loan servicing by them could also start in year 4 and the
cumulative cash flow would be positive thereafter.
Benefits and Justifications
Economic Rate of Return
2,41      In the calculation of the economic rate of return
the World Bank had taken reduction in storage losses and
transport cost savings on the benefit side of the storage
project. According to the World Bank, the project facilities
would save about 2% of the farm produce and fertilisers
handled by the PCS which without project would have been wasted.
The transport cost saving would arise from the use of the truck
transport instead of individual bullock cart and would amount
to about Rs.4 per tonne/Ailometer. For the typical PCS the
average benefit in savings in transport would total about
Rs.28 per tonne which was estimated at 2% of the fertilisers and
produce handled.
2,42      In the economic analysis calculations, full account
was made of the economic value of project investment and
operating costs, In calculating these costs, a Standard
Conversion Factor of 0.8% vas applied to all domestic expenses.



- 18 -
For unskilled labour, a shadow wage rate of 50% of market value
was used to take into account the high levels of rural unemployment
and under re-employment in the project States. Salaries of
semi-skilled technical and administrative personnel were costed
at market rates. The economic prices for traded goods were
based on their border prices at the official exchange rate, and
20 years wtls assumed to be the project life,
2,43     Based on forging assumptions, the economic rate of return
was estimated at 22%. The cost and benefits streams were al followss-
Costs                  Years  1   2    3    4    5       6      7-20
Project Investment            42.7 80.6 93.4 101.9 107.8 56.5   -
Incremental Operating          9.1 15.5 22.7. 27.5  44.6 53.5   53.5
Costs
Benefits
Reduction in Storage           3.3 10.5 19.1  33,1  49.8 69.7    7%
Losses                                                          (growth per
annum)
Transport Cost Savings         3.3 11.2 20.3  34.6  51.7 69.0    Is
Economic Rate of Return       22%
RLnpioynent Effects
2.44     The Project would have a substantial employment impact.
Godown construction itself was estimated to provide about 46,000
man-years of employment during the 5 years project implementation
period. Once construction was complete, 8000 PCS managers, 6,000
storekeepers and 8,000 watchmen were estimated to be needed by the
participating cooperatives. Thropgh its indirect impact on farm
production, the project would result in substantial additional
farm employment. It was estimated that this could be as much as
34,000 man-years by project year 5.
Institutional and Social Benefits
2.45     Institutional and social benefits of the project were
estimated to be considerable. The project would strengthen the
links between NCDC and other institutions in the cooperative
-sector, particularly State Cooperative Banks, and'introduce soun'd
project planning, appraisal, and financial standards and procedures.
The strengthening of cooperatives at the village level would provide
a focal point for expanded economic activities.
2.46     The project would also help promote regionally balanced
development. The project would benefit about 5.7 million farm
families. Over 65% belong to the categories of landless, marginal
and small fanmers. Conseauently a large percentage of the project
participants would be part of the 48% of India rural population
that are considered by Government of India living below the
poverty line.



- 19 -
Project Monitoring
2.47     The Project Report suggested that each of the pa -ricipating
cooperatives and the State Coonerative Banks as well as NCDC would
have arrangemenis for monitoring sub-project implementation and
operation. Management at various levels of the resFactive
institutions will maintain key records, summaries of which would
be distributed internall- to executives for information, feed-back
and follow-up action.
2,48     Yoxr each level of project org,tnisation, reporting would
generally include quarterly progress reports* Annual Accounts
and Board reports, Audit reports, half yearly review reports,
an annual monitoring and evaluation ropogt and adhoc reports of
significant developments.
2.49     All reports wouild be avail-able to IDA Review Mission in
additional to Annuaal work programmes and budget, quarterly
project progress reports and audited annual account and reports
prepared by SCB and NCDC. NCDC quarterly progress reports would
comprise three main sections, the first part outlining over-all
progress and problems relating to Project implementation and
lending activities.  The second part would be the report on
progress and problems relating to SCB, NCDC Zonal Offices and
activities in the Project States.  The third part would relate to
physical progress of the sub-projects which would be at varying
stages of developments.  The Project Report also specified the
information content of tables prepared by NCDC and quarterly
progress report.
Evaluation
2.50     Over-all responsibility for project evaluation would be
that of NCDC. It was agreed during aprraisal that project
evaluation unit in NCDC would be formed. The evaluation unit
would be headed by an Economist and supported by a statistician and
a cooperative specialist. The Evaluation Unit would follow up
project implementation, identify problem areas and deviation6 from
appraisal estimates, ,asses effectiveness of the participating
cooperatives, their members and the fanming cbmmunity served by
the cooperatives. Project evaluation would cover physical,
technical, financial, managerial and econ6mic aspects of the
project.
Implementation Procedures
2.51     According to the implementation procedures laid down by
the World Bank, NCDC was designated the major implementing agency
coordinating project activities of all the participating. agencies.
NCDC would assist, coordinate and monitor the activities of
other participating agencies at all phases of project implementation
and maintain active liaison with the Government of all the three
StatXs and Government of India.



- 20 
2.52    Primary responsibilities for proect promotion  sub-
project identification was that of the RCS of each State* RCS staff
was to assist the participating PCS and RCMS to prepare sua,-
projects. NCDd's Zonal Office staff was to provide additional
support in the promotion and sub-project identification work. SCB
was designated as NCDC's on lending channel and implementing
agencies at State level. SCB's Project Development Officers were to
help the Managers of the cooperatives to prepare sub-project Report
and loan application forms. A detailed sub-project Report format
was suggested by the World Bank which embodied comprehensive
information on background, agricultural production$, availability of
storage facility, business turnover of the society, description of
the project, project cost, reorganisation and management, business
and financial matters, economic and social benefits and project risks,
2.53   The sub-project Report would contain vital information to
establish the need for the godowns of the size planned its
financial viability and related social benefits.' The project
Officers in NCDC's Zonal Offices were to provide guidance to RCS
and ;J stufLf and the Cosrngittee Members and Mlanagers of the
participating cooperatives in finding the most suited sites for
godown locations and on data collectior. for preparation of sub-
project reports. The Federations and TDCC were to appraise their
sub-project reports,
2.54   The sub-project reports were to be completed in quarduplicate
original sent to SCBg one copy to RCS and second copy to NCDC Zonal
Offices and 3rd copy was retained by the cooperatives, This would
enable all the three parties to review the sub-project independently
and simultaneously and to avoid delays.
2.55    RCS was to review sub-projects and loan app::ication  in
order to give GOS approval for activities undertaken by cooperatives
in the State and also to arrange for the provision of its share of
finance for the investment. The NCDC Zonal Office was to review the
sub-project cooperative because NCDC was required to refinance SCB
loans to tha cooperatives. Detailed appraisal of every sub-project
was the responsibility of SCB. Unless RCS or NCDC Zonal Office
staff intimated to SCB, within 5 working days, any reservations
connected with the sub-project, the latter was entitled to assume
that the other two parties would honour their obligations. GOS was
to provide 20)6 out of budget towards equity or grant in some cases
in Orissa and to borrow 15% from NCDC to be passed as equity to the
cooperatives and NCDC was to lend 15% to Govto of State and 6C0 to
SCB for loans given to ultimate borrowers.
2,56    Appraisal of the sub-projects by SCB would include a thorough
review of technical and financial feasibility irioludi.g
field investigation by the SCB staff, These appraisals were to
be based on criteria established in agreement between NODO and IDA,



-21-
Sub-project for all go-.ot.fn of 1000 tonnes and for the first
5 godo%.ns of each of different ca;p.acities in every participating
£tate was subject to NCi)C's full appraisiAl and approval.
Subsequent sub-projects were to be reviewed anda)proved by NCDC
on the sample basis, IDA was to ruvieow a selected nuraber of sub-
projects during tiia follow-up visitso Subject to positive
appraisal by SCB, $CB was to eniter into a loan agreement!with
the borrowng cooperatives,  SCB wias to submit to RCS and NCDC
periodical statements of such loan approvrals based on which GOl
and NCDC were to honour their financial ooriunitments,
V, 57     TN'-1w V'uiier;ttion aznd i)OC' VIeuo to lJuwleZlo tlieir oiv
nrocurement, and construction supcviL;ion, Once they received
from SJCI the confir:.iation of lo&an eXpproval they would proceed to
prepare detail building designs and tender documents for award of
godown construc Lion contracts, The other cooperativis (PCS and
IRCMS) were to depend on engineering, division of SCB for this
teclmicJ.l su:port. It was laid uio.:n by the World Bank that detail
specification would be based on stardard designs and tenders would
be invited for construction contracts which would as far as
practical be bulked based on geographical and time scatter.
2,58      SCB was made the kingpin for the construction phase of
the Project.  The loan Department of SCB was given special
responsibility for project implementation,  SCB was suggested to
make arrangement to strengthen their staffing capacity to appraise,
supervise and monitor godown constructions sub-projects. This
depcprtlment would have an engineorin" division to take care of the
technical a3pocts of the sub-projects,
2.59      The engineerings division in each of the SCB ..as to be
headed by a qualified Executive Engineer based at the bank head-
quarters. An assistant engineer twas to be stationed at each of
the Divisional Offices of the SCB-. About 100 junior Engineers and
46 Developz,xent Officers were to be employed. All these were to
spend most of their time in the field, assisting the managers of
cooperatives counselling on completion of sub-projects reports
and loan aoplica.tions in addition to appraising, monitoring and
certificAtion of construction for paymentse
NCDC's Policy.Circular
2.60      On January 15, 1979  NCDC issued a comprehensive policy
circular to the Agricultural Production conmissioners/Secretaries,
Cooperation and Manmging Directors of the S ate Cooperative Banks,
of the project States. The circular incorptrated major features of .
World Bank (IDA) Cooperative godowAing project and operating
procedures for the implementation of the project.
2.61      The NCDC had earlier circulated a set of proforma for
the preparation of sub-projects at 'the lovel of Primary Credit
Societies, Primary Marketing Societies and State Cooprative
Federations. It was, however, found that the proformae for the
village societies, primary cooperative marketing societies were
too cumber3ome to be followed by the personnel of the societies,
NCDC had, thkefore, prepared simpler proformae which were shown
to the World Ban': at the time of negotiations at Washington,



- 22 °
Copies of the revised profonma were circulated to States in December,
1978. As regards State Marketing Federations, no change in the
sub-project proforma was made.
2.62   According to the circular, the loan assistance to the societies
to be provided by the State Cooperative Banks would be reimbursed to the
banks in full by the NCDC. NCDC would also finance the State Government
with term loans to the extent of 15% of the project cost in Haryana*
U.P. and upto 25% in Orissa to help the State Government for participa-
tion in the share capital of the societies   This assistance from the
NCDC would also be on reimbursement basis to the State Governments.
2.63   As far as the mode of release of funds to the societies, it was
suggested by NCDC that as soon as sub-project was approved and sanctioned
by the State Cooperative Bank and land was acquired by the society the
bank may release 50% of the loan assistance in lumpsum in favour of the
selected societies as ways and means advance so that the construction
work was taken up. The balance 50% loan assistance would be released as
soon as the godown construction reached plinth level. The State Govta,
would also endeavour' to sanction and release its share capital assistance
to the society soon after the project was sanctioned. The entire loan
assistance and share capital released to the society would, however, be
kept with the authority charged with the responsibility for construction
of godown. The State Cooperative Bank would immediately after the
release of the loan instalments make request to NCDC for the reimbursement
of assistance released to the selected society, Similarly, the State
Government would make a request to the NCDC for reimbursement of a
portion of the Share capital released to the society. The State Cooper-
ative Bank would also keep NCDC and the State Govt. informed periodically
about the progress In the construction of the godowns in the prescribed
proforma designed for monitoring.
2.64   It was also laid down in the policy circiilar that the Corporation's
loan assistance for  podowns programme would be sanctioned to the State
Cooperative Bank.s against the State Government's guarantee. The State
Cooperative Ba.nk would have also to ehter into agreement for the total
amount involved in the project with the NCDC for getting financial
assistance.
2.65   Since godowvn project would involve small investment at a time by
individual cooperatives spread throughout the State and since the
contracts for the godowns individually were small and dispersed in time
and space, contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
local competitive biddings. Copies of the invitation to bid, specifica-
tions, evaluations, contracts and other relevant document shall be
submitted to the State Cooperative Bank for its retention and for
periodical innp ction by the representative of the IDA.
2.66   The State Cooperative Banks would furnish to thu.NCDC audited
accounts and reports. with respect of each sub-project refinanced by NCDC
loan under the IDA Project within 6 months of the end of each financial
year by the State Cooperative Bank. The State Cooperative Banks would
ilso ftirnish its nnnunl work programmes, Annual Projects and
Quarterly Progress Reports in regard to sub-projects regularly for
submission to IDA.
2.67   In the light of above observations and guidelines NCDC s1ggested
that necessary action for processing sub-projects proposal might be
initiated and sapctton issued so that the construction for the first
phase in the pre-Project period was completed within 3-4 months.



-23-
III INPLI'I2ZTATION
3.01       The imnylemontation phase of Cooperative Storage
Project (NCDC-I) has been divided into two parts, Part I
deals with the uchievement of physical targets andl aisburse-
ment schedules and Part II records achievement wJith regard
to institution building of the participating agencies,
Physical Proe  ofe            ct
3.02       Import;.nt facts o- IDA Credit No.871-IN for
NCDC-I Project in 3 L'rojuct 6t.toe  are Lgiven below:
1.    Date of Agreement               2.2.79
2.   Date of effectiveness            3,5,79
3.    Total cost of Project           $63.90 Millions
*4o   Amount of credit                $30 Millions
51,   Project Completion date         31 o12083
6,   Credit closing date              31012.84
7,   Conversion rate (assumed)        US $1.00 -Rs,8,60
8,   Retro-c.ctive finance            $1.00 Million
(after 1,7,78)
9.   Disbursement schedule
IDA BY 79                       2.16
IDA FY 80                       6*94
IDA PY 81                      12*48
IDA FY 82                      18446
IDA EY 83                      24o90
IDA FY 84                      30.00 (31.3,84)
3.03      The implementation of the physical schedule of the
Project has been attempted ittith special emphasis on problem
areas which hampered the progress of the project in the initial
years. No attempt has been made to record historical sequence
of events. Attention has been focused on certain key problem
areas and prescriptive guidance for formulation of policies in
the light of feed-back from the implementation of construction
programme of the Project to ensure better progress in the
future.



dm24. 
3.04       The physical progress of the Project has been given below
separately for each of the ProJect Stateso
UTTAR PRADES
3.05       The following two tables give Project targets,, sanctioned
and completed number of rural godowns and marketing godowns from
1978-79 to 1984-85.
TABLE N021
Project Target, Sanctioned and Completed Number of rural godowns
Year            Project            Sanctioned        Completed
Target              Godom             Godowns
8400   T6t aJ   50   100  To1tal 50       100    Total.
~~~.   to,                  torme _o          torme tonne P 
1978-79   100   360       460    68   1000 1068   -
197980   200 * 720        920   -    1750 1750   3        217     220
1980-81   200   720       920   100   450   550  15    432        447
1981-82   200    720      920    -M-               57     751     808
1982-83   200    720      920  _              g    47    1136    1183
1983-84   100   360      460           200   200.  46     664     710'
1984-85    -     -        d             de         -      200     200
Total:  1000  3600    4600   168   3400 3568  168    3400    3568
TABLE Nea2
Project Tarpnt. Sanctioned ad C2mpleedumer of PCF Godowna
Year            Project            Sanctioned        Completed
Taggt          G~~odowns         Godown
NCapact                 No,   Caoacl       No,   Cho 22a
1978-79        3         5000        6      17000                -
197940         7        10000       12      33000       5      14000
198081         7        10000.                         11      30000
1981-82       .7        10000        -                  2       6000
1982-83        7        10000                          dod
198344        4          5000            -        _     _
Total:       35        50000       18      50000      18      50000
3,06       The table - I reveals that 2he Project envisaged construc-
tion of 4600 rural godowna, 3600 of 100 tormes capacity each in the
plain areas and 1000 rural godowns of 50 tonnes capacity in the hilly
areas. At the end of the Project period, the implementing Authority,
U..P had constructed 3568 rural godowns, 3400 rural godowns of 100
tonnes each and 168 rural godowns of 50 tomnes capacity each.



- 25 -
3.07      A mid-term review of the Project revealed that due to
cost escal&tion, it wjould not be ;rossible to attain the target
of 4600 qodo;ns of 410000 tonnes capacity. Theirefore, the target
was reduced to 3500 aodo ns ( 168 of 50 tonnes capacity and
3332 of 100 tonnes capacity) of 0.3416 million tonnes. The actual
sanction of 3568 v0idovns of 0.3484 million tonnes w:s sli-.htly
higher than the revised targ2t.
3.08      Achievement of rural godowns against Project Target
in U.P. was 1608% in c.ase of rural r:odo.wns of 50 tonnes e:Ich
and 94.4%4 in cese of rural godowns of 100 tonnes eoich and
77.6% in total. The progresn of construction of godowns had
been slow Auring the inltial two yeara and with the placement
of Adeqaate tec;nical st-aff .,nd availability of building
meterials the proc'ress pickod up rarpidly from 1981-82 to 1983-84
and also 1984-85.
3,09      Marketing godowns were constructed by PCF.  As
data in table-II reveals, PLCV was able to complete all the
marketing godowns much ahead of the schedules given under the
Project. Though the number of godoi*ms was reduced from 35
to 18, the cap-city remained unaltered.
HARYANA
3 10      Table Nos,III and IV below give Project target,
sanctioned and completed number of rural and marketing godowns
in Haryanas
TABLFE IU0.111
Projeet TajrSt   anctioned and Completed Rural Godowns
Year             Project                  Sanctioned       Completed
*raraet  ,               godotwns         godownas
50      100      Total            100 tonnes
tonne   tonne
1978-79   50     100       IS0               240               -
1979-80  100     200       300               210              19
1980-81  100      200      300               300             132
1981-82  100     200       300                -              148
1982-83  100      200      300               125             197
1983-84   50     100       150                70             310
1984-85   -        -        -                 -               55
(upto
31.12.84)
Totals-  500    1000      1500               945             861*
* 46 godowns are up to plinth level and
38 godowzs are up to roof level.



- 26 -
TABLE NO. IV
_  tTarqets, Sanction.d -nd Con: eted  _arke ti_ng God.:n s
Capacity : '000' tonnes
Year            Iroject          sanctioned             Completed
Taraet           Godowns                 Godowns
No.   __a_pqty    No,    Ca.,-i*city       No,     Cs_citv
1978-79   10        30         13        40          12          38
1979-80   15        45         18        66           5          15
1980-81   15        45         39       108          12          44
1981-82   13        40        -          -           14          44
1982-83   12        37         -         -            5          14
1983-84    5        17        -          -            3           9
1984-85   -         -          -         -            6          21
(upto
31.12.84)
Total:-  70       214         70       214          57         185
3.11   The World Dank Sunervii.cnn IFlission whidc  reviewed the
progress of p,roject in Wrirch, 1979 suggested that some of the
Primary Cooperative Crediit Soci-ties having substantial business
turnover ind other agricultural in:)uts and consumer aQods may require
storaqe accommodation of 100 tonInes each. In the light of
observation of the World 3.ink, the Government of Haryana shelved
the construction of godo,.ns of 50 totnes each and it was decided
to construct all the godowns of 100 tonnes each.
3.12   A Mlid-term ReviXw of thlo Project revealed that in the liaht
of cost escalation it would not be nossible to achieve Project
target of 1500 godowns of 0.125 million tonnes canacity. The
target was reduced to 945 godotmns of 0.0945 million tonne. At the
end of December, 1984, SCD in Ilaryana was able to comnlete 861
rural godowns wi'.h 84 godow.ns at various scage of construction.
The revised target of 945 godowns twouldi be completed.
3.13   In case of marketing godomns, the Original Project target
of 70 godowns of 214000 tonnes capacity was retained after the
mid-term review.  However, subseralently, the State Govt. decided
to dron 13 godo,.ns at 9 locations with a total capacity of 0.029
million tonnes which had been approved by NCDC also. According to
the State Govt. at many locations, other agencies such as Haryana
Warehousing Corporation, Central IJarehousing Corporation, Pood
Supplies Department etc. have constructed godowns as per reauirement
and no further godowns reauirement was anticipated.  Therefore, the
effectiv- target was fixed at 57 godotms of 0.185 million tonnes
capacity, all of which were sanctioned and completed.
ORISSA
3.14   In Orissa, it was envis-ged to construct godowns for four
types of beneficiary - rural and rehabilitation godowns for the PACS,
marketing godowns for Oris;.- Statc Cooperative Mar]eting Federation



- 27 -
(OSCMF), Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies (RCMS) and
Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation (TDCC)e
3.15    The following two tables give Project target, sanctioned
and completed number of new and rehabilitated rural godowna:
TABLE N0Oll
Project Targe , Sanctioned and Completed
number of rural gLodown  (new) Orissa 
Year              Project            Sanctioned       Completed
Targ,et
50    100      Total 50    100  To-   50    100   Total
o    tonne t    tonne  t                                 -
1978-79     10     95       105    -      - _         -
1979-80     16    159       175   29     78   107     8      2      10
198081      10    155       165  64    249   313      8     49      57
1981-82     14    201       215   12    25    37    27      80     107
198283      20    240       260   66    235  301    21    83       104
19834       10    120       130   _a _               41    189     230
1984-85      -     -do                               62    140     202
Upto
Feb., 85
Total:     80    970      1050  171    587   758   167    543     710
TABLEJ N02
Project Target, Sanctioned and Completed
nmaber of rehabilitation LodgMns-rislA
Year          ProJect         Sanctioned       Com  let t_
Target                         No,      Capacit3F
1978-79           100                -          -           -
1979-80           200                -          -
198081            200                -          -           -
1981-82           300               11          -           -
1982-83           200              189         44        3550
1983-84           100                _        115        8160
1984-85           -a                           41        3450
Total:          1100              200        200       15160
3.16   A mid-term review of the Project revealed that in view of the
cost escalationt it would not be possible to attain target of 1050
godowns of 0.101 million tonnes capacity. Therefore, the target was
revised to 758 godowns consisting of 171 godowns of 50 tonnes, 587



-28
godowna of 100 tonnes each. By the ejhd of February,
1985. 543 godowa of 100 tomes each and 167 godowns of 50
tonnes each have been completed. While sanctioning ruwal
godownst the OSCB has sanctioned a large mmber of 50 tonnes
godotna than proposed in the Project. The revision has been
done on the basis of actual needs and financial viability..
3.17    The rehabilitation programue was a special component
incorporated in NCDC-I Project in (Jrissa only,. The rehabilita-
tion component was in fact the weakest link in the 1roject. A
target of rehabilitating 200 godowns was found realistic as it
was found difficult to identify and prepare a large number of
rehabilitation sub-projects. By the end of February, 1985
all the 200 Zodowns have been rehabilitated,
&aket In  Godg=
3e18    The following three tables record the progress in the
completion of marketing godowna allotted to OSCMFW RCQS and TDCC:-
ProJect Target9 Sanctioned and Completed*
Number! of OSC?IF Rodown in 9issaL..
Year             Project           San¢-          Comple-
Tar it     _     lon*d            ted
1978-79     2        2000       5       5000     -         -
1979-80     4        4000       7       7000     1        1000
1980-81     5        4000       4       5000     3        3000
1981-82     5        4000       3       3000     8       8000
1982-83     4        4000       -                1        2000
1983-84     3        2000       -        -       5       5000
1984-85     -         -         -        -       1        1000
Total:    23       20000      19      20000    19       20000
Project Target, Sanctioned and Completed
NmbDer of RCM.S ZoLowA -Wmis
.~ '
Year        0ted
1978-79    25        6000      -        -        -          -
1979-80    50       13500      19     4750       3         750
1980-81    55       15000      26     7500       3         750
1981-82    65       17500      16     4750       5        1250
1982-83    65       19000     137    37250      3        10250
i 98 -84    20       9000      -       -                32250
T fi



-29w
TABLE NO.3
ProJect Targett Sanctioned and Completed
Numbbe  of TDCC of god2vn    Or0s-Jj
Year        Pr-oject Target      Sanctioned         ComDleted
-         No         aDaciy Cp4J   No.   CaDaCit  No. 
1978-7S    1            2500      -        -          -
1979-80      2          3750      2      5000         1      2500
1980-81      2          2500      3       2000                 de
1981-82      1          1250      5       3000        -        _
1982-83      -  _                  _                  4      4500
1983-84      -            .   .                  _
Total:      6         10000     10      10000        5      7000
3.19    The ProJect fixed a target of 23 marketing godownas  or
OSCIF with the capacity of 20,000 tonnes.  However, for effective
marketing the number of marketing godowna were reduced to 19
without change in ProJect targetted capacity.
3020    In case of RCI4S godowns, the mid-term review revealed that
due to cost escalation, the original target could not be
achieved. The target was scaled down to 198 RCMS godowns with
52,000 tonnes capacity.  However, the actual sanction was
slightly higher at 54250 tonnes. By the end of February, 1985,
192 godowns have been completed and the remaining 6 godowns are
under construotion and above plinth level. The actual achievement
against Project target would be 67,8% in terms of number and
70.71% in terms of capacity.
3.21    In case of TDCC the Project target of 6 godowns of 10,000
tonnes capacity was revised to 10 godownsa, capacity remaining
the same. By the end of 1983-84* 5 godowns have been completed
of the capacity of 7,000 tonnes. 4 godowns accounting for 2500  .
tonnes capacity are in the final stage of Construction. One
remaining godown is above plinth level. The Project target of
TDCC godowns would be achieved in terms of capacity.



*            ~~~~~30 a
3.21    The implementing authorities of Cooperative Storage
Project in Haryana, U.P. arnd Orissa faced certain problems during
the course of implementation of construction phase of project.
Most of these problemi are common to all the 3 States, Some of
the major problems and the steps taken to resolve them are
discussed In the following paragraphs.
Advance Planni"
3.22    Once the Project has been approved, selected and
programmed to be commissioned by a particular date as in case of
the World Bank Cooperative Storage Project, the focus of attention
shifts to its implementation which involves the completion of
numerous project components by fully mobilising in advance
physical and financial resources, men, materials, machines, money
and time, streamlining systems, procedures for preparationo
implementation, and appraisal of sub-projects under a well-knit
functional organisation especially created to achieve specified
purpose.
3.23    For the proper planning, scheduling and control of
activities of the project, given their inter-relationship and
constraints on the availability of resources, advance planning
is a sine quo non for the successful implementation of the Project.
3,24    In case of Cooperative Storage Project, advance planning
consisted of (i) preparation of a list of societies to whom rural
godowa are to be allotted (ii) selection of locations for godowna
(iii) preparation, appraisal and scrutiny of sub-projects
(v) adequate staffJ.ng, v() procurement of materials viz. bricks,
wood, cement and steel etc  (vi) arrangements for monitoring
control nnd feed-back  vii5 Handing over the godown to the
societies/federations viii) planning for their optimum utilisation.
3.25    Advance planning helps the project authorities to work
out a time-bound schedule of the.implementation of the project in
a phased manner covering all essential components of the project.
3.26    The survey of the construction phase of the Project
reveals that the project States started slowly in
terms of preparation of sub-projects, recruitment of
staff, procurement of building materials, adequate provisions
in the State budgets. However, the construction of godowns
picked up momentum and the completion of the physical component
of t1he Project was almost coincidental with the target schedulee



- 31 -
Cost Es5calation
3.27       One of the major cotn:3traints in the im4lementation
of the Cooperative Stor-.ge Project lhas been continuous escalatLon
in the prices of input:; like coe.iont, .teel, brick3s,  Lges of
labourers etc, which resulted in steep increase in the cost of
construction of rur.-l and marketing godowasin the project States.
Con-equently Project's estimute of cost of construction of irodowns
which were based on thebasis of May,1978 prices had to be revised
many times, By wiay of 111ustratlon,the folloow.ing table records
the prices of various construction ;.iterials durin- the project
period in U.P.  Hlowever, increace in the )rices of cement,
steel and bricks are uiore or less a lic;ble in other 2 Project
States.
Prices of Construc%ion llaWLrials
Si. Name of the                   Prices as on
No.  Mla erial         Jan    Jan. Jan, Jan,  an.   an,    an,
-       _      ~      7j  198 191  1282    83  1984   1985
1, Cement Per Mt.(Rs.) 600    600   600   800  1000   1100   1160
(including cartage)
2, Tar Steel Per MIt.
(Rs.) 3900   4050  4750  4750  4850   4850   5550
3, Bricks per 1000
Bricks (Its.)       245    260   260   320   400    450    450
to     to     to
450    500    500
4, Skilled labour
(a) Wlason     'Per  15     18    18    18    30      30     30
(b)Carpenter   )nit  16     20    20    20    30      30      30
t'per  -
(c)Black Smith Iday  12     15    15    15,   25      25      25
5. Unskilled labour
per unit per day(Rs.) 6.5     9     9    10    15      15     15
3.28     The above table reveals that from Janua-y,1979 to January,
1985 the cost of cement increased by 93%, Stee1 42.3% bricks 83.7%,,
skilled labour 100A, and unskiledl labour 130.8,%
3.29     Some broad idea of the effect of increase in the cost of
building miiaterials could be gauged from increase in the base cost
of construction of 6odowns,



. 32_
3,30       The following two t;b'W1Ls ,g,ive  idtea of th11e increaze
in the base cout of con:struction of rurol godo-.nsM in Utt;Sr Pr,-ionh,,
TABLE NO. 1
Increase in Bade cost of 3368 godoVnsc 100 N.T. capacity
-P nti     b.y  t..te  tovt,WCDC in UttarPradesh,
S. Year of No. of                    Base cost of construction
No,sanction 6'a7ocieties                                eW7:O0/-F-5115m/m
Ns Anri:L,    (Sept.  (Au,.ustq  (Febo,  (Nov.,
1918      1979)    1960)    1982)   1983
1. 1978-79    1000        206        169       35       590      -
2, 1979-80    1750        -          360     139       1251      -
3. 1980-81     450        -          -         24       426 
4, 1981-82     -          -          -                           200
Total:      3200        206        529     198       2267      200
TAM, NO. 2
Cost of constrniction of rural Goionms of
50 tonnes of each in hill Areas in U.b,.
Year of    No. of               Base cost of construction
S..nction   Soit4eo    SNO(X)7-              7        0:.3  rt/X  9  4;57ffi. 3   W
1978-79       68          -          15          22        31 
1979-80      100          25         -           22        52         1
Total:       168          25         15          44        83         1
3e31          It would bc _cn frouL the above tables that the base cost
of a 10O tonnes rural godouzn wfith RCC roofinS and residence for the
Manuger increw;:ec from 4, 58,0U0/- to is.1,l5,000/1- Out of 3368 rural
godoums constructed in U.P., 22o7 rurail godo;.na vwere ,anctioned at the
base cost of Ri;.98,000/- por [;odown. Only 206 ruru1 godowns xere
sanctioned at the original base cost of Rs.58 000/-. In hilly areas, out
of 168 rural godowns sanctioned and constructecl, 83 rural godo.sn were
sanctioned at the base cost of fl;.84,500/. and 25 rural godo=ms at the
original base cout of Xts.24,000/-.
3.32          In Orissa also the cost of 100 tonunes Godow'n  with RCC
roofing and reSidence of -dhe .Jecvtary increase from h,58,000/-
in April, 1973 to Rs.72,,000/- in February, ls8O and further
tU Rs.819000/- in Augusto 19l, Ls.98,000/- in June 1982
and further to Rs, 1,06,000/- in November, 1983   TRare has
been corretspondifng increaLses in the cost of construction



- 33 -
of godowns of other specialisation revealed in the following tables-
Increase in Cost of Construction of
Godowna in OrissaL
(Rs. in thousand)
Type of the                Date of J   r- --val
godown  t.78102e80  17,8.81                            216.8213
50  T(ACR) WR     25         28      32        42        44,5
50  T(RCC) WR     25         32      -         44        48.0
50  T(ACR) R      38         44      52        64        68.0
.50  T(RCC) R                         -         68        73.5
100 T(RCC) llR    46        5s       61        78        84.0
1 00 TD(KC) 14    58         72      81        98       106e0
100 T(ACR) R      53         68      77        95       100.5
100 T(ACR) WR     41         52      57        75         79.0
Note:- ACR - Asbestos Concrete Roof, RCC - Reinforced
Concrete CGmont.
ti - Without iosidenco, R - With Residence.
3.33   In H1aryana also the original b-ase cost of Rs.58,000/- of 100 tonnes
capacity rural godown with RCC roofing and the Manager's residence
increased to Rs.75,000/- in October, 1979, Rs.82,000/- in May, 1981,
PRs,88,000/- in December, 1981 and Rs.96,000/- in September, 1982.
3,34   The World Bank Review Mission which visited India many times
during the currency of the Project took note of the escalation in
the cost of construction of the godoins in project States and made
many useful suggestions in this respect.
3,35  'the worli Isank Review Mission which visited India in May, 1982
expressed the view thtt the cost of esc.lation was due to general
price increase in the construction materials, and also due to delays'
in callinn of tenders, delay in anpraisal of suh-project at b4ink's
level and time-leg in agreeing to increased cost by implementing
Authorities.  The World B.ink suqgested th.t in order to avbid re-
appraisal of the sub-project due to cost escalation, sensitivity
analysis of the unit uto which it could absorb cost esc'lation miqht
be worked out by the BanK at the time of the appraisal to avoid delays.
3.36   The Review.Mission in January/February, 1983 suggest3d that in
order to keep further cost escalation at the minimum, increased
efforts were required to speed up nroject implementation; progress
monitoring needed to be imoroved furthers staffing problems had
to be resolved quickly: levy cement and imported cement needed to
be made available in increased qu.intities and the time-leg between
loan sanctioning and construction. si.irting which was excessive
had to be reduced.
.3.37   The World Bank had suggested that sensitivity analvsis should
be applied in order to work out economic viability of the rural
godowns as a zesult of cost escalation, However, the World Bank did
not relax the stipulation that SCB would have to seek fresh approval
from NCDC and State Government for agreeing to increass in the cost
escalation In the construction of rural godowns even If the sub-
project was found viable after increase in the cost escalation on the
basis of sensitivity analysis. In many cases, the delay caused in



-34-
seeking aporoval of tho State Govts. to the revised cost of
construction of godowns resulted in further revisior. in the cost
of construction requiring fresh approval of NCDC and State Govts.
Such delay in seeking approval defeated the purpose of revision
and also caused slippage in the progress of construction.
3.38    It is gen^erally not enough to use sensitvity analysis
which deals with the study of impact changes in costs and.
returns on the profitability of the project, Sensitivity
analysis become more useful only if it is backed by changes
in procedures and systems so as to speed up the decision making
process. In case of this Projec.t the Implementing Authority
should have been authorisod to take decision without seeking fresh
approval from NCDC and St;ite Government* if after the sensitivity
analysis, the project w;s found viable, In these cases the
Implementtnq Authority should have only intimated to NCDC and
State Government about it, decision and should have called
tenders on the basis of enhanced costs and negotiate terms
and conditions and take n.icessary actions for construction of
godowns.
3.39    The Implementing Authority could keep ready the viability
of the project on the basis of a large number of changes in
crucial variable affecting the cost of godowns. In any case,
the modes operandi of the implementation of the project should
have been such as to hasten the decision making process. Some
sort of trigger mechanism could have been decided on the basis
of sensitivity analysis.  $ensitivity analysis  coupled with
trigger mechanism for decision making would have but down the
cost escalation by minimising the time-leg between increase in
cost of construction and decision to go ahead with the implementation.
Short SxUwlX of Construction taterials
3.40    Considerable difficulties were experienced during the
earlier years in the procurement of building materials like
bricks, cement and steel,   Neither the project authorities
nor the contractors were able to procure bricks even at high
prices due to shortage of railway wagons and hike in the prices
of diesel. Due to shortage of Railway wagons the brick kilns
could not get adequate and timely supply of coal. In this
.regard NCDC advised the State Governemts to start brick kilns
in the cooperative sector with a view to easing the tight
situation. The supply position of bricks improved, but prices
continued to be high.
3.41    The non-availability of cement at approved rates ha4 been
a serious impediment to the construction programne. The NCDC
advised the SCBS to take suitable steps to arrange special
quotas of cement from the State Governments- for the purpose.
NCDC itself took up the matter with the Government of India and
Cement Controller of India for making special allocation of
cement for construction of godowns in the Project States.



35m
In many cases, the State Governments were not
able to provide cement required for construction
of godowns within the State quota as the State.
Governments cncrully gave priority for schemes
relating to irrigation projects. Even in case
where cement allocations were made, adequate
quantities could not be procured on account of
closure of cement factories due to power-cut, strike
etc., in some cases.
3.42     Durin,g the period, there was a severe
constraint on the availability of bars and tor steel
required for the construotion of godowns, The
Project Implementing Authorities could not get
adequate and timely supply of steel at controlled
rates, As such construction schedule got hampered,
3,43     The NCDC took up the matter with the
concerned authorities repeatedly. As a result, the
project States were able to receive special quota
for construction of godowns. The construction of
godowns gathered momentum and covered the initial
slippages.
Award of Tenders
3.44     The response of reputed contractors to
tenders floated by SC3s had not been encouraging
mainly due to scattered and interior locations of
the godownso This was further compounded by the
steep rise in prices and non-availability of building
materials like bricks, cement and steel as a result
of which some contractors discontinued the conistruc-
tion works and contractors were not forthcoming to
take up the works for the godowns at places where
large irrigation works of Government and industrial
development works was going on as they found
tendering for irrigation works etc. more profitable
than that for rural godowns. The poor response
of the contractors to tenders for rural godowns was
brought to the notice of he World Bank Review Missione
3.45     Apart from poor response of contractors
to tenders, there had been some practical
difficulties in method ofawarding tenders.
The Second World Bank Mission in its report



-36-
dated 25th August.1980 quoted incidence of w:arding of
tendiers to the Cooperativo Labour and Construction Societies
by Haryana State Cooper tive I3ank in Haryana without
following competit.wlv biiiuing Qroci.dure.s, In some cases, the
3t;.,c Cooporativoe Baks in 1I; ryuna awaided tenders by negotia.
tion:; %;ithiut followin;  tonwcr procodures. flowever, it was
noted that 'the cost of those godolons nllotted by negotiatlon
wure , however, in rtii-e of the lo-aest price contlracts awarded
under the tendler procedures.
3.46      The ;Jorld Banl; iReview Iiission was of the viJw th.^t
t'is sy;;t;:m of allotment by neLotiation mi:)it lead t coamplaints
from the potential contractors 2nd mi.;ht also be considered
in violation of section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement,
The Mlission also took note of the Govt. of U.P. proposal of
assigning construction of zsome 5:)CX PCS godo%=s to the 3tate
'Rural Engineering Departmente
3,47     In a meeting; with World Bfaik Review Mission on
diff3culties experienced in implementaltion of Legal Convenants
of Project on 17ol2,80, the INCDC representative menitioned
that the Agreement provided that Civil Wlorks of rural goCo-.o.ns
constructions would be awarded on the basis of local bidding
in accordance with the procedure acceptable to the Association,
In thliS context the W'.orld Bank Supervision Mission had
suggested two tenders being floated for each rural godown,
which were time consuming, and the societies had to incur
additional expenditure.
3,48.    In consultation with the W.lorld Bank, it was
decided that wdhereas the response was not encouraging, even
after the refloating of tenders, then the PCS could resort to
"Amanill construction of god_.;ns themselves under technical
superv:;ion of the Enginoerin" Staff of the State Cooperative
Bmk.  However, there was no need for refloating tenders
especially in the int4erior and romote n.reas where the
contractors were unwillingr to tender.,  The impl-r!zientin-7
autlhorities could be allowed to go alead with the construction
of godowns after the first competitive. tendes.
3.49     Due to poor response of the contractors to undertake
the construction work of riural godowns, the project States
followed different systomz in completion of &odow.ns, For
instance, U.P. State Coolxrative Bank adopted 3 systems for
completion of godovns namely construction on Contract basis,
construction by the societies under technical supervision of
the SCB and lastly Labour Contract with Departmental supply of
construction materials, 2164 rural godonms were completed
under contract basis, 428 by the societies under the technical
supervision of the S(B and 776 godowns under the third system.



-37-
3.50   It was experienced by SCB in U.P, that the godowra
which were completed on labour contract under direct
supervision of Junior Engineers were completed in lesser
time with better quality of work while those oompletAd under
contract system took more time with tolerable quality of
worko The godowns which were completed. by PACS themselves
were of good quality but took more time to complete.
3.51    In Haryana 296 rural godowna were given to the
PACS for construction. However, the progress was not
satisfactory, With effect from 1.7,83 the construction of
residual rural godowns were entrusted to the Construction
Cell of the HARCOBANKe,
nsufficien  v.ailabiliV of Tehia   ta
3.52    The SCBs were entrusted with the responsibility of
construction of rural godowns in all the 3 project States
after they were sanctioned by the NCDC. In order to carry
out the works efficientlyt the Engineering Cells with
adequate man-power specified in Project Report was to be
created in each project States. NCDC advised the States
Cooperative Banks to recruit and position the professional
engineering staff envisaged in the Projeot Report for the
implementation of the project. The Protect State encountered
many  difficulties in the initial years in fining suitable
technical staff for construction of rural godowns. During
the review of the staffing pattern in 1980, it was found
that the field level staff particularly at the level of
Junior Engineers was most inadequate in the project States.
It was not possible for the technical project staff
. to undertake day to day supervision, conduct field studies
and visit every godown under construction.
3.53   The recoruitment, training and deployment of staff
during the project period has been dealt at length under the
section institution building, 
Limitations of&Poject A2prgach
3,54   In the formulation  appraisal, implomentation and
supervision of this Project, the World Bank followed Project
Approach to the letter even for small rural godowas of 50
tonnes located in the interior of the ProJect States.  The
major components of the Project Report are as follows:-
i) Treatment of construction of each godown as a
separate sub-project.
ii) Preparation of loan application and sub-pxoject
report for each godown.
iii) Appraisal of each sub-project by SCBs on the basis of
management criteria, Technical Criteria, finanxcial
and viability criteria.
iv) Periodical physical supervision by SCB concerned,
NCDC and IDA.



-38w
-In some cases strict application of
Project Approach delayed the sainctioning of the
odowns and upset the construction schedule. In
8rissal, the progress of rural godowas was
staggered as the State Government initiated a system
of locational studies after the approval of sub-
projects by the Banks.
3.56    The Project approach has definite advantages
as it enables the implementing authorities to follow
a particular system in formulation, preparation,
appraisal, implementation etc. of the project.
Nevertheless, it may be useful to have a fresh look
on    documentation required for the sanction of
the godownse
3,57    A suggestion was mooted during discussion
with the World Bank Appraisal Mission for NCDC-In,
that only 10 percent of the societies to be
selected at random basis at diatrict level should
fill in a detailed loan application form and the
rext of the societies will only fill in a shorter
version of the loan application, It will help in
quick disposal of the applications and availability
of more reliable information,
3.58    In case of godowns of higher denomination,
project approach covering technical, financial,
management and financial criteria would be necessary,



- 39 -
Disbursement
3.59     The project cost of NCVC-I over a period of 5 years
for the construction of 8654 rural and marketing godowns,
technical assistance for 0 & M Studies, purchase of ,engineering
equipment and vehicles, physical and price contingencies was
estimated at ls.549.9 million and was to be financed as under:
(Percentage)
Agency                Uttar Pradesh           Orissa
and Haryana
1.  NCDC through            47                 47
SCB as loan
to Beneficiaries
(World Bank
Fund)
2.  NCVU  through           13                  3
SCB as loan to
Beneficiaries
(NCDLi''s own
funds)
3.  NCDC to State           15                  25
Govt. as loan
(2
4.  State Govts. to         20                  20
Beneficiaries
5. Beneficiary
Cooperatives             5                   5
Tl'otal:    ~  100               100
(1   State Govts. will pass this to the beneficiary
Cooperatives as equity contribution.
(2   State Govts. will pass this to the beneficiary
Cooperatives as equity except in tribal areas of
Orissa where this 20 percent wc4i'd be given as a
grant.
3,60    The IDA credit of $30 million was to meet 47h of the
cost of the Project. The remaining 53 percent was to be met
by NC*DC(28 percent), State Govts. (20 percent) and participating
cooperatives (5 percent). In other words, NCDC was on-lending
agency for 75 percent of the tost of the project - 47 percent
contribution by the Wiorld Bank and 28 percent NCDC's own funds.
3.61    The claim filed with IDA through Controller of Aid accounts
as well as the claims in pipeline upto the end of December,-1984
wouid account for $29.7 million of the total IDA credit of
$30.0 milli6n. The IDA credit closing date was 31st December, 1984
and the WVorld Bank Review Mission which visited India in November/
December, 1984 has agreed to honour withdrawal applications
received upto the end of 30.6.85.



-40-
3.62   NCDC from 1978-79 to 11th Feb., 1985 has released
Rs.439.28 millions to the three beneficiary States under various
items of expenditure, the details of which are given in table-I
in Annex-II.
A Summary table iS given below:-
. Amount Released under NCDC-I
ttpto 11th Feb.. 1985.
(Rs. in millions)
State          Release to                     Total
SCB       State Govt.           _
Uttar Pradesh 207.28   50.67                  257.95
Haryana       -83.58   20.45                   104.03
Orissa         51.82   25.48                   77.30
Total:    342.68   96.60                  439.28
3.63   Thus by the end of 11th Feb., 1985, NCDC has released
Rs.439.28 millions which could roughly be taken as'75 percent of
the likely expenditure incurred by the beneficiary States by that
date.
3.64    NCDC had, however, sanctioned project cost of the
order of Rs.586.9653 millions before the end of Ju'ne, 1983 except
for R.23 millions which was sanctioned in June, 1984 in respect
of 200 godowns in U.?. The sanction of the fresh programme in
June, 1984 was due to a accretion of additional IDA credit in
terms of Rs. on'afcount of fluctuation in fs.value of dollar.
3.65   Disbursement of financial assistance under the Cooperative
Storage Project (NCDC-I) has gone ahead, by and large, according to
the schedule except in the case of technical component of the
Project.
3.66    An outlay of Rs.6.5 million was provided for technical
assistance. Against this Rs.4.1695 million was sanctioned upto
June, 1983. The actual expenditure was of the order of Rs.3.8450
millions which is 59 percent of the estimated cost under this head.
3.67    The main reasons for low utilisation of assistance
provided under technical component was less expenditure on
0 & M studies as compared to appraisal estimates, and nil
expenditure on purchase of motor-cycles and paddled bicycles.
Exienditure by State Govts.
3.68    The total expenditure on rural and markoting godowns incured
by the 3 Project States has been collected and given in table 2



'.41
of Annex-II.
Total expenditure under Cooperative
Storae ProJect by Benefiiar Sttea
(IRs.in Millions)
State2                          E2Menditr
Haryana                             99.53
(Upto Dec., 1984)
Uttar Pradesh                      278.88
(Upto June, 1984)
Orissa                              51.27
(Upto Feb., 1985)
Total:      429,68
Payment which have been made after the dates
mentioned are not included.
InstituLtion MD16dnas
3,69     The physical objectives of the project, according
to World Bank, is to construct godowna in three States of
Haryana, OrisSa and Uttar Pradesh, However, the primary
obJectives are in institution building. First, the aim is
to mnko NCDC grow into a more effective and viable develop-
ment institution,' The Plroject would strengthen NCDC as a
development finance institution for the cooperative sector
not only for rural storage but also for other agricultural
processing, industrial and marketing type activities. By
becoming a stronger and more professionally oriented
organisation, NCDC's autonomy would be increased and its depen-
dence on government contribution would be reduced.
3,70     Apart from strengthening NCDC, the Project is
meant to promote a stronger cooperative infrastructure in.rural
areas. The Project would also assist other participating
institutions to strengthen their capacities and procedures.
*The Project would greatly assist in institution building at
lower levels which is in accordance with Government of India
policy to create growth centres at the level of Panchayato



42
Conce2t of Institution Building
3.71    The WYorld Bank has elaborated on the objectives of
institution building but have not precisely defined institution
building. 'The intention perhaps is to strengthe1 horizontally
and vertically the entire cooperative structure in the
beneficiary States. Institution building may be identified
with the building of organisational frame-work within which
the objectives, plans and policies are formulated; systems,
methods, procedures, rules and regulations are rationalised
and streamlined; men, money, matarialss machines and methods
are assembled for their accomplishment; men are motivated and
directed; physical and human resources are coordinated; their
performance are supervised, monitored and evaluated and
controlled in.line with the objectives.
Objectives and Key Indicators of Institution Building
3e72    The Project Report has tabulated major objectives and Key
indicators in respect of institution building of NCDC and Stat
Cooperative Banks. The institution building of NCDC and SCBs
has been dealt separately in the following paragraphs.
InstiLtution Building of NCDC
World Bank' a K.ey IndicatorA
3.73    The major objectives of institution building of NCDC are
to develop it Into a more effective development financial
institution for the cooperative movement and as a new channel
for Bank Group Funds. The key indicators of Institution
building of NCDC, according to the Project Report are as follows:0-
organisational restructuring alongwith lines of MDI
Study and recommendations of IDA,
implementation of improved accounting and management
information systems.
- preparation of procedure manuals.
- purchase and use of about 110 sets of engineering
and measuring equipmente
- purchase and use of the vehicles.
disbursement by IDA and utilisation by NCDC (through
Government of India) of US $30 Million IDA credit for
storage lending.
3.74    The World Bank has assigned the key role to NCDC in the
implementation and performance of World Bank Cooperative Storage
Project.  NCDC, as the prime implementing agency9 assist,
coordinate and monitor the activities of other participating
agencies at all phases of project implementation and maintain
active liaison with the Governments of all the three States and
Government of India,



43
3s75      The major steps taken by NCDC to develop itself 'into an
effective on-lending institution and to assist, coordinate and
monitor the activities of other participating agencies at all phases
of project implementation are:
a) restructuring and staffin, the Fertiliser/Inputs and
Storage Divisions at headquarter giving greater.
emphasis to investment appraisal, godown construc-
tion anid monitoring;
b) reorganising and upg!rading its Regional Offices into
Zonal Offices which would function as NCDC's branches
with adequate delegation of powers to the Zonal Managers;
c) appointment of Project Officers at the Zonal Offices
specially assigned to help the implementation of this
project;
d) formation of an Organisation and Mlethods (O&M) depart-
meat at headquarters;
e) setting up Evaluation and Statistics Division;
f) setting up MIS Division with the facilities of a computer;
g) opening of new offices in Madras, Simla, Ahmedabad in
order to provide more effective suppokrt and supervision.
3.76      Some important aspects of institution building of NCDC are
described in details below:-
Esvylug1tion nd Statistics Division
3.77      In accordance with the recommendation of the Project Report,
NCDC has established an Evaluation and Statistics Division in 1982
headed by an Economist and supported by one Deputy Director, three
Assistant Directors and 6 Assistants (Statistics) with the following
major functions:-
i) To assist the Corporation in making periodic assessment
of the performance of the schemes/projects undertaken
by NCDC in different States,
ii) To carry out performance evaluations on all completed
projects financed by international Aid e.g., World Bank,
EEC.
iii) To conduct Evaluation Studies on operational policies and
rulc on subjects the Managing Director determines to
wnrrunt examination with a view to identify areas for
improvement in thie formulation of policies and procedures
and their applications.
iv) To conduct special studies designed to evaluate the total
impact of the schemes/projects undertaken by NCDC on the
farming communities*
v) To collect, maintain and dissemlnate statistical data on
the activities of the NCDC and provide information to
MIS D'vision in appropriate forms.



44 -
vi) To assist the Appraisal Team in its work,
vii) To bring out annual publications giving statistical
information in suitable tables  graphs etc.
regarding activities of the NCDC.
viii) To highlight the porformance of WCDC and strengthen
cooperative cause through contribution of Articles
and Papers in newspapers and cooperative journals.
Salient Achievements of the
Evauaton and Statisticg Division
3.77    Within a short period, the 43valuation and Statistics
Division lhas finalised systlem, procodures, methods and design
of a large number of Evaluation Studies relating to rural and
marketing godowns financed under the godown component of the
World Bank Cooperative Storage Project and other important studies
assigned by the Board of Management from time to time,
3.78    This Division has completed the following Evaluation
Studies in respect of World Bank Cooperative Storage Project:
Name of the Study            Beneficiary            Date of
Ste                   comDletion
lo Report of the Evaluation   Haryana           November, 1983
Study of World Bank
Cooperative Storage
Project.
2, Report of the Evaluation   Uttar Pradesh    November, 1983
Study of W.forld Bank
Cooperative Storage
Project.
3. Report of the Evaluation    Orissa           March, 1984
Study of World Bank
Cooperative :Jtoragq
Project.
4. Evaluation Study on the     Orissa           Under final stage
impact of rural godowns                      of completion.
on the farming community
3e79   In addition to above studies, this Division has couple.;
ed a large number of evaluatlon studies relating to other
spheres of the activities of the NCDC such as fruit and vegetable
cooperative processing societies9 availability of oilseeds in
selected districts of Orissa, availability of rapeseed in Nehsana
and Banaskantha districts of Gujarat, Adoption of villages scheme
etc.



3.80     The Division is also engaged in appraisal of the various
projects which are posed to NCDC for financing by the Cooperative
institutions in vurious states. This Division is also called
upon to give advice on many matters on policies eag. district
planning, training germane to the working of NCDC.
3.81     The World Bank Review Mission which visited India during
October/November, 1983 has assessed the achievement of Evaluation
Division in the following words;
"Given the present staffing arrangement the small
evaluation team has done a remarkable Job"*
Re-organisation of Staff
3.82     In order to enable the Corporation to become channelising
agency for tho ID)A aid/crodit, the World Bank suggested
strengthening and re-organisation of the structure of the NCDC
along with improvement in staffing and introduction of an
acceptable accounting and management information systems.
The issue of reorganisation of the set-up of the Corporation
was considered in depth by the Sub-Committee appointed by the
Board of Management, NCDC. The NCDC implemented the recommenda-
tions.of the Sub-Committee.  The staffing pattern as on
24,2.1979 reflect the effect of Sub-Committee recommendationse
With increase in work load of NCDC as a resalt of NCDC-XI
4.E.C. Projects, NCDC-III, the staff strength of Officersf
level increased considerably with more induotion of technical
expertise, field staff and training component, the details
of which are given below:-
Sanctioned posts of officers in the NCDC
Prior to       After        Present
reorganisa-    reorganisa-  Position as
tion as on     tion as on   on 30.12.84
Managing Director                1               1             1
General Manager                  1               1             1
Financial Adviser                1               1             1
Chief Directors                                 4              4
Chief Directors (Topic)                  -                     -
Management Consultant            1               1             1
Director/
Regional Directors               5              17            18
Consultant/Technologist/
Specialist                      12              20            30
Trainer (R, 1500-2000/-)         -                             2
Trainer (Is.1100-1600/-)                         am            3
Deputy Directors                13              18            28
Deputy Directors (TOPIC)         - d
3yatom AnAly0t                   - 1



-46-
Prior to re-   . fter re-        Prasent
orqanisaticn   or,'ni:ation    position as on
as on 23.2,79  -s 'n 24.2.79   30.12.84
'Senior Programmor                        -               1
.. : t.Dir./Vi+lt ...  ....... 17      27              49
Officers
As tt.Dir('lOi lC)                -                       2
Project Officers          -               8               8
Asris3t.ant rl1itor        -              I               1
Commrnrcial Artint         -              1               1
Libr.,r1 i;.n              1              1               1
itindi Officer             1              1               1
53            102             147
Training
3.83   As a part of its promotional role, the NCDC his been
t;iking ictive interest in improving and up-grading the managerial
comnretence and skills of the various Professional functionaries
of the coonerai-ive markoting and procescing societies in the
country.
3.84   In this direction, the Coz,oration has been associating
itself with the National Council for CooDerative Training
(NCCT) in evolving suitab)le tzaining programmes for the
various citegories of such personnel, and for this purpose,
has been providing financial assistance tothe WCCT towards
cost of organising useful functional training programmes
through its n-twork of 16 Conpervtive Training Colleqes,
since 1974-75,  Unto the year 1983-84, a total assistance
of Pr.0.552 million was provided to the NCCT towards cost of such
nrogrammes. An assistance of Ps.28,200/- was also provided
t- NCCT fcir nw-ard of c.1.wh prftns to the meritorious trainees.
3.85   The NCDC h.is also been subsizising the cost of specialised
training for staff of Cooperativos attending progiammes conducted
by reputod management develornment institutes in the country,
like the Indian Institute-of Mana;ement(IIM) at Ahmedabad,
B1angnlore and Calcutta, the Administrative Staff College of India,
Hyd, rabad, the Management Develo ment Institute, New Delhi,
the Vaikunth Mtshta Natinnal Institute of Coop. Management Pune,
the Fertiliser Association of India, New Delhi etc. In addition,
the NCDC has also been financing some special programmes in the
sphere of its activities in coll& oration with the above
mentioned management institutes.
3.86  'The Cor,oration has also b,een snonsorinq spc:tqific training
progrnmm-s in collaborntion with international acencies like
M4ATCCM (M4aterial and Technic,ues of Coop. Management), a  subsidiary
,f Il,O foi t1h-' hrntfit of Con -- rtivo ptroon-tl.  Duiring the
-oir 1111t12, thtl tNtUCx ntoroiml .o  ' roqrn,mrm on Transport
14-n;gement btsed on MiXi'CON materi-.l at VWINICiI, Pune,  A specialised
progi, imme for the m.lnagers of Cooi,eratiLve cold storaiqes,
covnreol unde:r the Wiorld 13ank Projo t, wis org-nisod in
collaboratinn with tlh. Xnstitutc of Coo!er.Itive M-n-!gament,
Reserach &. Train ing, Lucknow.



-47-
Project Topic
3.87    In the meeting held on June, 4, 1981 the Board of Management,
NCDC, had approved the establishment of Project TOPIC (Training of
Personnel in Cooperatives) for a neriod of 5 years i.e. from
1981-86, The main objectives of project TOPIC are to identify
traintng needs, design training r)rogrammles, train the trainers,
produce trnininq materitil and ev;Alu.;te the training programmes for
ner-sonnal workine in primary, secondary and apex level agricultural
cooperatives in tlie ten States covcre.d A nd'.-r NCDC-I & II and
EE1C Rural Stor.tqo Project.
3.88    The establishment cost of this Project was to he shared
equally between the NCDC and the imnlementing agancies i.e. the
implementing banks and the marketing feder-vtions in the
participating ten States.covered under NCDC-I/EEC and NCDC-II
Project (Storage). 'As contribution were being received from
several agencies. The TOPIC was given a separa.te identity
although, it hns not spocific leonl statuo.  The funding of
tralining programmes were shared amongst NCDC# the implementing
banks, marketing federations, state Govts. and the training
institutes.
3.89    The programiues were conducted in the existing cooperative
Training Collecges and Coooer;itive Training Centres who had
training pro'jrammes of their own. As such the proglress of
Project TOPIC has not been very satisfactory.
3.90    Under the NCDC-III ;13 the World Bank and the NCDC will be
meeting the entire cost of the training programme  and moreover
as the Projcect TOPIC weas establi,hed only for the period 1981-860
it has been decided to merge he Project TOPIC with NCDC. This
has been approved by the Board of Management in $ts 31st Meeting
held on 12.9.1984. Henceforth, the training programmies under
the NCDC-II will also be looked after by the Triiniag Wing of
the NCDC.
3.91    As a part of the World Bank assisted NCDC Storage Project-IIX,'
the NCDC propose to supoort establisl'ment of 6 new Cooperative
Training Institutions in the project States of Uttar Pradesh,
Orissa (NCDC-I beneficiary States), Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Bihar and Karnatakca. Mobile Training Centres for the Junior
personnal are also proposed to be introduced.  A Cooperative
Trainer's Training-cum-Material production Centres may also
bo setup for the production of training materials. 60 coonerative
Training Centres are proposod to be strengthened under the'
Project, The schemes are being imolemented in financial
collaboration with IDA.



-48-
3.93     The progress and 4achieveinents of Project TOPIC as on 1S.8.84
.are is under:-
1Ueview of Achievement of Project TtPIC (under
F3CfA -I ., II World flHt,k ":l.eme -;tor.ic';oCoMpgnqnt
S.1lo.  States    Nlo. of     No. of     No. of Coon.         No. of trainers in
Managers   Managers   Trg. Colleges/        faculty of coop.
of P.ACS    of PM1.5   Centres enga.ged     trg. Colleges
trdlned    traiind    in imparting trg.   undergone training
upto       upto      of Managers           at the NCDC's
-          _        _;15.8.1984  15.8.84     _ora_ 2gnised.  urse
1, 11aryana        11il        Nil           N.A.                   NoA,
2. Orissa           51          *              1                      36
3.  U.P.           333          *            N.A.                     42
4.  A.P.           904         11              6                      40
5,  Bihar           -          81              1                       1
6.  Ii.P.         1284          -              3                       6
7 .iaharashtra    297         116              5                      10
0.  Punjab         241          -              1                       -
3110       208             17                     135
Ntlr. s  *  Included in column 3
N.A. Not available.
3.94      According to information available as on October* 1984,
57 courses on operitional managewtent for Managers of PACS and
PAMS and 11 courses for trainers'-training programmes has been
conducted for Project TOPIC at the various Cooperative Training
Colleges under the NCCT.
3,95      The World Bank's observations in their Aide Memoire of
April-May, 1984 Review Mission (para 3.5) hed suggested that
NCDC should examine the possibility of utilising the sum
of the NCDC-II Project savings to impart training to the
backlog of per%onnel covered under Project TOPIC and also
for organising the on-going nrogrammes. A detailed Manpower
Development and Training Progr.-mme under NCDC-II has been
dr-iwn on simtl.r lines a.s thn t.inr.nowr Dnvolopmnnt Tr.aining
Pregrasm_  whicht w:a posed to telu eorldl Bank as a part of the
N4CLC-11l Project.  The plan has been aoproved by the Board
of Mana1ioment in the 31st Meeting held on 12.9.1984. This
plan with an outldiy of Rs.95.28 millions h-s been worked out
for Lhe train-ng of 7252 'D3 c.ategory stiff and 9553 IC' category
staff.
I_PROVW D MANAGEMENT INFO _IATION SYSTEM?
3.96      Recognising its need to have a systematic flow of information
at different levels for sotund decision making, NCDC created a
Manacement Information Systems Division with objectives to design
and operate an integrated manatgement information system (MIS).
3.97      The M.I.S. Division a.sists in monitoring the various
activities of the NCDC with the aiA of an in-house comouter.
The  ori'ie objectives  of the r)iv1sion is to  mqintain



-49-
-a data b -se on thie v,rioun  roj"-ct_ k_^istad hy the Cor, or.ation
.nd ev.;lu:te the prog-es3 ,nd perfotr.;ance of the Iproject assisted
by the Cornor)ti--n.  'rlhc inF!rn; ,tirn system is ,irned it enh.,ncingJ
*. systematic flow of inform.rtioul for -nalysis of nrojlots in
o er.ition 4ntl under dCe!vlo - nt to 'i!lp in sotundl <1ociaion
making and future planning.
3.97   As a back-un to NISS, NCDC 'n s created an Electronic Data
Processing Centre comprisinc9 of:-
a. A computer wiith 128  'i r-ain rnemory:
H. ahrd Disk based s:-)_zystem of 20 mi;0
c. One Tape Driver:
de One 132 colrmn, 300 lin-  aor minute he'vy duty
line printer:
e. wlwo off-line mini dis';ette d.ta prep;.ration device:
f. *An intelligent termin-.1 wzith mini florny drive
-and 64 J'lJ mrnmory.
3.9U   Th-i olnt''.r nic Data v'tocosninUj Centre bec.!me oierable  as
on 31st -l rch, 1983.  Since then the following software packages
have either been develo7ed and imnlemented or are in the piocess
of development:-
1. Projects and Schemes monitorinq package  - Already implemented
2. Godowqn construction mnitoring             - Packaae his already
been develoraed.
Implementation is
under way.
3. Package for monitoring of
completed units.                           - Under develonment.
4. Package for monitorinq of
assisted societies.                        - Under develooment.
5. Package for godo-.n
utilisation monitoring                     - Under development.
3.99   Apart from the above mentioned n,ckages, the MIS Division
has also develo:,eL software for project evaluation, senstivity
analysis, linear programming and budgetary planning.
3.100  The various software pr.-kages that have been developed
or under development have-be--n designed essentially to assist in:
i. I:v.alu.%tJng tho re,.ort/provos,ils during pre-' nction phase:
ii. Monitorinq thn physical progress of the troject and the
aImount releaved by the fllClC duri-n'i the implementation
iii. Performance evaluation of completed '.rojectsand
iv. Moni'-oring the working of societies fininced by NCDC.
3.101 The data base created provides scope for micro level and
macro level analysis of NlCDC's financ4ng activities and its
eff£ct. Such analysis are being used by NCDC now for the
future planuing.
3,102 The Cor oration has also initiated a new scheme to provide
assistance for financing com,ut-rs for state level federations.
This h s been done with a view to help the federations in
improving the information flow and auality of informatlon
vawilln'le with them which wcitlfd ultimately help the federations



-50-
to maktc better decisions.  Under this scheme, NCDC condlucts feas'bility
study for computerisation, provides fin-ince for computer purchase,
if found feasible, assists the federai'ii.s in organtsing their MIS
Division and also assists them in selection of hard-ware and
develonment of software,
_NCDC 's Outal a
3.103    The outlay of the Corporation and annual percentage change
in it from 1976-77 to 1983-84 are given below:    (
(Q~so _imil lions )
Year              Outla            Percentace chanqe
1976-77             313.97                 -
1977-78             314.10               0.04
1978-79             474.94              51.21
l'x7i'-El(     '4'/.14             15.20
1980-81             651.9 2             19.15
1901-82             920.52              41.20
1982-83             961.00               4.40
1983-84            1272.50              32.41
3.104    It will bh  observod from the position stated above that the
outlay of the Corr-oration recorded a hefty spurt during 1978-79 ths
year in wnich the reoganis.tion was clone.  Except during 1977-78 the
pre-project year, ,the Corporation haa maintained a double - digit
growth rate per .annum.
NCDC - the most suitlble on-lendXnq  Institution:
3.105    In order to develop its systems, methods, procedure, etc.
in tune with the most progressive financial investment and
promotional institutions, NCDC has incorporated the concept of
matrix organisation into its traqditionial functional orqanisation.
NCVC matrix type of org.-nisation refleets an amalgamation of
interfunctional resources directed tQwards a special goal having
time, cost and technical performances parameters, It permits the
organis3tion to deal with its stream of projects intelligently
and ratio-nally.
3.106    In order to deal with a specific project in the most
professional mannor, NCDC matrix ap)ronch is proving efficient
and effective. NCDC top management serve as the focal point
of contact for bringing together organisational efforts towards
a single project objective. The functional elements consisting
of management expert, cost accountant, financial expert, economists,
specialists, in management information system, engineers, technologist,
and specialists in cooperatives are drawn in a web of relationships
directed to the beginning and completion, appraisal, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, etc. of the projects are done mostly
independently of the organisation's normal chain of command giving
rise to a " horizontal hierarchy ".



- 51 -
, 107   'ihe wulti-aiscipiinLwy L,jlproucii in ionuulationp appraisal
im:plemiettation awq evaluation has enabled  N=  to study the
ecoiouiuics ot specific pro Jects/scLewes thorou'jily anxd select
those whica would be tecnmically sound, commercially leasible,
finianciully profitable, managerially competent and econoxuically
and socially viable to meet its social and economic obligations.
3.108    Keepin4, in view the reor ,aisation of de.,artments, staffing
pattern, wan&ower plaxuin, recruit;ent and train-ng, streamlining
of methods and procedures, developmenlt of iuanagement information
system, and creation of evaluation divisioii, increase in outlay
anf  diversification of Activities - iv'jCC could be regarded as. the
uost effective on-lending a,;ericy for any cooperative development
projuct under Intenilalional Aius.
Ihi:titution J3uildini,. oIf ;tite vuoiJur Utve gianklc:
Se109    The eriuiary purpoue of LintitutiOn building of State
cooperative banlks in the project Statest according to World Bank,
was to build up the long;-teri .u un±ncing capabiLity of SCii for
storage and other similar development projects, Th'e xey indicators.
a,iven by World Bank for the attainment of the objectives of
instizution buildi1injg of State Cooperative Banksare as followss-
Establishment of engineering cells each with 1-2
executive engineers, 4-11 assistant engineers and
12-3i junior engineers.
- £mployment of Project Promotion sta:.t eacth with
1-2 senior Develol,ment Officers and 8-24 junior
developmenr Officers,
- Effective orgarnisational improvements as. recomaenaed
by {eserve batnk of India.
- Impleaentinr; new training and procedures for processing
of Project Loans and loan administration to be. developed
by ACLIC and the consultants..
- Efficiency of tne operations in terms of:-
a. Interest rates,
b. Interest margana
u. Dubt collectioni ax over-dues
d. Credit expun:iou
e,  Saving mobilization
fe Increase in loans by type
g. Development of owl1 capital
h.  Staff members and caliber
ie Loan numbers and amounts
3.110    In the light of the above indicators, some important
aspects. of the institution building in respect of SCBS of the
beneficiary States are discussed in the following paragraphs.
Hrana State Co2terative Bwn
3.111   h'he tiaryana State Cooperative Bank came into existence
on lst November, 1966 and during thie last eighteen years the



-52-
Bank has put in strenuous efforts for the alround developmnent
of the Cooperative movement. The ilank has successfully
managed to provide adequate and timely financial accommodation
to the needy farmers and other downtrodden section of the
society in the villages. The Bank has been providing. short
and mesdium torm lo.inn for .aqriculturn as wamll as non-agri.
Ctlitt(Ji.)  uptiopoo' Lhtrnu.il 13 "Ontri:ul Coopaorative O3;inks operating
at all the district head quarters (..xcept Mahendragarh District
where two bankn are fu ctioning) in the State.  There are
187 branches of the District Central Cooperative Banks spread
over the entire statc to facilit.ete the working of 2088 primary
Cooperative Credit and Service Societies copularly called as
Mini Banks affiliated to these~ banks.
3.112    The H.ryana State Cooperative Bank serves as a balancing
Centre for the Central Coonerative Banks in the State and function
as an Apox B.nk for the entire 3s3tae an%1 provides financial
assistance to the District Central Cooperative Banks, Sugar Mills,
H-JAFED, CONFED, Dairy Federation and some other Government Ubder-
taking as well. Financial soundness and progress made by the
bank in various spheres of its activities is evidenced from the
table 1 in Annex III.
3.113    Tho data in ther t.tlo nlhows th,it the b:ink h.as achieved
financial soundness in terms of accumul.ition of own-f£nds and
othlor finincial indicitors. meQ tiorowth of deposits in a clear
indication of puhlic faith reposed in the soundness 6f the
working of the bank. The bank holds an envious position in the
depqsit mobilisation in the Union Territory of Chandiqarh where
about 115 branches of various conmercial banks are also engaged
in though competition for tapping denosits.
3e114    The annual profits of the b.-ank have also increased
sionificantly to prrvidc a strong financial bise for the future
working and success of this institution.
3.115    The recovery percentage of the HARCOBANK is 98.70%
of the outstanding dem;:nd for the year 1983-84.
30116   T1e IfAIW :Onvn  adv.:ncen lo.in to the Distr ct Central
Coo.erative B.inks from its own-funds and also ftmds borrowed
from the Reserve Bank of India.  Reserve Bank of India advances
loan to HARCOBANK at 7% and HARCOBANI( in turn advances ttke
funds borrowed from Reserve Bank of India to Central Cooperative
Banks at 7.5% thus earning interest margin of 0.5%. The
funds borrowed from Reserve Bank of India are channelled
to farmers in the shape of short term- loan, medium term
loan and to rural Artisans. The HARCOBANK charges 9% rate
of interest on the adv.ances to CCB's financed from its own funds.



-53-.
3.117   Ths?re h.as been increase in n;hort term  tn(-I medium term
loans advanced by HARCOBANK. The involvemnrt of the bank
has been showing a steep strides in advances year after
year as its total short term and medium term advances .
increased from L-,55.47 millions durinq 1966-67 to Rs.207100 millions
in 1983-84.
Emo      t .of En, in erina and Projact Promotion Staff
3e118   The HARfCOBANK has established Engineering Cell apd
Pvoject Promotion Staff. The details of which are given in
the following tables
ff EMlo=nt ,for the Projectt
Type of Otaff               Target     Achievement
to Executive Engg.            1           1
b. Assistant Engg.            4           4
c. Junior Ingg,              12          17
d. Sr. Deva. OkictI:r
(Project Officer)           1           1
o. Jr. thv. officer           a           9
f. Acctts. & Clerk            2          14
3.19  -The Bank has kept adenuate  strength of the different
functionaries in the Engineering Cell.
Puche otnineerin
3.120 The HAR-COBANK purchased engineering instruments for
an effective implementation of the project. The cost incurred
on this account wns Re.0.2871 million.  The Bank his also
purchaseld the remiisite enqineerinci emninment and instrument
for use by the Engineerinc; Cell of the bank worth Rg.25,000/-,
these are required in connection with the survey, design,
c6nstruction, supervision and nayment certificaition of the
project of godownse
Orc.anis4,t*ional .nm.pvemnts
3.121  Thc ltaryiu,a State Cooperative Bank, HARCO!AX4K
entrusted Agricultural Finance Corroration Ltd. (AEC)
with the assignment of preparation of the project for



-54.
sutting up cn Organis. Con and ici.ods ieptt. in the _3ank, to
establish sound systems ;nd proced.urec  for strenitmienin, its
organisation, staff training i.-ea'lods *:Lth particular reference to
long term lendin., and invesLment finance. The AFC submitted its
'Report on the Organisation and jl1n- .gement Support for the HAcCOWIN7K
udei'l tht.e ;, W;;l k Cooperative Stbr^agut iVroject' in Janu.;xy.1983.
3.122   The umain rocomineii dtiri:s of cunt;uiltLkts of the it;ri ci). url
Fin.nce Couuiu.sciun were CQX1u:Lt,vi-'ed by ;ub-Coijun.Lttce constituted
by the Board of Directors of L1he 3Zaik,
3.123   The Consultants had recoru:;er.de'd that the present loan
dep.!rLment may be style(i A:l A.icultural and flon-Agricultural
DcoWrtmcnt and made re. zonsi.).Le _or v1ction.Ln-, all types of
acriculLur:,l aud uvn-w1;vlctti LLLV .1 10o nI  other th,.n lontg term
lo.ns. The lon" term loaning fujLctiun-* presently handled by the
loaus dcoar Lranert inay be biiLuc.:*t d to new DQparW;ient to bo created
as long term loano; with %ijlch -the project department may be mergedv
Since the Bank han zUlreody Crc; !t :t separate cell headed by
l.1.n.: ger II for Project cnl :;ciem:atic londings, thlle SubmConusittee did not
foel it noc0:;:;.y to clruate indepoadelit long term lo.aning department
as zu:;(teted in tho reulort.
3.124    The conjultaita; lhd rueor;iw.unded the creation of 3 Regional
Oflices of the Bank with four uiztricts under each for undertaking
regular inspectiLn of district cooperative banks under their jurisdic.
tion.
3,125    The Committee felt that Haryana 'oeing a sma2l State, these
Regional Offices as proposed in the report are not n cessary,
However, the Committee recommended that the inspection wing at
Headquarter be strengthened fo- effective supervision and control
over the DCCBs for which necez. ary details may be worked out for
immediate implementations thereof,
3.126    The consultants had sutgested that the planning and develop.
ment department may be or&.nised to i-.vo planning, research, statictics
and uevelopment sectiono and am Inx..uztrial cell. It ..az also suggested
tlhzt an Oal doep,rtiaunt maty be set ul) in the Bank for roviewin, ovorall
activities from time to time anid to devise effective procedures and
-y tiLomi:i Coii 1laiq JI iijl, Uilt) wui'kllL , II: viiij; reg:$vd to ;il typeo', of
bittslit:nia uj'-v 'L.it.i4k :uul Lu ui:twtu    , 'u lllillgui,  ra0 lm     fo0 acund develop-
ment. lVrttlr tle report also rocowi,u:wnded that a separate cell or
section exclu.-ively dealinG witlh Nit fern.ent informuation for collection,
assessment, monitoring the stati5tic3 anfl to assess the progress of
the organisation may be set up.
3.127    The Committee felt that the planning and development section
is already working in the bank hiiich looks after the overall develop-
ment activities of the Comiiiittee as su. .ge3ted by the consultants in
their report, However, the Comuittee suGgested that the plaraUng and
development decpartment be stren,thened to implement the suggestions of
the consultants-
3,128    The consultant after reviewJing the current system Drevailing
in different departments suGgested in their report tihat there should be
an inderendert Internal Audit Wing in the bank as at present SCB has
no internal audit wingo Internal audit is an independent appraisal
activity wi thin an organisution for t1e review of accounting, financial
and other operations as basis for services to management,



-55-
3.129      The Co11lmitteo deciCed 'to croato 6m Internal
ALudit Wling in the !aank tnCer the direct control of
Managing Director as also to i  lec*ent the decision of
tilh Finclaicc Duhp.rtmoiit. K.ocpin;; in vioI; tlhe duties
a-zigned in the Coopora.:Live Stor:,,e Project Report and
tha*t of the State Govt., 'the following duties were
reconminended for the Intern4l Audit Wing:
i)To aulit the accounts of the Head Office
and its branches.                  '
ii)To check the monthly pay bills/bills,
fixation of npy T.A. bills and any other
expenditure exceeding Rl3.lOO/- as desired
by IMI.D.
iii)To help the statutory auditors in their
work to enable them to exqress opinion
on the financial stat6inent.
iv)To-get complied with the observations of
.the statutory auditors and of NABAIUD/RBI
inapection report from the different sections
and to prepatre a consolidated compliance report
for submission to the concermed quarters,
v)Verification of the contractor's running and
final bills before they passed for payment by
XANe
vi)Visiting PACS at random and checking their
books of accounts to find out whether the
accounting entries relating to the storage
pro3ect area being passed correctly.
vii)To make spot verification of the utilisation
of the loan advanced by the bank to its
associate members like IhFI,D, CON{FED, Sugar
Mills, Spinninig Mlills etc* and to verify
their stock statement,
viii)To ensure that the concerned sections :rf the
bank reconcile account witlh the banks/
branches at regular intervals,
ix)Physical verification of the asscts of the bank,



-56-
3,130   It was also decided that no additional staff will
be required to be recruited for the Internal Audit Wing.
Necessary arrangement will be made from the existing staff
strength of the bank. Audit Officer will hold an important
position in the Bank and would be mainly responsible for
coordinating the work of his wing and reporting it to the
Managing Director of the bank. He would direct his team
members by giving them an Independent Audit Programme and
inspection in relation to the specific areas for the
auditing.
3.131   Two separate sections have been established for
the implementation of the project  (i) project Cell-dealing
with initation and sanction (ii) technical cell dealing
with construction of the godovns. Both the sections have
been strengthened with adequate staff.
Training
3.132   Training is required for upgrading the prrfessional
and managerial capability of the various functiona.ries
connected with.the running of the World Bank Cooperative
Storage Project.
3.133   HARCOBANK has started its own staff training
College at Panchkula (Haryana) w.e.f. March, 1982 with
a view to impart in-service and Job-oriented training
to the staff at Apex Bank, Central Cooperative Banks,
Urban Cooperative Banks and the Secretaries and Salesmen
of the Primary Cooperative Credit and Servioe $ocieties.
The syllabus prescribed for training particularly of the
salesmn and secretaries of the. societies covers all
aspects relating to management of storage facilities,
distribution of fertilisers, consumer goods, salesmenship,
modern methods of storage i.e. fumigation, spraying and
other methods of keeping quality of stocks etc.
3.134  'l'ht details of the various categories of staff
trained at the college are given below:
1. Secretaries of PCC and SS                  .      174
2. Clerks/Jr. Acctt./Accountant                      175
3. EBranch Managers of CBs.                           46
4. Clerks of central coop. Banks/Apex
Bank/Urban Banks                                  14
5. Executive Officers of CBs.                         30
6. Introductory course for probationary                9
AMstt. Registrar
7. Project TOPIC' course for Secretaries              57
of societies.



-57 -
UttarPrad_esL% §SJtat CooDerat-iv 4sar
3*13!     The U.P. State Cooperative Bark was registered
in 1944. It is an Apex Organisation of cooperative. credit
structure which provides agricultural credit for ahort and
ujodluli-toxi lovLu to Oliutriut Coupurative Banks by arranging
1'ul£a1G xvtim J Wtu uw 4JiUUr(ouLJ w.u ulvo from Ute National Bunk
for Agriculture and kLural Diveloj-ment (NABARU). The barxt
aluo jroviuua louns to tu4atr IFucturiea, procezsing units.
lilce solveut extractruti  p1witz, i'ice mills, oil mills, cold
storages aild other processing units of Aedium vid large size.
established in the cooperative sector and finances Apex
Cooperative ?vLarketing f'ederations. or commerciaL purchase
and distribution of fertilisers, insecticides, essential
commodities and for meeting their internal requirements,
It also act as a oaLancing centres for cooperative banks and
emnoves regional imbalances uy transfer of surplus funds
from affluent regions to backward regions. Tue Bank has
the following members;-
1. District Cooperative banks   8
2. Apex Institutions.            s       7
3. State Government               3       1
3 1.ib    StAe table 2 in Annec III gives key financial
indicators ox rne bank as per World Bank Report,
The movement of financial indicators.shows that the Bank
is ii sound position, overcues to demand are reasonable,
There has been expansion in disbursement of credit, inorease
in deposit, on funds etc. The profit of the Banks have
been showing increasing trend.
tLat of 2L&g1MerAM- Cell
3.137     The bank took a realistic view of the man-power
needs of the World Bank Cooperative S.torage Project, In
the initial stage of the leroject, the Bank faced many
difficult problems in getting experienced and qualified/
technical staff, however, subsequeatly, the Bank wais abla
to get adequate and experienced engineering and technical
sta&if wilich helped in speedy progress for construction, of
godowrns   *
3.138     The Consultants appointed for this ProJect have
aiven a study report tdetails given oelowj v  wrganisationa
structure and staffing pattern waican nas bee acLopted



-58-
by the Bank, 'Thefollaowint,: table tives staff position of the
World Bank l'ural Goclown I-rojoct (UPC33) as on 31.12.1982 cd
30,6,1984:
S3taff Position of Bank
S1, Name of the Post   As envise.-  INo. of    Posts" Actial Working
tIO.                   ged in the   posts      sanct-   number
Project      recohauen-  ioned  3I31b2 TG4
Report       ded by     by the
thle Consul-Regis.
s-tunts    trar
1. Chiet Project
Officer               1            1          1       1         1
2. Project Man:-ger      1            1          1       1         1
3. Chief Engineer        -            1          1       1
4. Ex.,Engineers         1            5         10       8         6
5. Asstt. Engineers     11           26         36      33        28
6. Jr, Engineurs        55          113        150     128        92
7. Asstto Project
ISngineers            -            4          4        4        4
8. Development Officers 24           24         35      19        18
9, Accountants           4            8         22       17       10
lOoAuditor (Internal)    -            _ -        5       5        10
11 Others                -          223        274     244       247
Total:      4J7            6        534     461      417
3.139      The above tab10 reveals that staff appointed at Bank
under NCDC I has be-en .significantly higher than envis.Lged in the
Porject Report,
Organisational Improvements:
3,140      The Dank oiitrusted U.P. Deve1opment Systems Corporation Ltd.
LuclznoW (UWo..SCO) with the assiEnuent of report(s) for effecting
improvement in organisational structure, staffing pattern, systems,
methods, procedures etc. The UPWSCO submitted the following reports:
1. Organisational structure and staffinng pattern;
2. Accounts maintenance and information systems
at Diviaions;
3. Accounts maintenance and information systems at
Regions and Head Office;
Inte     Audit Systems; and
5. Setting up of O&M Department.
3.141      The recommendation of the Consultants in different
reports alongwith the action taken by UPCB is given below:
0gexisc-tional Structure and Staff__ Pat tern,:
3,142     1Jlhe rmport prupoaud to iclrou.w3o the numblWr of divisional
offices from 13 to 25 but in view of large area and slow progress,



-59-
the Bank took decirion to -utmup 33 offices, The report recouiiended
to increuse the strength, of Junm'lor .r11,i4ieuro to 113 but she Bank
decided to fix the szrength of Junior Engineers at 150. The report
recommended 5 Ilegional Offices but in view of i.nore divisional offices
and increased nunber of Junior enCineers, the Bank decicled to set up
9 Rtegional OfficeL;  As recomnk1uidea,, the Internal Audit Cell has been
entablished and staff pattern as recoij,t,iended in the Report has al.o
hben tc(;vbI)t(!d with co.i'tWin cit;4I! :U111 tlio number as indic:.ited in the
tble i ;lveUn aubove, As recowmILeidud, Uie oclief P-roject Officer is
looking after the work of coxitrol of IThternal Audit Cell along-with
Chief Engineers and Project Manage s,
Accounts Mlaintenance and Information Systems at Divisions
3.143   The U.P. Development Systems Corporation, Lucknow made a study
of accounts maintenance anfd infortxition sy3tems to be adopted by the
Bank for its Rlegional Offices  nmd IIeAd Office under rural godolan
Projecte The recomnendation of ;he re-port covered maintenance of
accounts at Regional Offices, maintenance of accounts at Head Office,
monthly statements at the Regional level, format of maintenance of
accounting books and organisational struc ture,
3.144   The Bank accepted and .implemented all the recommendations of
the report wtith slight modification,  The report had recommedled
preparation of monthily statements at the regional level,  Since the
accounts are rilread,y being urrintainod -at regional level, the Bank is,
thereforo, prepalrrlr, monthly st;'temients at the divisional level instead
of regional level o recosuimendcd iii the report,  The B9nk agreed to the
format prescribed- by Consultancy Cell for the maintenance of accounts
at the Head Office anl divisional offices,  The Bank has, in accordance
with the recommendations of consultancy cell  prescribed functions of
the accotnting personnel at various level. fhe books of accounts at
the divisional-level and at the Ihead Office are being maintained as
sutgmested. Intenial Audit Sect-.on at the Head Office is functioning
in the manner as recommended by the Consultancy Cell,
Setting up of O_ I Donartmaent
3.145  Aspe r sat,,ieotions cont.-i.nud in the report an O&1 Depp:rtment
hias been set up in the UPC3.
Training
3,146   The need of trainin3 and orientation programmc. particularly for
the 8ecretaries of the Primalry Cooperative Agricultural Credit
Societies has been well recof;nised by the Bank,  One Assistapt
Project Manager was api2ointed for This purpose, owhbis working
under direct sunervision of the project officer, The objective
of training secretaries is to m,rke tuiem aw[are of the idea and
purpose behind the rnal storage project so that they may be
able to discharge tlheir duties .accordingly Lnd help in strengthening
the cooperative structure a5 the baoe level in the rural areas,
The secretaries are given. 7-10 days training and 20-25 in number
are sent in each batch,  At present the training is being imparted
at 8 cooperative Training Centres. So far 2500 Secreta:-ies h&ve
been given training particularly in rural godow.ns storage project*



- 60 -
The Orissa State CooDorative Bank
3.147   The Orissa State Cooperative Bank came into existence in the
year 1948 and during the last 36 years the Bank has successfully
managed to provide adequate and timely financial accommodation
to the needy farmers and other downtrodden sections of the society
in thni villn0os. Th1Q B3ank has boon providing short andi M0dium ,
temn loans through 17 Central Cooperative Banks operatingin the
State. There are 215 branches of the District Central Cooperative
Banks spread over the entire State to facilitate the working of
2795 Primary Cooperative Credit and Service Societies. The Orissa
State Cooperative Bank also acts as an Apex Bank for the entire
State and provides financial assistance to the District Central
Cooperative Banks, OSCMF, COIIFED, Jute Marketing Cooperative
Society, TDCC, Wleavers Cooperative Societies, Processing Cooperative
Socictios etc. The Bank's progress can 'e noted from the
movement of key financial parameters from 1977-78 to 1983-84 in
t.able 3 of Annex III. The Bank lhas been able to maintain almost
cent percent recovery. All other financial indicators present a
healthy picture of the working of the Bank.
Em _lovment of Encineorin  and Proj ect Promotion Staff
3.148   Tha OCD lias oastnbliahd zin engineering cell and employed
project promotion staff, the details of which are given in the
following table:-
Staff Position of Bank
S.No.  Name of the Post           As targetted in the  Staff in
-      _____________              -Wo&rld Bank Report    Position
1. Executive Engineer                    1                1
2.  Assistant Engineers                  6               11
3.  Jr.(Field) Engineers                23               26
4.  Sr. Development Officer              1                1
(Project Officer)
S. Accountant/Clerks                     3               24
6.' Jr.(Field) Development
Officer                             14               14
7,  Project Coordinator                  -                1
13 . torkd Sfiaknr                       -                9
9.  Drivers                              -                9
10. Sub-Staff                            -               16
3.149   The Bank has appointed adequate staff to manage the
Godown Project efficiently.
Organisational Improvements
3.150   In accordance with the recommendations of the World Bank,
The Orissa State Cooperative Bank Ltd. commissioned Administrative
Staff College of India, Hyderabad to recommend organisational
and other changes in order to establish sound system and procedures
for strengthening its organisation with reference to long term
loaning and investment finance.



-61.
3.151       The AdininL;trative  ;t;'f Colloge of Intdia oubkitted the
followintr three Reports:
i  Long Term Lounin-, 3y:tem
ii Project Organi-Mtion
iii  Project honitorinm  and Control Sys .em
i) Lonp Torm Loaninr Jyrtcm
3e152       The Cone;ult;onta lw vo rocowmended chang-es in system and
procedures for loun-term lonning which include long term development
fu.idl.n.j p1lir  nclw .foniwtt ifor 4pplicz.t.ion for lon  Q,, aIpr isal
of the a;))licution, re1x;yinent oi loanl and monitoring and oxrganisa-
ticn ior J,ong' Tcau Lo.:ning i.nd disbLasoment-of fundsi,
3.153       The 3aink has establia'hed a separate deparLmont for
long-teim lo;.iing.  lowuevurs Lle i3-nlc lhas not undertaken Long term
development £undinb plan, as tle Bani: has no other scherne for long
term finruicing except 'he on-goinr IDA Storage P'roject, The flank
will keep in view the recommrendation of the consultants while
J:ormulatin.: fresh  tn4 new schemes for long term loaning.
3.154       The Bank has n}ot changed the applicatiun format for loans
as sugf-ested by the Consultan.s * The application format recommended
by the Consultants for longte loan is designed ia a manner other
than the app.Lic..tion format p,,:;ucrihed by UICDC for Ila Storage
Project, The Bank will take up the now application format'if it is
,Ao)rovod by thei 1i.CuC
3.155       The Consultants 1 Yve recomended that the appaisal of
loan application is to be comoleted in two stages. The stage-I
will appraise the past periormnaice of the society and stage-II
will involve ajrui..1 of the sculor.e/project that O;:;CB is supposed
to lend funds for, The Bank is following the appraisal technique
as recommiiiiended by the Consultants. 'he proposal selection is
based on the ap)praisail of loan pro-)o3uls as well as directives of
Governiont of Orissa and Registrar of Cooperative Societibs, Orissa.
3,156       The Connulbants h:tv6 rccoiu..ended that OSCB will maintain
t kn;lw~-Wio ticcotuts to enablu it to monitor and control the
e±Xiciezncy of the scheme, In thle long run, it will be CCBS tlat
will maintain individual society accounts* The Bank is maintaining
godowm-wise accounts as suggested by the consultants. The CCBS are
associated to recover the loan from beneficiary societies on
commission basis. The procedure indicated in the report will be
followed at the time of recovery keeping in view the provision of
the Orissa 3tate Cooporative Societies Act and Rules.
3,157       The Cunsultawts Wh..ve defimed the responsibility of the.
applicant societies DCCB & OSCB for long term loaning, In accordance
wtith the recommendations of the consultants, the applications for
loans are prepared by the societies under the guidance of the Project
Development Officers of the Orissa State Cooperative Bank stationed
at Regional ('ffices.  The aypr aital is done at the Headquarters P&T
Cell. Disbursement of funds is the responsibility of the Accountant
after observance of the forzrlities of documentation, Initial
d1;.;bua,;;cmo.t? ol' Xr.;L in.;taliein:t ol: loan annd share cnpital/subsidy
is miado in tle first phlzCc    After satisfYinge that the godou-n has
reached at the plinth level second instalment is released.



-62.
Proec.t 0rgZnisati2n
3.158       The Report has racommended revitalising, the Project
Organisation at the Head Office and field level by opening
nlegion:al Cells with administrUtive und functional control
directly by the Head Office.
3.159       As suggested by the consultants the Bank has
strent'thened the Head Office PF:T Coll and Regional Cells,,
Tfhe details ol the staff in por;ition has already been
indicated in the previous paragraphsD
3.160       As the CCBs cre no w.ore incharge of execution ')f
construct on,of eodow/nn. of tlh r'ACS, IJuAhPs nd RMS, the OSCB
is exercisin, direct control over the Regional Offices as
su-,gested by the Consultants,
30161       Due to p6ucity of tecnmical staff  no separ'ate
staff could be r.ecruited by the l3ank for rehatilitation work
which is now being managed by the existing teclnical staff at
the Regionitl Offices. Ilowever, one AssiLtunat Engineer has
been appointed for rehabilitation cell and stationed at the
EIead Of.ice,  He has been assigned the duties exclusively for
rehabilitation work,
3.162       The report has sulGested changes in the organisational
structure at the head office to meet the imwediate requirements
which is cAtlled to Plase-I anl organisational changes designed
to c:tter to zhift in the emphaZis from construction to project
identiic.-tion and iAormulation us well as evaluation of completed
projects viz, called Phase-II.  The report has recommended that
the utunaGement of control of project Cell at the IIead Office
should rest with the Mana.ger (Projects) who would report to the
Managing Director. The Ianager (Projects) will be assisted by
Engineering Staff wlith suitable complement of junior supporting
staff.
3,163       The Bank has introduced orgi..nisational arrangements as
suggested by the report.  The functioning of the organisation at
the Hlead Office and Regional Offices level are looked into by the.,
Executive Engineering and Project Offices respectively to the
extent of their functions suggested in the Report.
3.164       The Report has suggested creation of 5 Regional Cells
on the basis of number of bloc1ts, ease of surface communitcation,
geoorTu)hical spread of sub-projectso, The Bank lhas est"lblished
9 Regional Offices to expedite speedy and effective sujerrision
in tho achievements of the plhysical targets within the
stipulated time. The Regional Offices are predominately
construction oriented as suggested in report. The Assistant
Engineer in charge of the Regional Office is monitoring the
supervision of the construction whereas the Project Development
Officer is incharge.of preparation of the sub-project application,
utilisation etc.
3.165      The Report has suggested procedure and personnel
raqu±romonl!ta for the reolibilit":tion of the existing g°odowns.
Accordii3- Lo the flak,, tho rehahbilitation work was started very
late due to paucity of techiical porsonnel.  1iven today, the bank
ha3 not been able to recruit sufficient hands, '2hee is a heavy
tturover of technical personnel at this levelo However, the
implementation of the procedures suggested for the rehabilitation



,63-
in the report has been adopted and being followed both at the
Regional Office level and Head Office level.
EPro is   MWoXtW and Cogtro System
3,166 The Consultants have suggested project monitoring and
Control System to cater the needs of the World Bn nk assisted
rural scorage project, as also performae for management of
future and long term projects of cooperative sector In Drissa*
3.167   The Bank has not followed strictly the project monitoring
and Control System sug',;ested by the Consultantso Though, formats
suggested8in the report are not strictly followed the information
required to be compiled in the suggested formats is being
collected in different performae as given by NCDC, The Bank is
of the view that if NCDC agrees, the formats suggested by the
consultants for collection of information could be adopted.
3.168   The Report has recommended preparation of Quarterly
Material Requirement Forecast giving forecast of requirements
of the materials for the next 6 months, Apart from Quarterly
Material Requirements Forecast Report has recommended that the
material requirement forecast tconsolidated) in respect of each
region of every major item should be prepared for each region
as a whole and of each item should be communicated to the
Head Quarter taking into account quantity in stock with them,
According to the Bank, execution of the project were the
responsibility of CCB earlier and the material planning was
done at the level of CCBo It has been recently decided that
the OSCB will execute construction of godowns directly, material
planning would be done at the OSCB level. The recommendations
and suggestions made by the consultants in the Report will be
followed,
3.169   When the CCBs were in chirge of execution of construction
of godowna, the tendering was done at the CCB level as per the
procedure indicated In the Report. At present tendering is
being done at the level of OSCB. The suggestions of consultants
with regard to tendering of works are being strictly followed,
3.170   Under the World Bank Scheme, 17 field level training
centres attached to each Central Cooperative Bank have started
functioning for upgrading the existing facilities under
cooperative training for the secretaries of the PACS. The cost
of this training is being met out of IDA assistance which have
been earmarked for training scheme. The Orissa is also covered
under NCDC-flI which provides elaborate training to the various
functionaries connected with the World Bank Cooperative Storage
Project.
Th-e World Bank Aissiomn' s Obserations
3.171   The World Bank Review 4issions which visited India and
reviewed the progress during the currency cf the project were
very much concerned with the process and progress
of instituLtion bulUding in the beneficiary stateso



. -64m
3.172       The World Bank lIeview 1-iission %hich visited India in
November-December, 1984 expressed the view that while the physical
completion of the godoimns have in general progressed satisfactorily,
the same cannot be said of irstitut;Lon building, The World Bank
Review Mission urged the participating banlts to implement in full
the recomuilendations uaude by the 8OdI1 consultants pro' idod under
the Project. The long-tenm loan Department of the banks should
be Otaffed adequately to unable DitLuroe investment appraissuls to be
meaning-Xil and not as mechanica1 as have been in many cases in
the past.
3.173       It needs to be stre3sed that the process of institution
building in the Project States has been. initiated and will
definitely reach its logical and rational culmination. The spirit
of Project Approach }las been iimbibed; adequate and trained manpower
1lias been recruitod 4and positioned; ryotemal procedurcs and iziethods
-have been stxeamlined un(d over-luxuletim'nitoring and contr"I system..
has been filly made operational. How,over, the skill and expertise
of the functionaries at EIAC3 rzeed to be up,g,raded further to cope with
the niew man:-gement culture required for efficient runnrin  of the
ISruss-root level coopoi:r LiveL;.  ' he m:i..Jor gaps will bc covered
under NCDC-IIfIl
3,174       Under NCDC-III  institutional building and trainlng of
cooporative porsontiol ians toen made an integral part of the projeot,,
An outlay of fls.147*1 millions has been earmarked for institutionaL
building covering the 3 component i.e. godowning, cotton processing
anl soyabean processing under the project. To meet the manpower
developinent and truining nieeds of the personnel involved in the
godowning project in the six States, i.e. Karnataka  hadhya Pradesh,
Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradlesh and West Bengal, it is proposed
to create a new institutional net-work consisting of a national
centre for trainers' training and material development based at%
Delhi and Agri, Coop. Staff Training Institutes in each of the
implementing States, At the primary level training and consultancy
is to be provided through mobile trainers. In this way, over 20,000
staff will be trained under NCDC-III during the project period.
The implementing banks in there S$tates will be responsibl for the
implementing of the institutional building component, For this
purpose, the NCDC will be providing lO0 financial assistance by
way of grant.  While 52S of the institutional building cost will be
mot by the NCDJC, the bu'lmice will be zaet out of the IDA fund
tlrough thc Government of India*
3.175       The NCDC-IIl Project enyisages stnction of 1643 godowns
(46 Mak lseting and 1597 Rural) in U.P, and 1225 codowns (57 Kbrwketing,
427 PAMS and 741 PACS) in Orissn. Under the Project institutional
training will be imparted to 4540 personnel in UP and 3850 in Orissa
including backlog under NCDC-I. Action has already been initiated
by the implementing banks in the States for setting up of   r
Cooperative .Staff Training Institutes and recruitment of facult
The training programnes are expected to start from AugustSept l98.
I



-65-
PRQ~CTMOI~UiX~G  k'NCDC-I
3.176     The World Dank Storage Project NCDC-I stipulated very
close monitoring of the kroject* It was envisaged that the
monitorini would be a continuous process beginning from the
start-up of the jiroject and continuing to the-post construction
pjh1aso. All tho coriatituonta in tUe eroject )2ad a definite role
in the wonitorin, of tiw project.
3.177    IC.C lieadquarter and its aegional Offices, Govt. of
India Uwrough lvU.nistry of Agriculture and D)epartwent of Economic
Affairs of the Piniastry of Finance, beneficiary states through
state Level Coordination t;omattees, SC.Js tirou,6h separate eroject
Cells and returns to VlCUL, World BankXs through Supervision
1iis3ions have been closely monitoring.the World iiank Cooperative
d1tora,e t'roject.
3.178    The £N4  rexiewed the progress of the Project regularly
by calling meetings and by way of visits to the bank and field.
Apart from the meetirgs, a syste[ of information reportiig was.
also developed. 'Tihe blanks suuaitted aontkLy and quarterly progress
rej,orts, Annual work 'rogramuae of the k'ro ect to NCLC and other
agencies and the same were also made avalable to LAo On tne
basis oZ icaese reports and returns,future action/schedule were
drawn and corrective measures where-verz necessary were initiate4
3.179    The ?ilnistry of Agriculture & Coopn., Govt. of India
constituted a Central Coordination Committee under the Chaiirman-
snip ox tae Secretarys Agriculture & Cooperation for the purpose
of effective high level coordination and monitoring. Various
hi.nistries/Departments of t;he Govt. of India were represented on
this Committee including the Deptt. of Economic Affaira.,   A-LI
committee reviewed periodically the progress and problems 9t
different kinds encountered by various agencies, kept a watch on
the disbursement of funds and on tne Ailfilment of assurances
made to the World Bank.
3.180     The State Coop. Deptt, created a separate cell to look
after tlhe progress of the World Bank Storage Project. The RCS
awd ottwr concerned officius invariably reviewed the progress
made under the project. In addition State Level Coordination.
Committees in each project State were constituted to coordinate
and resolve the problews of construction of godowns in their
respective states  'These committees met at regular intervals
to review the progresso
3.181.    The State Coopo Banksin each project State created
a separate project cell headed by the project officers for
execution and monitoring.  '.as ceLL consisted of both Technical
anri general line officers with their functions clearly 4efineds
Whereas the technical personnel were responsible for moultoring
of the work of execution of the constructLion pjramme, the



-66-
general line officers *;atc1iod tho overall progroas,
coordinated the project activities9 and wcere alzo rbsponsible
for fin;AnciUl andI other Z.lniinistrxative duties. The mob,lity
provided to the project cell by sanction of vehicles made
timely monitoring, posz;1ble and effective.
3.182.      "uvcvrvi,n imi:;Js.jns visited India ;t am
avurage intervul of around six months, They held discussions
at the ';t.;tc levels and also igade field visits, The
impressions were finalised in the wrap-up meetings  seld at
Headqunrter of NCDC .anud -Iven the shape of finding3,  These
findings indicating, the covrective measure for each
mis.sions w.:re sent to the tI'tote Govtso and the implementing
agencies, and followed up by the NCDC till the action was
completed.
POUT CO144J'T1 UCTION VIONITClh111f
3.183        Post construction monitoring is also being
performed to ensure that tche business operation are in line
with the bu(dgeted performances, Financial agencies have an
importawnt sttake as recovery of their loans would depend on
this factor, Post construction monitorinig is the responsibility
of the concerned SCB branch office/CCB, Loan Inspector and
Development Inspector.  The concerned SCB would in addition
have a close watch on the performance of the societies so
that corrective measure could be taken wherever necessary.
The NJCDC is also monitoring the post construction phase and
for this purpose has called for information on the various
iozncts of utilisation of the -oaowns. The ;valuation
Division has undertaken evaluation studies of the utilisation
of rural and marketing godow.nsa.
3 .18.4      The World Ba  ;lReview Mission which9 visited
India in 1979 expressed the view that arrangements for
monitoring and reportingsenemed to be satisfactory and these
would allow NCDC and IDA to follow the progress on a
con U.inuinC basis.



-67-
IV  INP..CT AES1xES1J.v1.
neasurin  ;ngact
Concent of Meisurement
4.01     The notion that measuremcnt is crucial in theoretic7l
anti ap rlied settings has become an estabrlished fact.  However,
the conc'nt of measurement is eomr!lcx. and nbstract. According to
the classical * definition " Measurement is the assigament of numbers
Lo o)bjoots or evuntn accordinqj to rules".  This definition is
rather circumscribed as it is only apnlicable to objects or events
--hich can be measured. In real life, Trnny of the phenomena to be
mean'ired are neither objects nor events . The phenomena to be
measured is abstract.  Accordina to @ Zeller and Carmines, measure-
ment is a process involving both theoretical as well as empirical
consider tion. From an empirical stand-point, the focus is on the
observable resnonse, theoretically, interest has in the under-
lying unobservable responsc.  For example, theoretically it is
argued that the induction of rural godo.ms in the village comnlex
in India will improve the quality of life of the villagers. Empi-
rically the observable restpwnsc mav he an incrense in the income
of the farmers. If a strong correlation exists between observable
and un-observwble phenomena, analysis of quantifiable indicators
can lead to reliable inference about the unobservable concept.
rroblems of-Imp.EAct Assessment
4sU2     There are two basic properties of empirical measurements.
Firstly, the emoirical measurements should satisfy the test of
reliability.  The t,ndecy towardr. consistency found in repeated
measurements of the same phenomena,.is referred to reliability.
In case of World Bank Cooperative Storage Project, repeated
samoles of godovns taken at random one after the other should
give non-contradictory consistent results. Secondly, the empirical
indicators should also satisfy tche test of validity. For example,
the extent of non-credit business of a society may measure the
performance of a rural godown. The empirical indicator i.e. non-
credit business turn-over could be used as a proxy for quantifying
the impact of the rural godowns. An empirical indicator satisfied
the test of validity if it accurately measures what it is Intended
to measure.
4.03     The lustification of rural ',odo'.m stems from the fact that
.* vil}tn  nocinty wiLh ox rural qodown is better suited to service
the need of the farmers than the society without a rural godown.
'.he availability of godowns is likely to hive expansionary
influence on the business of the societies through the inter-action
of credit and non-credit business. How,ever, it may be difficult
to establish.causal relationship between the two through the
medium of rural godowns.
* Stevens, S.S. (1951)
Mathematics, Measurement and Psychophysics"
@ Edward G, Carmines and Richard A. Zeller I Reliability
and Validity Assessment.



-68-
40o4       h3trictly speaikinr:, rur-l -o'do':.n can impact at
thlree inter-linked levolvhl  The  tit is the '¶iirect impact
or first-order imp..ct .Aich cnablcs tlh :;ouicty wtith rur-.l
,:;o(..n to unciertake -;up,ily of ;ngro-inut)uo :=uch r: .ed
fertilisers, peLticides, *ri.wmlLur:l implements, distribute
or;. ;cvti.l Co.i..oditi.ner and o'tlher conzumar articles in ruxnl
;'r'-;. :ct  :; )i-ocluiv'rin.rit ;:ti pucy i'br iiii;1wr leVul of *cQop'artive
iwln;itu1:.; Lu*'.g. Apux Marltoting iY,.!or- Livn or somo Govt. Body
lilk thc Food Corl!or;.Litn of Ifui;J  (NI),, assi_t the fra-mers in
g,ettinc, rcauncrative T)1`iCCw for CiLeir acricultura iAro.fouce by
storins, tueir procluce uurinfl  peak sea3on :and max'keting the same
durinc, the lean season and lasCtly to function as mrowth centre
for. the ail,iro cz;;'tciuIe:jt avvz  u.. Lhu 1:.u%.ivuty.
4.05       trhe socond-ordQr iJIyJ;:ct would measure thc incremental
change in agriculturl )roduction as a result of first order
imn,Xct. To use production ci,:.-;e as surrogate for all other
ch;iaes diuo to rural L1cx1owzr'; iL: r~;;iwr tempting, However
proiluct:Lon ch:-nr:e Aiill not :;;ti;y  hllc tests o0 rcliivbily
;and validity.  Agriculturul promiuct.4on in India is resultant
of a lirj.e number of encdogenouns and exogenous factors lile
adequate and timely r"infall  far:.ier's expectation regarding
prices in addition to availatility of inputs and use of
moderm agricultural practices. Dis-acret.ation of a large
number of factors into two separate categories-derived from
the use of rural godovrns and non-rural gouiowns is just not
possible without resort to use of highly sophisticated
econometric tocnmiqucs like Prin.cipal Component AnalysiJv
Fac6or Analysis etc. which require time-series data over a
1)oriodl of time,
4,u6        Trhe third-order impact aC;aswUes the chX.'nges in
the incomes of the ultimate beneficiaries on a result of rural
godotw;nso The assessment of third-order impact suffers from
itlhe same difficulties as the first order impact,
4,e//       In the pro.ent report, attempts hlve boeen zade
to measure first-order impa(cS with feeble probing into the
:;t'ctmnd-order iminict, Ilotuvve, i o .Lttstupt hns buon rado to
icha.Love ruliLti)lity an  vuliuity tests due to paucity of data
and short period of the operations of the Jhural godoWnes*
4,08        In case of marketing goaornsw, it is difficult to
separate the performance of the feder"ti,.ns and primary
cooperative marketing societies from the performance of
marseting jodowns *. iich lhuve been allutted to them, TM  St'-te/
Regional level cooperative instit*uions owned r lnrge number
of marketing godowns before the inception of NIDC I Project
and effect of the marketing godo';:ns completed under NCDC I
cunnot be separated,



694-
4.09        According to Project Report, the ber,.fit to the
FVeaerations and the profitability of the services thiey are
able to provide to their me;.;ber cooperatives w ith the help of
thle project can be meozoured, in part 'uy observing their' turn-
over and other statistics, The major objectives of activity
oxin-nsion by malketinlt fedorsatjs)n, IM(NCiS awnd TICC as a result
of additional marketing godo;:nz are to expand building space
.1nd business activitie:. in order to fiacilitate their full and
profitable servicing of the needs of the primary cooperative
tocintieso
First-Ordler Inrionct
]valuation Stuu ics
4,10        In pursitance o:f tho deci.1ion of the Board of
Nanmageimenot and terms o-" aCreo:ment ;.etween the World Bank
and the Government, of India for IDS credit for financing
cooperative storage project in Haryana, Orissa and U.P., the
Evaluation Division of the Corporation has completed evaluating
studies of rural and marketing Godouns constructed under NCDC-I
project in 3 beneficiary, States. The evaluation studies have
b)een conducted in line viith the l1ey :.ndicators andl objectives
specified by the Wiorld Banklc in the Project Report. Attempts
hz .ve been made in thle evaluatioi studies to quartify the
first order impact of rurl and r.ma-keting godowns on the
beneficiary coopar;tivos4  The studios also incox)orate views
of about 800 farmers regarding the benefits of the rural godownsa
4*.1        The design of the Avaluation Studies in the project
States uses stratified sampling technique in case of rural
godowns and census method in case of marketing godo.nso The
studies provide stratification by district and with each district
the size of the >ample was determined on the basis of random
mamplina teclmique, -All the rurLal godo%ins which wtere completed
and handed over to the societies before 30th June,1982 formed
the population from which 33 rural Codonms in Hat yznxa, 142 rural
godourns in U.P. and 22 .n Orizzc. uere randomly selected.l All
the maIketin- godoi;nc at F"eder. .iLns level and RQ-TS level which
were in operation by 30th June.1982 wJere included in the sample.
4.12        The reports of the Evaluation Studies of the 'World
Bank Cooperative Storage Project in case of Haryana and U.P,
were brou;ht out in Novezaber,1983 and in case of Orissa in
lMarch,1984,
mpiricul Indicators
4013        In order to assess tho first-order impact the total
non-credit business arid its,- po-centage to total busi.ness of the
society could be considered as one of the important statistical
intlictators, Only Sociot'y with n j.,odo%ow-n can undorttaIe distribution
of forti.J.iusrr:; cosu;nimer gooIng, pre:ticideap iiaiocticiclos, seeds
,ad otler inputne Lata on the, diveruific^;tion of thc business
tumnovor of PAUUJ in Havyzun.n, U.?, and Orissa are given at
Annex IV In.tho tables from l to 3.



-70-
4.14         A detailed. an;,.y:;is of tho daita on the movement of the
crucial variables like disburaomilont of credit, distribution of
Lertilisers cand conaunuer t;ooLdz lvws Uroukht into bold relief that
induction of rurcl r;odown.l has impacted fuvourably on the exnansion and
dLiver:Aficution of tho huwiJno:,.urnove- of the societies,  Assuming
1978-79 as the pro-proJect period, the credit turnover of the 33
sampled societtes in llarynna hn-As i± crcao;ad by 92.5 percent from
1978-79 to 1982-83o The non-creuit turnover has also recorded hefty
ui,,:1~ . ;! £ioui m:.,.G rilJ i.iui:1 hi0 w,l:  T197-80 'to ft(,s18.00 millions
(uIUj111, 1L6-13) 1*ut.lvrs11ni wi          of 10O.4'; durin!; tlh period,
Theor. h;s been siEnificant incre.. -..o in the vulue of diotribution of
inputs as well as the consumer  f)odis and also in t"e number of societies
unoertalkin- these activitie3, 'Tlh percentage of raon-credit turnover to
total turnover which was nil durinZ 1978-79 increased to 26,2 during
1982-83.
4.15         In U.P. non-crec'it turnover of 142 sampled socioties has
t;_Izen tremendous strides from J.17{J-'Y9 to 1982-83* Luring 1978-79 the
total non-credit business turnover o^ sv'in-ed societies w.tas only
rF.l0.7 million3 vilwich j.ncreased to ;.1.63.4 millions during 1982-83,
recording an incrc3:;e o.r 492.,A Clurin: tche period.  There has also
beo(n :sigiiificant inure ..,. in the nttabor of societies en-Aged in the
distribution of fertiliaers anid conz;u,ter goods* Ax.zong the three
1*n..ficiary *J .tes, U.P. i.; tlhe only ;.tate which has started utilising
PACS as pro tement ar;encies for .1no:; birketing Federvtion and Food
Corpora Lion ofT'u"J.  JAtrinpt l8:t-t. about 2W  of the societies acted
aus uleats Lor pxocur_:mofnt oX rood ;iruinu on behalf of higher level
of cooperative federation or Food Corporation of Indik.  It is
understood that the Government of U.P. has decided to make all PACS
s a1gents for procurement of foo(l,,railn- on behalf of Apex Federation,
4,16         On the whole, the percont-ge of non-credit turnover
to total turnover in U.P. in case of 142 sanapled societies has
increased from 23.0756 during 1978-79 to 56 ,49 during 1982-83e
4.17         In Orissa also there has be..n significant increase in
credit mnd non-crediit turnover of 22 sccapled societies from 1978-79 to
1982-83.  'roan 1978-79 to 1..82-83 the credit turnover of the sampled
societics lia3 increoased by 99.9 percent, furtillser turnover by 51.6
percent, con3umer goods turnover by 546.7 percent and total non-credit
turnover by 213.7 percent, The ,eicuntuge of non-credit turnover to
total turnover increased from 30.78, iuring 1978-79 to 41.11iS during
1882-83. o
4.18         There has been simnific:.nt procurement .f the farmers'
produce by PAC3 in U.P. unter the price support operations. In Orissa
also, some agricultural produce lhas been procured by PACS and LUI2SO
Iloreover, in Orissa, thicre is not much surplus agricultural produce,
In Haryana, there ore regulated markting yards where the farmers have
to sell their surplus aLwricul.ural proc uce. HAFED procures sizeable
ouautities of whleat through 4artketin,; Societies from the regulated
markets.
4.19         The beneficiary St.tesare also facing a large number of
difficulties in stocking and mar!ket.ng of the farmers output, Many
farmers prefer to sell their output in the regulated marketq rather
than using PACS as agencies for marketing, The PACS are unable to
offer adequate.liquidity to the f.rmers to meet their financial
commitments at the timc of harvesting. IMany a-times, it is not
profitable for the farmers to stock tlheir agricultural produce
in the storage godowns of the PACS during peak season and sell the
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



-71-
same during leon season a.-i the diffieionce between peak season
prices and lean season prices oL the agricultural produce is not
sufficiently large to Ju;tify stocking and incurring inventory
co.ts, The farmers have also e:c,oressed the unfounded fears that
in case they sell their ngricullur:.1 pro(luce tlrouLh PAC.',- the
Souiotios will ini.ike deductions towtards payment of overdues from
the fPrmers from the total realizC'tiono,
4.20      There has also siSnificL:nt increase in the arorth of
membership in case of PACS to whom rural godons have been
allotted* In Haryana the average membership per sampled PACS
incroased from 360 during 1979-80 to 597 during 1982-83, The
percentage of families covered to total rural families in case
of all the soci;^ties in MIaryana lias ueen estimated at about 79%
wa:ereas in case of socicties in the sample the percentage
covrerage in 875.
4.21      The scmpled ditt.n on mewcborahip shows that there has
beon some full in thc percontzo ;aaro of small farmers andl big
f.rrmers in thc total mus.-bership of thd PACS. On ihe other hend,
the porcentatge skyirao of non-agriculturiuts has intireased, The
non-agriculturists consint of riral artisans  landless labourers
u1tt oUlwra wlho do not oizn land, This shows that the induction of
the rural godA'n-ms has diversified the composition of the
membership of tne PACS.
4,22       The percentage of rural ftmilies covered to total
rural families in case of sampled societies in U.P. has staged
a steady increase from 39 in 197C-79 to 41 in 1979-80, 42 in
1980-81, 44 during 1981-82 ancd 46 during 1932-83, The average
membership per sampled society has increased from 970 to L201
during the period, There has been no change in the compobition
of membership of the sampled -,ocictios;
4.23       In Orissa also the average membership per sampled
society lias incrensed from 686 (luring 1980-81 to 1206 (luring
1982-33. The covernge of rural families in cage of sampled
societies at 68% during 1982-83 is hijher than the percentage of
ruratl famili.es at 64 in Orissa.  There has also been some decline
in the povcentage of smi. l farmioi-. and big farmers in the total
meisnbur_lip) oL the societieso On 'he other hand there has been
corresponding increase in the percentage share of rural artisans
and others in the membership of the societies, This indicates a
healthy shift in the membership *Jhich would benefit the weaker
section of the farming community which do not have owm land.
4,24       There has been some increase in mobilisation of
deposits of the PACS after cowmissioning of the rural godomns.
this is mainly due to better functioning of the societies. Increase
in saving propensity of the fVarming community would emwaate from
the tliird order impact of the rural godowns vwhich is still to
materialise fully as most of the rural godowns were completed
after 1981-82. the benefits oi the rural godownas have not fully
been aszimilated by the societies and farming communityo It will
take anothier five year boforc s;ome tangible effects of third
ordor impact of rurtl godownn could be clearly visible',



-72-
Utilisation Studies
4,25         NCDC requested the Governments of beneficiary States
to c; rry out ruwil godou:nn studico  on their. own prior to the
zubmini;ion of the Projoct Completion Roporto The pc.,rua1 of the
utilicat.ion d ta collected by tlhe Ztate Govornrnents in tables from
1 to 3 at Annex V bring¢s out that there has been significant
development of non-credit busineos at P..C3 level after indluction of
rural gotioun=. The inform.;tion on other aspects of util,isation of
!:odoimr and nl.!3o m1r-kotinm ,o'.r. is riven in the rco.vznt sections0,
:ctutl anuO 1e1ort Proaectionr-
4,26         The Proj:ct Report ;mr. Uiw-de certain projections re,gard-
hip,** ilar:ro;t;;o lu Lulriiuvo  o.V X;la iu nputu, outputs aLnc  colstmer Coods
above tIie pre-projt:ct luvel in inrojuct year 5 in the 3 proj.ot
L';itteos  Tlhe pre-p,roject year in Urii:;a iZ 1,79.8O and in U.P.
and Haryaxna 197849. The tables from 1 to 3 at Amie;: VI g±ve the
aotail:; rcgardinjg bu4inc::: oporL.tiun:; oC the PIACS  in the beneficiary
States, The following table gives actual and Projiect Report
projoctiuns in Proj ct t.tese. In Oris:sa the data portains to
ye;ar 3 over the pre-project year =nd U,P. and Haryana year 5 over
the pre-project period:
A LTtUALS AND Vt1 Ji:;CT ILtaJQRT ?RIOJE CTI U
(Rs,in millions)
Project Report           ACTUALS
Projections       b,_        ,       Orissa    Total.
Fertilisers         320        779.90    166.36   70,70    1016,96
rarm produce        950      *1219.80    -          3,50    1223,30
Consumer -toods     400       1901.80      23.23   88.30    2013,33
Credit             2 270U     1782,4    893.32   42,4       Z718.12
Di:;bursement
* Quantity 0,802 million. tonnes.
*  The consecquential increase of credit extended
to farnier members of PCS annually witas estimated
to be Rs,540 millions.
4.27          It would be seen from the above table that incremental
increase over the pre-project year in case of fertilisers, farm
produce and consumer goods harve significantly exceeded the Prbject
Report ProJectionso
4.28          The inerease in vulue of consumer goods handled by the
PAC5in thv project States h   been more pronounced than the
irncremental increase in the value of fertilisers anfl farm produce
handled by the PACS, The bulk of the increase in the value of
consumer goods handled by the PACS has been contributed by U.P.
whiich took a policy decision on 1.1.1981 to increase publ.c
distribution by opening fair price shops all over the State for
supply of essential commodities at fixed prices* The distribution
of consumer goods was exclusively entrusted to PACS in the
plain areas.  Out of 8600 PACS in the St9.te, 7570 PACS hcave



-73-
been involved in the distribution of consumor goods through PACS.
The distribution of consumer Goods picked up sigtificantly from
1981-82 onwards. The decline in the value of dirtribution of consumer
goods during 1983-84 was mainly duo to issue of licences of fair
price shops to private quota holders in the rural areas and
decrease in the per unit scale of sugar to the land holders,
4.29     In Haryana, the distribution of consumer goods declined
from Rs.62.5 millions in 1980-81 to around Rs,30 millions afterwards.
The primary cause of decline in the value of consumer goods handled
by PACS$ in IlaryYana has boeon the introduction of dual sy-tem of
di3tribution of consumer goods in rural areas w.e.f. July,1979 viz.
(i) covered bv consumer coopcrativeS (ii) managed by Mini Banks
(PACS), The business transacted by Mini Banks in llaryana suffered
a serious set back as soon as Ha.y~.na State Consumer Cooperative
Federation (CONFMD) established tlhemselves fully by 1980-81. At the
intervention of NCDC, the Hax'yann Government has decided to hand over
the businoss of distribution of consumer goods to PACS in a phased
mnnero  Two dintricts lhtve been trrnsferred from CONFED to the PACS
lor ditutributtion of cono;u.war .articloso In due coursc, the role of
CotFEVD would be confined to tlic-t of a wholesaler in the, distribution
of consumer articles in rural arc s and the actual retail distribution
wtould be handed over gradually to the PACS.
4,30     In Orissa, the distribution of consumer goods through PACS
has steadily increased over tho y0ars. The Governrent of Orissa is
making concentrated efforts to further activise the cooperative
consumer activities In the rural areas,
FinncilViabili
4,31     Apart fron sub-serving the social objectives, the PACS
operating with godowAs should be financially viable so that they
are not burden on the exchequer.o
4Lr32    According to Project Report, P¢  would have difficulties to
service the loan taken for godovns construction during the years
1 to 3 aftor tho completion of thA buildins, Although, the
annual net cash flows are negative also in the years 4 to 5, the.
cumulative surplus would allow repayment to compence in the 4th
year. Payment of dividend on equity could be started from the
year 5, and repurchase by the society of State-held redeemable
equity could be completed by the year 10.
4.33     The Project Report has quantified financial rate of return
(FRR) for a model in Haryana. In the calculations, the costs *ere
assumed to grow behind year 5 at ?% rate, same rate as before the
year 5, The Srowth of benefits were assumed to drop rom over 20 in
the first 5 years, to 10%4 in years 6 to 10 and to 7%S.n ear11     20
years, Based on margins obtained for different activities of PACS,
FRR for the society's investment in Haryana was estimated at 16%;
4,34     The Evaluation reports of the World Bank.Cooperative
Storage Project in Ilaryana U.Po and Oris8a have thrown up financial
data for testing the projections made in the Project Report,



-74-
4535     The following operational methodology has boen used in
workinq out the profitability, financial rate of return. stream of
income and expenditure for 20 years and testing the projections/
assumption made by Project Rerort regarding payment of loan
instalments, interest payment of dividend and repurchase of ecuitys-
i) The evaluation data gives income and expenditure and profit/
loss for the sampled societies for 4 years in case of
Haryana and U.P. and 3 years in case of Orissa, It has been
assumed that the growth of income and exoenditure in U.P.
and Haryana in the 5th year of the operation of the rural
godowns would increase at an observed rate during the
preceoding one year when all the sampled societies were
operating with rural godowns. Prom 6th to 20th year,
income and exnondituro havo been assumed :o grow at
rates projected in the Project Report.
ii) In case of Orissa the rate of growth of income and expendi-
ture from 4th year onward has been taken as the same as
in the Project Renort.
-iii) Straight line w:thod has been used for calculation of
depreciation assumed at 3% of the cost of construction.
i.v) Intorest h;in beon taken at 9.25% per annum on the loan
coinm onent, whilch in c.soo of U.P. and Haryana has been taken
at 60% and in case-of Orissa at 50%, of the total investmott.
v) Maintenance cost of the godowns has been taken at 1% of
the total cost of investment.
vi) Schedules of loan nayment both of principal and interest
for each of the beneficiary States have been worked out
takin7 into account 3 years moratorium period and
thereafter 12. years payment period. The cumulative
interest accrued in the first 3 years has been spilt up
into 12 equal instalments and added to the interest
accrued in each year from the year 4 onward. The princip4l.
is paid in 12 equal instalments from 4th year onward.
vii) The dividend at the rate of 8% of equity will be paid
from 6th year onward and State-held redeemable equity
wniild he ropurchasLd by the societies in equal instalments.
from the 6th year to 10th year. The equity in case of
U.P. and Haryana has been taken at 35% of the cost o*
investment and in case of Orissa 45% of the cost of
investment of godowns.
4.36     The financial analysis of the 3 beneLfZciary Statesis
given in the table from 1 to 9 in Annex VII.
4.37     In Haryana 33 Societies were selected of which 5 were in
operation in 1979-80, 16 in 1980-81 and 33 during 1981-82.
4.38     The societies in Haryana 'rould, by and large, be able to pay
both principal and interest, repurchase equity and pay dividend as
projected in the Project Report.  The' financial rate of return for
the societies investment in Haryana has been estimated at 22,5% as
against 16 pertent estimated in the Project Report.
4.39     In Uttar Pradesh a sample of 142 societies were selected of



-75-
which 14 were in opfrzltion cl'1ring 1979-130# 75 In 1980-81  ind 142 during
1901-1)2 ind 19024-3. Tlea ;-nm;Al-1 nortitbais in U.P. wotld be able to pay
botlh principal and interest and provide for depreciation, repurchase
equity and pay dividend without any fin nclal difficulties. The PRR in
case of sampled societies investment has been estimated at 20.8 percent.
4.o40   In Orissa 21 sampled-societies wJere selected of which 2 were in
oprration in 1980-81 and 21 durin"r 1981-82 and 1982-83. The FRR in
case of sampled societies in Orissa has been estimated at 17.8 percent.
iavment of loans
4e41   The beneficiary Strites wore requested to furnish dita regarding
repayment of loan instalment and interest by PACS to SCBS on loan
component of the Coonerative Storage Project. The following table
depicts repayment statistics as on 31.12.1984s-
,pa,nt of Loan Inst-alment ind Interest
As on 31.12.1984
Ansolnt tlue froin      &nount ;ctuclly repaid by        % of
lhnefici;irv aocieLif!a  IncnoEiclia socieLies to SCIJ   renaMnt
Princi- Inteest tr6tai  Princi-   Interest   Total.
HAIUYANA
a.PACS  0840       1.130  1.970  0.818       1.102     1.920       97.46
1.IIAFED  2.060     2.825  4.885  2.060       2e825     4.885      100l00
_ ___                a  _ _   .  .                  . - 
Total:-  2.900      3*955  6.855  2,878       3.927     6o800       99.20
UTTAR
PRADESH
a.PACS   159e30    63.40  222.70  153.10    61.40       214.50      96.32
b.PCP     17.70    13.80   31.50   17.70    13.80         31.50    100.00
Total:-  177.00    77.20  254.20  170.80    75*20       246.00      96.77
oRIuSSA
a.PACS   5.02       9.90  14.92      3.76      7.63     11.39        76.34
b.RCMS   0.94        1.61   2.55      -          -       -            Nil
c.OSCMF  2*83        3.08   5.91      2.83     3.08      5.91       100.00
d.TDCC   1.85       176   3.61       1.85     1.76       3.61      100.00
Totals- 10,64       16.35  26.99     8.44    12.47      20.91        77.47
4.42     It would be seen from the above table that the marketing
Federations in the 3 project States including Tribal Development
Cooperative Corporation (TDCC) in Orissa have fully paid loan instalment
and interest to SCBs. In case of PACS, the response is mixed, In
Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the PACS hacve paid 97.46 percent and 96.32
porcent of principal and interest respectively. In Orissa, the percen-
tage of payment is 76.34. The RCMS in Orissa have not started repayment
of principal and interest.
4.43     In Orissa, the authorities have assured that recovery will be
intensified during the months of May and June and dues, by and large,
would be recovered by June, 1985. There has been demand from Haryana
to change the month of payment to NCDC to August or September as the
amount is recovered from the PACS by the end of June.



- 76 -
13conomic Rate of Raturn
4.44    The Project Renort identifies two tangible benefits which
would accrue to the fanners and the PACS as a result of induction
of rural godowns in the working of PCS,  According to the World Bank,
the nroject would make fertilisers and other farm inputs available
in the immediate vicinity of .n large number of farmer who do not
hMve the transport facility to collect these over long distance.
It would also nllow fnrmers to deliver their excess produce to the
local FCS closo to their farms instea.d of to the more distant market
contre towns.  Transport .orvices provided by the coonerritives
would allow use of more efricient moethods of transportation and
provi01e cost swvings by way of nconomies of ocnle which are
particuldirly important for sn;all farmers, Typically, savings would
arise from use of truck trinsport instend of individual bullock cart
transport and would amount to Rf,4 per tonne per kilometer. For
th-e typical PCS, thc average benefit would total about Ps.28/-
por tonne which is about 2,. of the value of fertilisers and
produce handled.
4,45    Economic benefits would also be obtained by the avoidance
of losses of faTm produce and fertilisers through storage in the
new cooperative godowns and stores. On this account, according
to the tworld B.ank's estimate,, project would save about 2% of the
f*irm produce and fertilisers handled annually. by the PCS, which
without the project would have been wasted,
4.46    The Evaluation Team in an attempt to find empirical
evidence in support of the assumptions of the World Bank
collected data in respect of reduction in storage losses as
well as savings in trans;'ort cost from the sampled societies
in Haryana and Orissa respectively.
4,47    The percentage reduction in storage losses of the
a.implod ::ociu ios in 11iryrnna as oestimated by the knowledgeable
persons connocted with the working of the PACS and farmers
is given in table I of Annex VIII, It would be seen from the table
that the storage losses in new godowns have been estimated
at 0.5 - 1.0 percent whereas in the old godowns, storage losses
are mostly in the range of 2-3 percent.
4.48    In Uttar Pradesh also, the estimate of reduction in
storaCe losses was calculated. The reduction in storage losses
was comparatively lower than that of in Haryana.
4.49    However, on the average, the reduction in storr'ge
losses were close to World Bank's estimate of 2% of the value
of agricultural inputs and agricultural produce handled.
4,50   -In case of savinqs in transport costs, varying estimates
have be- n given by the farmers as well as the Secretaries of
the PACS in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.



* - ~~77-.
4.51    The Evaluation Division of the NCDC had commissioied
a study to quantify thio impact of rural Codown on tho farmina
communities in Orissao An attempt was made to have some broad
idea of the savings in transport cost. Two districts one
developed viz, Ganjam and one under-developed viz, Dhenkanal
were seloctod, 220 farmers were interviowod to seek information
on parameters which would quantify the savlngs in transport
cost. The followin, table gives approximate savings in transport
cost as a rosult of rural Zodowns:e
Savinas in TransDor,t Cogts in InDutt
Ganlam                Dhankanal             Total
Pre-        ostH      Pre-       Post    Pre-      Post
GodoM      a doQ ggo  Ggd
1.Distance     6.47       0063      11.32      1e54    17.79    2.17
covered for
purchase of
inputs(Kms.)
2.Numbor of    2.59       4.50       3.19      3.41      5.78    7.91
visits for
purchase of
inputs in a
yoar
3.Cost of      8*75       3.22*      4,07       2.66*   12182   5e88
Trans ort*
4.Value of      266        497        197        401      463     898
purchase
(ft.,
5,Percentare   3.29       0.64       2.07       0.66     2.77    0.65
of 3 to 4
6.Reduction in            2.65                  1.41             2.12
transport
costs
(Percentage)
*It includes costs of transportation of
inputs from Mandi in trucks by PACS.
4.52    It would be seen from the above table that in GanJam District
savings in transport cost has been estimated at 2.65% and in Dheni*aal
District at 1.41%, giving an average total savings in transport coat
at 2.12%, which is close to World Bank's estimate of savings in
transport cost as given in the Project Report.
4.53.  rhe data also reveals that in the absence of rural godowns the
farmers were purchasim; inputs from mandi or from the hired godowns
of the Societies. In order to avoid frequent visits, the farmers
were purchasing bulk of their needs of inputs in a fewer visits so
as to reduce their transport cost and the time involved in visiting
the mandies. This resulted in an increase in inventory at the
farmers level. Alfter the construction of new godowna, the farmers
have increased their number of visits and reduced purchases



-78-
of inpits at a time, As a result, the farmers are attempting
to minimise their inventory cost although, they have to make
more frequent visits, This has manifested in an increase in
inventory at PACS level and reduction in inventory at the
farmer's lovel. The net result has been savings in transport
costs even though the farmers visits to the new godowns Mvave
increased. This has been made possible due to vastly reduced
distances of the new godowns from the residence of the farmers.
4,54    As a result of the empirical evidence, the benefits to
LlI oeconomy emanating from savings in transport cost as well as
reduction in storage losses have been taken at 4% of the total
vnlue of agriculturral inptts hWandled by tho societios. It has
been assumed that the savings in transport cost as well as
reduction in etorage losses would also amount to 2% of value of agri-
cultural produce handled by the societies. However, the societies
have mostly handled fertilisers during the period under review,
4.55    Economic rate of return has been worked out on the following
assumptions:
i) The benefits to the society on accoumt of godowns in
terms of transport cost savings and reduction in
storage losses would be 4% (2) from transport cost
saving and 2% in storage losses) of the value of
fertilisers and agricultural produce handled by the
societies.
ii) In the calculation of incremental costs, a standard
conversion factor of 0.8 has been applied to all domestic
expenses and 1.2 to the domestic.price of cement and
steel,
iii) For unskilled workers, a shadow wage rate of 50 percent
of market wage rate.has been used. The skilled workers
have been costed at 80 percent of the market value: land
and supervision have been valued at market prices.
iv) Incremental costs include 2 percent of the cost of
investment as the cost of maintaining additional staff
at Bank's level,
v) The incremental operating cost at INCDC's level has been
taken at Rs#100 per annum per society.
4.56    Based upon the above assumptions, the cost and benefits
flow of rural codowns in case of sampled societies in beneficiary
states are given in Annex- Ix.
4.57   Tlhe economic rate of return in case of U.P, has been worked
out at 12.15%, Haryana at 18% and Orissa 8.65%. 'Zhe combined
Economic Rlate of Return has been estimated at about 11% as against
22% estimated in the Project Report.
4e58    AccLrdt Effectw
4.58    According to the Project Report Project would have the



-79 -
following employment effects on PACS Managero Store-keepers and
Watchmen in the three beneficiary states:
Emplonment Effects of Coopera-
tive Elmtor~  ftgjelet
HLaa          UttEr Pradesh        dl Orissa
PCS Managers     1500            4600            2240       8340
Store Keepors    1070            3635            1270       5975
Watchmen         1640            4670            1650       7960
Total annual    4210            12905            5160      22275
Staff        -
4.59      The actual achievements will fall short of the target as the
number of rural godowns which are likely to be completed by the
Clnd of the l'roject period would be significantly lower than the Project
target, Against the Project target of 4600 rural godowns in U.P.,
the number of godowns completed are 3568; in Haryana the number of
rural godownas likely to be completed would be 945 as against Project
target of 1500; in vrissa against Project target of 1050 new godowns,
the godowns likely to be completed would be 758 and against Project
target of rehabilitation godowns of 1100, the godowns to be completed
at the end of the project are 200.
4.60      A better comparison would be actual staff per society
achieved in the beneficiary States as compared to target staff per
society in the Project. The following table gives the actual staff
per society on the basis of 33 sampled societies in Haryana, 22
sampled societies in Orissa, 142 sampled societies in U.P. and target
staff as per Project.
Actual Staff 9or Society
_  Uttar Pradesh       Orissa
PCS Manager     1.0        1.0,      1.0        1.0       1.09    1.04
Store Keeper/
Salesman/       0.91       0,71      1.51       0.79      1.77    0.56
Clerk
Chowkidar/
Peon            0.79       1.09      1.43       1.01      2.72    0.73
4.61      In the case of PCS managers, the actual staff per society in
Haryana, U.P, is the same as the  .arget staff. In Orissa the actual
PCS managers in position are 1.09 per society as agalnst target of
1.04 PCS managers due to a large number of Large-sized Agricultural
Multi-purpose Societies (LAMPS) to whom rural godowns have been given.
In case of storekeepers the actual staff requirements per society
in all the 3 States have been higher than the target staff. However,
it may be mentioned that Project has made provision for only store-
keepers. In case of watchmen, actual staff in Haryana has been lower
than the target staff and in U.P. and Orissa the actual staff have
been significantly higher than the target staff.



w80
faketing 2d9
4,62     'The assessment of the impact of the marketing go^ownu on
the operations of the State M4arket1ng Federations and Marketing
Societies and ultimately on the farming community is difficult, The
causal relationship between the marketing godoams and other
observable parameters at Federations' level is complex and tenuous
due to problems in disaggregation of the contribution of the
marketing godowns from the total physical and financial pernorbance
of the Federations and Mlarketing.Societies.
4.63     The first order impact of the marketing godowns would
consist of addition to storage space of federations and marketing
societtes to facilitate their general business activities,
4,64     The Project have added or would be adding alost 309250 ts
of additional storage capacity Li terms of marketing godown of
which PCF (U.P) share would be 50b000 tonnes Hated (tryana) 1985,000
tonnes,, OSCMF (Orisa) 20,,000 tonmes and RCNIS (Orissa) 54 250
tonmes, The marketing godowns have provided the basic infrastruc-
ture. to the federations and marketing societies to store more
inputs like fertilisers, seeds, pesticides and agricutural outputs
viz. wheat, rice and agricultural raw materials for processing.
4.65     The benefits derived from the marketing godowna by the
Federations and aarketing societies would clearly depend upon the
oxLint of utiliasction of storawe capacity  reated under the NCDC-I
Project. Capacity utilisation of marketing godowns may be taken as
the most important empirical indicator for quantifying the first
order impact of marketinr godowns
4.66     The marketing godowns have helped the ben6fioiary coopera-
tives to diversify and expand their buainess activities,  owever,
increase in business turover of the federation and marketing
societies camot solely be attributed to use of marketing godowns
or vice-versa, The business turover of federation and marketing
societies is derived from many multi-dimensional activities covering
processing, trading, marketiig etc. The trends ln agricultural
output, timely and adequate r infal , availability of irrigation
facilities, competition from private traders, availability of credit,
behaviour of market prices, procurement and support prices
availability of inputs etc. are important factors -which termine
the business turnover of tho federations and marketing societies.
'1'A availubility ot sufficient storage space is necessary but not
sufficient condition for the expansion of the business.
4o67     Keeping in view the facts mentioned9 the effect of marketing
godowns on the operation ol the federation and marketing societies
is discussed below:
4.68     The itvaluation studies conducted bv NCDC bas provided data
on operations of 18 marketing godowna with PC  in U*P9 44 market
godowa with HA]-ED and 12 marketing godown with  SCM   9 marketing
godowna with RCOS (Orissa) and I marketing godown with fDCC (Oria.,
These marketing godowns were completed by 30e6e1982 aA covered i  e



evaluation studies.
4.69     Capacity utilisation of space is a two-dimensional
concept volumetric and gravimetric. The volumetric concept
Wxpresses capacity utilisation in terms of storage space
created and utilised; the gravimetric concept expresses the
capacity of godowns in torms of tomngeo Generally, the
concept of capacity of a godown is considered volumetric and
it is translated into gravimetric in relation to a particular
comuodity,
4.70     Tho capatcity of a given size of Codown varies from
commodity to comodity as the same tonnage of all the commodities
cannot be stored in a given storage, To obviate the difficulties
of comparing capacities for different commodities in the same
godown, it is convenient to express the capacity of a godown
in terms of a single commodity say, wheat, as has been done in
the case of godowis constructed under the ProJect. For this
purpos   a stan4ard bag of Wheat occupyiig 6 sq. ft. (0.75 sq*
meters) of space and wig   one quintal is taken as the
standard ef reference, Te capacity of any godown can be
con% ar;ted in compatrison to the standard ba  of wheat that
could be stored in the godown.
4.71     The height of tho g,odowng, size of stock, scientific
requirements of storage and need for operational space and
ulloyways nro nome ot the other fa,ctors whioh detormine the
otpiu<ily o0 u godown., '1oeS fuctors have bom taken Intq
account in developing a design for the construction of a godowi,
From the gross capacity 27 percent space is provided for alley-
ways and 8 percent for operatlimal purpose, Storage capacity
of marketin:, godownas has provided space for alleyways and
operational activities. The capacity is net of space for
alleyways mad other activities,
02raio2al Methodolo
4.72     'Ihe following methodology has been used in estimating
the extent of the capacity utilisation of marketing godowns
constructed under NCDC-I Project:-
i)Monthwtse data on maxium stock, minimum stock,
And average stock of different commodities
ntored in mnrkoting godowns have boon collootod,
ii) All tAao commoodities viz, tertiliers, sugar, rice
otco stored in mourkoting godowns have been converted
.nto wheat by using standard conversion ratios,
iii)Godownswise aximm, minimum and average capacity
utilisation have been computed*
iv)Godown-wise capacity utilisation has been aggregated
into district-wise ard further to state as a whole.



-82-
4.73      The tables from I to 3 in Annex-X gives district-wise
and State-wise capacity utilisation of marketing godowns and
federation in the 3 proJect states. A summary table at state
level is jSiven below:-
Statc-wi:;e capacity utilization of
sampled Iarketing Swdons 
,Percente
State           1                 1I 8182          19824!   Av
MR-imvin- ve;  ax-Mini- Aver- 14ai-llin}::- Afver-   
mum    mum   nr:e  mum  mull .        M mum .MM   ..L.
Ilary.na    60.2   46.0   53.1  51.9 45.7 48.8   -
Uttar -
Pradesh     57.3   31.9  44.6  85.4  67,8  76.6  84.1  03-0  73.6
Orissa        -                 60.5  47.5  54.0  46e2  35.6  40.9
4.74      The percentage capacity utilisation of marketing godowns
in Uttar Pradesh has been higher than the percent capacity
utilisation in Ilaryana and Orissa,
4,75     'Te decline '.n percentage capacity utilisation in Haryana
was primarily due to ceclIjie in fertilizer turnover during 1981482
as compared .to 1980-81. In subsequent years, the Hlafed has
recorded increase in turnover of fertiliser and wheat. According
to Hafed, there has been a substantial improvement in capacity
utilisation of marleting godowns during 1982483 and 1983-84o  In
Urium-:t UaWo Jtato ntirkotingi 'odoration was not prepared to
operate all the godowns simultaneously which resulted in some
delay in the occupation of godowns. Moreovet, single chambers
godowns were not found suitable to store different commodities
particularly along with fertilisers. Partitions have since
been provided in the chambers of the marketing godowns. The
capacity utilisation of marketing godowns in Uttar Pradesh has been
quite satisfactory.
Fin ncial Ratet of Retur
4.76      FUR could not be calculated in case of markt- wing godowns
due to non-availability of godown-wise financial data. The
Federations' godowns cannot be considered as separate business
entities, they are an integral part of the federations.
Business Turnover of. statelkvrk2tias Federations
4.77      The marketing federations are State Cooperative bodies
which are mostly performing the following functions:-
i) Supply, storage and distribution of agrici4tural Inputs$
like fertilisers, pesticides and seeds etc. to the
farmers for boosting farm production,
ii) l4arleting of farm produce for ensuring the most
remunerative prices to the farmers.
iii) Processing of agricultural produce and inputs for
bringing the trading and mamnfacturing gains to the
farmers,



-83-
4.78      The following sumniary table gives annual turnover of
three State Marketing Federations in the beneficiary States,
Detailed inforrmation is gitven in tables from 1 to 3 in Anrex-XI.
I3usineaa2 Turnoveir of A2o Fdedrationj
Year            PCF              llAED           OSCMF
(Ueer  )        (HAaUtYANA)     (OI.I:;SA)
1978-79         2271.1           924.0            139.9
1979-80         1851.0          1361.0            129*0
1980-81        3094.9           1645.6            180.5
1981-82        4144.8           1394.6            158.1
1982-83        4571.8           1464.7            229.3
1983-84        5159.5           1417.5            218.4
Percentage in-
crease in
1983-84 over
1978-79          127.18           53.41            56.11
4.79      PCF has recorded significant increases in the turnover
of fertilisers, wheat and sugar from 1978-79 to 1983-84.  These
three items accounted for 95.5 percent of the total busin&ss
turnover ot VCI' during 1983-84. ILAV'ED major areas of business
have been fertilisers, pesticides, wheat, rice and cotton,
These items accounted for 95.8 porcent of the total turnover of
HAFID during 1983-84. The major items handled by OSCMW are
fertilisers, pesticides, paddy and rice. These items accounted
for 94 percent of the business turnover of OSCMF during 1983-84.
4.80     No attempt has been made to establish, correlation
between availability of storage space and expansion in business
activities.
Profit/Loss of federations
4.81     1Tlhu tablo I in Anmex-Xll gives annual profit/loss of three
Z.tate  a rketing Vederations from 1978-79 to 1983-84.. Due to many
limitatious of accounting concept of profit/loss9 the effect of
marketing godown on the profitability of the Federations cannot be
quantified.
Maketlna Godowns (RCi.iZ)
4.82     The 1.1arketing Cooperatives in the Orissa State can be
broadly classified under two categories, i.e. General purpose
marketing cooperatives and the Specialised commodity marketing
cooperatives. *Tse Orissa State Cooperative Marketing Federation a?d
the Regional Cooperative larketing Societies came under the
category of general purpose marketing cooperatives.



. 84..
4.83     There are 64 t(ogional Cooperate 1v Marketing Societies
in the State*, Their main functions arq (i) to procure and p   e
agricultural produce from the growers (ii) to supply fertilfiears
peaticides, insecticides and other agricultural inputs to th
farmers, (iii) to provide better services such as distribution of
consumer gooda and other essential commodities,
4.84     9 RCMS marketing godowns in Orissa were included in the
evaluntion attudios,  Tho lmpact of marketing godows have been
usue3sued on thle basis ot evaluation data.
Cabactv iUtilisatIo.
4.895     lie capacity utilisation of the marketing godowns with 9
sampled CM:3 has been worked out on the similar lines to that of
rural and marketing godowns already discussed. A ttble giving
district-wise and State-wise capacity utilisation o.C sampled
marketing godouns with 1IONS during 1981482 to 1982483 i given in
table 1 in Anncx-XIII. It would be seen from the table that there
lhas been some decline in the capacity utilisation of marketing
godowns during 198aw83 as compared to 1981482 which is almost akin
to the trend in capacity utilisation of marketing godowra with State
Marketing Federation, The reasmns attributed to the lower capacity
utilisatlon of marketing godouns with RUMS are the same as given
in the case of marketing godowns in operation with the State Marketing
Federation.
4.86     The following table gives business turnover of 9 sampled
RCMS from 1979480 to 1982-83:-
Commodity        1979-80    198041      198182        19843:
Paddy              7.810      6.062       5683          3.309
Other Agricultural
Produce            0.482      0,134       2,984         2.231
Fertilisers        5.275      8.042       6.840        15.872
Pesticides/
Insecticides      0179       0.355       0.203         0.873
Seeds              0.050                   . -          1e935
Consumer goods     1.043      0.913       1e150         10597
Total:       14.839    15506       16.860        25.835
4,87     The 9 sampled RCM  registered considerable increase
In their business turnovetr from 197940 to 198243,



-85 -
Business Tu=over of All RCQS in OrigsA
4088      The following table gives broad dimension of the
business turnover of all the Regional Cooperative Marketing
Societies in Orissa from 1977-78 to 198283:
B.usiness Turnover gf RCMS inl ORissa
(NB An millions)
Ycar                      Total Value
1977-78                        174,5
1 78-79                       178.6
197980                         187.5
198081                         252.9
1981-82                        213.0
1982-83                        302.2
Tlh.e details of business turnover of RCMS in Orissa are given in
.table I in Annox-XIV,
4.89     The above table shows that there has been significant
increase in the business turnover by RCMS in Orissa.
4.90     The following table Cives income and expenditure of
9 sampled RCM8 as shown in the balance sheet:-
(s.ib omizllions)
Year             Income         Ependiture        Profit/oss
1978-79            1.255            1.351           0.096
1979-80  A1.436                     1.671        - 0.235
1980-81           1 .732            1o938        - 0,206
1981482           2.472             2.240        +  0.232
1982-S3           2.793             2.710        +  0.083
4.91      The perusal of the above data brings out that an
the RCMS included in the sampled have been incurring losses from
1978-79 to 1980-81. They turned the corner after the allotment
of marketing godowns under NCDC-I from 1981-82 to 1982-83,



-86-
OrissaL_JtatL'e rba iJevelogment CooRerativg CoEroration
4.92      This is t;he Apex Institution under the lForest Marketing
tuctor.  Tlhp Tribul I)ovelopituniL Uooperative Corporation (TDCC)
has been playing an important role in procurement and mnrketing of
forest produce as well as in distribution of consumer goods and
other essential articles in the tribal areas.  At the time of
evaluation study only one marlkoting godown was handed over to the
TDCCe
C,Aacity Utilisation
4,93      The capacity utilisation of a single 8"odowr. in operation
with the Corporation at the time of survey has been calculated
and given in the following table:-
,~ l  ~   1IaatJ.sior (;odown witli TixC
(Perc _nU )
1-1axinmum        73.9                63.2
Minimum           65.5                56.6
Average           69.7                59.9
4.94      There has been decline in the capacity utilisation of
marketing godowms with TDCC during 1982-83 as compared to 1981-82.
This is in line with the trend in the capacity utilisation of
rural and marketing godowns. Capacity utilisation of the godowns
allotted to TDCC is on the higher side as compared to that of
the marketing godowns given to State IMarketing Federation and RCMS.
Business Tlurnover
4.95      The business turnover of Orissa State Tribal Develop-
ment Cooperative Ccrporation is given in the table 1 in Annex-XV.
There has been a steep increase in the business turnover of
TDCC from 1977-78 to 1982-83 with year to year fluctuations,
The business turnover of this Corporation has increased from
iRs.42 millions during 1977-78 to ns.83.3 millions during 1982-83.



_ 87 -
V. CONCLUSIONZ
5.01      The IDA Storaqe Project has brought many
nositive aspects in the institutional building and
working of the NCDC and participating cooper-itives.'
Thle Project h.as brought the national and State level
organisitions nearer to the grass root level cooneratives
*nd enabled them to identify the felt needs of the
farming community. The Project h?s led to improvement
in formulation, appraisal, im,plementation and evaluation
technicues of the participating organisations.  The
achievements in the terms of creation of additional
storage cap;city annually under the Project has been
much above the lev.'lrn normally attained in this regard
prior to the implementation of the Project. The
Projnct h.-s been n boon to tho farmers as its has provided
sinqle contact noint to the farmers.for meeting their
requirements of credit, inputs and consumer goods.
The farmers find the rural godowns convenient, useful
and nrofitahle.
5.02      In the ultimate analysis, the Project has
created and nurtured deep bonds of shared values between
the NCDC and State level graduated cooperative institutions,
fostered a spirit of cooperation and helped to plan a
most effective cooperative. delivery system directed
towards meeting the requirements of the farming community.



ANNE I
rricul~-+_al Production. Fertilaer Used Sraz Coacitv               TABLE j
i: rro.jeot states  Moui biennial i*tervalJ)
_uantities in miflion toea)
1972-75  1 3M;  §r-7:323
Produc-ion of
Foodgrains -
Harvana             4.07        3.34         5.26              5.40        5.80       6.60
Uttir iradesh       16.13      16.33        19.52             21.20       22.10      24.10
Orissa               4.80       3.97         5.95              6.60        7.40       7.95
Y e of  ertilisers
kmaterial) -
Haryana              0.23       0.17         0.30              0.41        0.58       ).73
Uttar Pradesh        1.12        1.02        1.05              1.95        2.37       2.85
Orissa              i;.A        0.12         0015              0.27        0.38       :.51
Estimated Storaee/
Trasportation
requirement-
Haryana              1.45        1.20        1.85              1.95        2e15       2055
Uttar Pradesh        4.00       3.65         4.30              5.00        5.30        5.90
Orissa               ROA        0.85         1.20              1.40        1.60       1.80
Cooperative Storage
Capacity;
Federations and RCM4S-
Haryana              0.04       O.O8         0.10              0.15        0.24       0.32
Uttar Pradesh       N.A         N.A          0.16              0.17        0.19       0.21
Orissa              I.A         N.A          0.06              0.10       0.14        0.19
Cooperative Storage
percent of the total
requirement -
Haryana              2.7        6.7          5.4               7.7        11e2        12.5
Uttar Pradesh       N.A         N.A          3.7               3.4        3-5         3.6
Orissa              N.A         N.A          5.0               7.1        8.7              Contd



Aiii3X I
Actual                        Project ons
1972-73    1974-75    1976-77             1978-79      1980-81      1982-83
Village level
Cooperative _t. -rage
Haryatva            NIA      0.09        0.10               0.11           0.16          0.21
Uttar Pradesh       N/A      0.10        O.20               0.35           0.50          0.67
Orissa              N/A      0.10        0.11               0.12           0.15          0.20
Source: SAR9, HICDC-I



-90-                        ANNEX  II
Amour4 released under N4CtC-I (IDA) Cooggerative-storaae Projlect
(Rbs in millions)
1978-79 1979-80 1980-81 1981-82 1982-83 1963-84 1984495         Total
(upto IIth
-          -        -F-eb. g 8)
HARYANA
SCB Godown    6.50   15.05   15.57   15.28    9.70   18.78        2.33       83.21
0 & M                  -       -        0.15     -       -         -          0.15
Engineering
instruments    -       -       -        -       0.03    -          -          0.03
Vehicle        -       -       -        -        -       0.19      -          0.19
Totals-       6.50   15.05   15.57   15.43    9.73   18.97        2033       83.5a
State obvt.   1.63    4,88    6.44    3.69    0.19    3.37        0.25       20.45
ORISSA
sca Godotn    0.37    2.23    7.53   10.12    7e87   21.67        1,25       51,04
a & x          -       -       -        0.23     -       -          -         0.23
Engineering
instrumEnts    -       _    *  _        _        _                 - _
Vehicle                                         0.55    -          -          0.55
-         -                         -   -    - 
Total:-       0.37    2.23    7.53   10.35    8.42   21.67         1.25      51,82
State Govt.    -       -       4.16    6.18   10.95    3.21       0.98       25,48
UTTAR PRADESH
SCE Godown   18.17   49.84   30.04   34.86   42.34   14.13    15.45         205.01
0&M            -       -       _        -        _       _         _          _
Engineering
instruments    -       -       -        0.17     -       -         -          0.17
Vehicle        -.   0.51    0.09    1.24         -       0,26      -          2.10
_-    -                    -_      --_
Totalt-      18,17   50.35   30.13   36.27   42.34   14,57    15.45         207.28
state oovt,   8.79    8.70   10.70    4.31    9.31    0.92        7,94       50.67
- - -  - -, - 
Source s Storage Divisi6n, NCDC.



-91-
YEAR WISE EXPENDI'UftR  UDE.R WoDm BDA
COOPERAIV E SCRAEPROJECT  YEEFC&YSTS
Year       Harvana          Uttar Prdesh       OrisaT
1978-79      -                 -                7,52           7,52
1979-80     26e07            190e72            41e99      * 258,78
1980-81    119.71            335.48            59.93         515.12
1981-82    102,85            655,84           105.95         864,64
1982-83    106.21           598.38            151,26         855,SS
1983-84    234.93           831037            141.75        1208.05
1984-85     46,93             a                 4.34          51.27
(upto Deo..1984)           (upto Feb., 1985)
Total      636*70           2611.79           512,74        3761.23
Marketing
godowns    358,60            177.00             *            535*60
Grand
total      995.30           2788.79           512.74        4296.83
* included under different years.
.;ource: tuteo Coo.) r;-tieive Banks
Projec t ;, tc;



STATEMENT SHOING TM TOTAL COST INtNRED ON Te
COtJSTRICTION OF GOONS tWR THE NCDC-1 ORLD
RANK COOPERATIVE -Sr*"  32MICUDIT N_.67-Lm)
CaseltnnIn
eflee~~~~~een ~      ~ -en eeO
Si. stoto        Categor         Godoun        Total      edawo                   Godomi        Toal    PsOtlo.
No.              godo         . g tiD gl.d    cost                                              3WDm'. UK%V  a_  as on
.-    imwO e p .P d   we       t'-                        d8+I
cwsed be jib
*                                                            .  .ed
pet to be
I. Haryana       Rural       94      9450     79.40  9Qv 91700   26  2600 74.13   30*.00  777.s1    30.*9,
*  MarketIng(F47    l 5000    597.67   57 16000              -597.6      -      9"7.    2.2.09
Total 8                 1sU      1iL~L~T~                  ~ .L             ~     Ji~m
2. Uttr Pradesh Rarl        3566   346400    3279.64 356 3460        -0                  1.00 3145.0       1. *365
Mktg. (Fd.  188 77.24.  16. 40-.L.-....               o       1*7s          ..
Total a         a5m   39UJM|     317.W  t.        -               -k-  Wi      ;    iSr f
3. Orissa &   Rwi"l          758   67150      630*30. 730 6460           2600 520.63  172.10  69333   30*665
(Rhhabilitatton) 200   15100       41:63  200 15100    -                   27 JS.S
RC"S   l9B   542g   .23  *97    o       1   250 22 3   .'  21 5035.0
TDO          10   10000       41.64    5 70000    9           3230     14.24   46.32
oscow  19   2woo      80.50       -20000          - 6360    4.42   68.01    06.2
Arll otJs Irrs 118   ISMa I-   lr3-9 I                               8041   W9-UN r 
guresf are r  a ens SW   ta     On t5 bOIs of fiROl blle pald so ref and alelpatee.
xpndlture  ikely to be incued.
Ltalh deotes aw haurdred thousand.



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF HARYANA STATE COOPERATIVE BANK
--. .   -i la;cis)
FatSic;Eialrs   I Jotb7    hal-=7     122/9721    Met0       1i21       Wl-8i2-   19b2-83   139`
O'im fu:-.d       '19.77    570.56     682.41     783-77      a3b.72  1u2b.49   1.25.19   1425.98
Deposl-s3        115.8f    2866.11    3Y97.28    4258.41     4492.41   5138.85    55(/.06   5fi.b7
3o0roi0.n8a      b47.24    27*.2d    3264.68    4155.7'7     j291.25  7640.o2     9616.40    925(.06
Profits.           3.72     101V o.2   129.76     114.84      i3t.9o   142.68      22)0.28    I 10,84
iiorkir<i, Uapital 8,59.72   5940.60   8474.79    914.24    11294.56 14430.30    17192.48   17542.34
jtayanlces maae
a) CTt ,ri-      4j o.27   5711.26i  7727e.U     743b.u    lloo v.13 11b1.02    1.7;;19e19  147b3elb
b) hT sri.         9.b3    27T.14    3'3.12      12o3.13      4ou.Iu  bor.69      i&.O5        40.52
c) uzhers.        61.62  p5509*53   6304.18      4540.64    5470.55  4354,b4    519t.34    j00b035
*rotal       !554.72   11499.9,  14422.32    13060.27    15810.58 10073.05   21000*58    20710.03
Loan out-.
Standingot      747.43    411 b. 9  5574.73      6979.33     8203.93 11744.34   13632.87    14412.18
Uverdues,        12.44      186.49    144.04       16.20        1.72     2.04.      1.74      273.02
%of ovexrdues 
to demand         2.z1        1.93      1.01        0.41        0.01     0.01       0.01       1U.30    c|sc
Source: Ha.yana State Cooperative Bank



FINA;;CIAL l. .A.... ATORS OF U.P. COOPrXRTIVr -  ;                2
(Rs. in Crores)
S.No.      Particulars         1977-78    1978-79    1979-80    1980-81    1981-82    1982-83    1983-84
1     Recoveries            112.22      129.97     139.97     135.79     127.52     198.31      187.76
2.     Loan outstanding       140.16     160.34     195e00     250.17     337.13     382.57      428.43
3,     Overaues                 1.69       2.06       6.76       8.95      21.72       14.13      23.70
* 4.    % of overdues to
demand                  1.48       1.55        6.04       6.01      14.37       6.65       11e20
5.    Overdues to
outstanding             1.20       1*28        3.47       3.58       6.La4      3.69        5.53
6.     Credit exDansion
a)  S.T. Agril.       112.59     125,64      119.50     135.87     141.43     145.90      166.86
b) X.T. Agril.          7.37       15e71      58.04      22.50      19.55      54.45       54.24
c) Others             213.15     201e20     282.12      399.36     430.57     462.01k    507.1.7
Total             333.11     342.55     459.66      557073     591.55     662.36     728.27
7,     Deposits.              118.73     130.02     159.50     195.94     231.12     255.38      304,60
8.     Owned funds            18e76       24.96      33.05      40.35      46.29       53.97      65.49
9.     Profit                  2.17        2.82       2.95       3.06       3.22       3.63        3.64
SOURCEs U.P. COOPERATIVE BANK.



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF OtISSA SLT  GOOP,V BAN
-r Ficulars              1977-78 1978-79 1979-80 180-81 1981-82 I982-83   1953-84
Owned Funds                 446.70  534,39  782.18 1Z51.80  1342.66   1768.66  2314.56
Deposits                   1892.76 2320.37. 3022.08 3493.13  3886o61   3376.41  2985.64
BorroWings                 1628049 2225.92 3777.45 5261.08  6182.95   9170.68 10536.60
Profit                       30,00   40.30   55.15   79.51    91 .51       97.49    82.00
Working Capital            4081.08 5159.72 7778.11 10120.86 11720015  15095.52 16735,28
a) S.T. Agril.             1199.60 1825.11  2263.53 3268.58  3696,9    3407.76  4624.94
b) 4.T,/L.T. Agrilo        1192.52 1262.74  2534.42 2456.75  2472.89   4338.59  5614,23
c) Others                   740.74 1174.90  1.163.67 2355.99  4188.18   5847.63  4773.55
Total:                  3132.86 4262.75 6761.62 8381.32 10357,98  13593.98 15012,72
Overduesa (including dues
against liquidated society)    2.72    2.48    2.48 .  2.48      2.48       2.47     2.47
to  oeDe <f overdues          0.02    0.05    0.02    0.02       0,02       0,02     0.02
Percentage of overdue     *    .079   0.038   0.036   0.28    0,023         0,018    0,016
to outstanding007                      003     oo6 002002                     01      o6
Note: The profit has come down on account of crediting
Rs81.00 crore towards Bad debt Reserve by debi
P8L A/o.
Source: OXC



A:NEX IV
Table 1
-U2ers_ic^itis;, ¢. zmuinesz_   A=nov%:r czX 3  1t¢  oolieties
ii. in .lasv
Uo:n,-Crciui Aznacver
Ye3r  _r.eis    _____ L~otiuuer ioo ds                         Aoal .o;a-  'iota.L credil  ilercentaZe.  of
o, ;.Of bocie- 7      n * of   *otal wmw  creait           and non-credit a4of-creait
tA.es ue±l±n, i ura   sociezies over          tumover    cumnver          tunover to
over  see ...1±nz                                          zotal
coruslu;er                                         over
ao~~~~~~ -G                                .             -           -_
1970    1vu.:v1       ~~     ~~19  44.d                 1.19        45.YS      -324.jO           l9.b1
19081      ';9!9.04           21          U;t7         IL     ?7:'         'its .;'Y   j-)'731           23.2%)
19b1-82    29).1i             47          o6.o         19      7.84         fjt.84     e;Wa.9           ;d4e14
1!82-83    3bt2.94            jO         11                    9.b         1u.96       491.50
percenitaLe 9                             10o.1              720.2         180.4       10.8-
increase
over 179-80
oource: ZvcrAlu t I.on Division, IDCDC,



AI4EX IV
Table 2
LUJversifiep.tioll oX &"siness ~:umoyer: Of  42"       cckt
Uttar rrarpash.
nz,A  ialkhsj
a..n-%;r:ea;±t Lurnover
Year      Creuit         Ferziliser         C.asumer 7oo.s  isroure;acx7t .       .otal      *ota1    = dit
turn-                                                                     .1Caul -o. .-cei
c;'-aai z     .'.on- turnover t3
over   iSo. o.  vtc U. _turn- 1. o. OA ....a.    Ato. - wZ   O   ct. M-
socie-  over           socie-   tu-    soci_-   tutrn-         over       t;rn-    over
ties                   zies     over       ies     uvr         over
bse liing          rocur -
fertili;,er            corsumer           in,, foocd-
..~oo_s      .    Xra-.s
I'tb-79  ;5O..,2     :f        u.11       37       43.1t       2      1.b4       100.1       463.43    Z3.07
1979-60  442-1,      56         5,oj      j4       1C.91      11     11.07       115.Z7      5o1.4Z    2z1.24
196o1,  416*.;7      A4       10.10    126          Y.;Z7    e-4    30.e         ;;94.99     71.i->    41.3:)
1&U1-o2  4>0,U;>t    11       i.1.      li>     1Vi2.52      3C     57-73       491.4. -42.O4 59 017
liffk-o-;) 467.99    126      ;52. v3S   1.;Ob    iva. 70     40     a.05        63;).0     1<.{        t4
rercenta;e 30.9               4 2                 34b.7           528.68         42.         142.1
increaise
over 1Y/a-79
Source: 2valuwxtion Division  I!C.DC



.;x Tv
Table 3
Jiv'^^_:c_tiv:. cw tu;;less Xu-:.v-er ox cc sa,olcc socict..es
bvissv                                    s.:s~~~~~~~~. in kIl-s)
x ear     _i_e_it           _ _c.n-...reuit 'lurnover
U.Uno-             ier-tilier         ton4suer Soccs  -MVthkr coaocLi-    Xota2    loTai tercentaee of
ver                                             .            s               nun-       crt non-crait
.  Onco  turnover zo
;_ee -'~    ....... -fties sel±.iii_  ti;E-    oCdes Zunuri-    vurx,    -           ver
L_ .   over   conrsumer Qoocl  over   Lea.a_ine ,  o-ver    Over           over
197'd-79   4?'.18                 1a.d7       11           4.52       10     1.77      1i6.76     60.94        3u'-.78
19'79-00   &;j.76       22       1U*07        14          1;>.27      1 1    3-; 7     L:9.0.1    94. jy      35.01
1980O-1   66.6b2        2;        14.75       17         1i.84        1U     2.51    .34.1    1CC.7a          ;j.ob
1t81-62   U1.62          aa       17 .15      21          Z. 22       11     164       4.C       127.63        36.05
1'r;x   84.,>         >:l2      18.:vo     2;o         29.23S      11    10.YZ    :5a3.o:    14.:P.16       41.1 
ikercenta,;e  9'u9                51 C                   546-7             505.6    13.7        1 3e0
iiloc s
over I V(8-79
* resticiaes, saeds ana otner Asril,, produce.
Source: LrvIlu:-tion Diviz--on, NC;=



Statemnt showing the         ture Incurred to roepect
of 01chn'cal Als$ Itane  umjk               ICDC
(Ibrd Bak   omaLtit  taj.pg
st.ta/lnotttuotica                     category under whids 5i0muLtmr                 SaqpendIture Ineurse i b*Im
1. U.a                               t vecls              of 4
vskd    ucwe of .8 ft
foee vehelece &2
I 'ngim mtoccl                                     0.620
Ia  0S Beues.La
00322~~~~~~~~'
*                         .ite      j0.l                              '
4- } Ve1" t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*430
3L owe aftass                                AnD,  o
me~~~~r cyce,                     2800
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  |
3. Ouisee  I Vehicles (lurdi.. f~~~~~~~ four



-100-
ANNEX V
TABLE 1
Business Turnover of 60 Sampled Soci.tics
in Horvana
(Rs, in Lakh)
Year      Credit        Distribution of Agril.       Distribution of
Disbursement  inouts                       consumer goods
No, of      Total          No. of         Total
societies   turnover       societies.    turnover
1979-80     392,00         32         130.2            25           10.05
1980-81     552.43         45         186.95           41           20.93
198Y-82     647.46         48         245.01           37           12.39
1982-83     754.63         51         260.43           37.  .       12.77
198384      780.04         51         296.4            37           11.65
Source: Haryana State CoopQrative Bank



ANiZX V
,sinkess 'Au.a-vver   j s         oied   oieTies
utzar rr-aesh-
; ein-lekhSJ
&ear or  *Credit            Fer-ciliser             consumer .. coas    Procurement of Foodgrains
-o3tmenlt d.tsburse.e:it *ixo. o_    1otal 'L ur- -*1iO  or  *otal -tur-  Mo.I   . .    Value
. .           socie ies  o            szcieviesover          socieie.:-
1 79-80     72.61           13       -1.b6         11        4.3           2            1.13
90.29          lb        41.74        2j        zo.b4          5           6.50
1 1-82    1e9.55           2;5        b2.36        34       52.17          8           37.80
1;i zea3    144.o0          30        X._50        34        0; v ,4      12           43 ;b
1 4        170.28          _4 Abe.1                j4        77.14        11           4b,49
o
)oturce: ;.o:1ci: Ba.ik .'ura1 G-ozo:.n Project, U .P.



-102-
iu'iWU v
.BUSliga;&  TU.RNOMR6V 3@ E!
Your    i;riodit       Ui:.tribution ot  Distribution of
_        aisuurseluijit &Gril. invuts    *Oo;Aaor. icOodg
No. o:  Total 'o, of  Total
socie-  turnover  socie-   turnover
tcs      ties
19,19F8Q>d .*29           2?-     4e08       19       4.65
1 .4404-U1   bo,36        23      6,17       22       8.33
1901-82      87.42        23      8*28       23       U.22
1' 2--d3     88,81        23     1U0.75     23       14.81
1983-84      90o39       2?3     16.10       23      18,46
Source s Orissa State Cooperative Bank.



BUSINESS Tt'RN0V>5. CF P.CS                       in lakhs)
HARYA.A
Particulars                      1978-79   1979-I 0    1980-81   1981.-82  -- 1-93Ti91983--8-4
No. of Societies financed
by ^3s                               2062      2075        2038      2089        2122         2180
Total Zrelit                         9437.86   8901.11   12404.07  14888*85    17705.2>    18371.01
Distributi±n of fertilisar           2482.84   2026.94    2781.33   3907.99      3613.72      4146.44
Distributi_n of consumer
articles                               68.25    329.37      624.61    312.95      308.23       300,53
Zou-rc : Recistr-r of Coo-erR.Sive 6ocieties, Htnry-alna.



T1ABL 2
BUSINES: U.-IUVER OF PACS
VtLAR PRADE:SH                       Value s in Pse crores
1975-79    9-0      1980-81       1981-82      1982=83    1983-44
No. of PAS                        8654       8611        8616        8607         8602       8602
Total Cr-_it                      179.74     217.88      188e93      221.28       239.71     357.98
Distribution of Fertiliser
'No. of PAS                       4720       6296        7157        7570         NeA.       NeAo
Value                             125.S0     120e92      107.35      139.91       137.58     203.49
Distribution of consumer goods
No, of ;AZ:S                      3256       4878        7157        7570         7594       7600
Value                               5.42      14.84       69.27       72.64       104.06    195.60
Distribution of Pesticides          -          0.03        0,002       0.004        0.007      -
Distribution of Seeds
Value                               0.71       0.37        0.28       0.55         0e54    NeA.
Procurement of Foodgrains
wheat price spport policy
Quantity (lakh,tonne)             Negl.        -           _           -            485    80.2
Value                              _           _           _                       77,15     121.98
Source . Registrar of Cooperative Societies, U.P.



-105-
ANNE§ V
8UjINES,TURNOVER OF-PACS
OJUS2Q                      (Rs. inr lakhs)
1979-80    1280-81       1981-82    1282-83
No. of PACS               2793       2793          2793       2795
Total Credit              6270       6719          6965      10514
Distribution of
-ferti liser
No, of PfkA              .1837       2Zi51         2569       2544
Value                     806        1252          1170       1613
Distribution of consumer
goods
No. of PACS               1660       1795          2218   .   2505
Value                     1128       1297          1229       2011
Distribution of seeds
ValUe                       20          32           30         27
Marketing of Agricultural
produce                     298        206          938        333
Source s Registrar of Cooperativs Societies, Orissa.



-106-                               c
TABLE   rm'
!ncome and Expenditure, Profit/Loss of
tte pamoleA societks in in Z000'
In9=1-B80   1%808net  1981_8,2   V8 8 a-S
Io. o° Societies                  S        16        33           3.3
Marqa on credit turnover       41,7       307.84    737,88      907.50
margin on non-credit
turnover                       17.0       104,48    219.12      284.46
TOTAL INCOME                   58.7       412,32    957900     1191.96
_;ND~XTR
Salaries/gstablishzmnt         43,49      216,96    414,81      454#74
Others                         14,56       65*92    123,42      171,60
TOTAL WXMINDITURS              58*05      282,88    538*23      626e34
PROF1 !/Loss                    0,65      129o44    418,77      565.62
source s Evaluation Division* NCOC.



--- ~~~~~~~~t FLMU'*~                               MNYh
1.   1990      00         .1()010          *aa                I)01                       a) .0   ()0-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         .~
7                                         la
a.   ga19o9     19                  o,S -9                         c9 t   0-1        - _      *
a.   i3oo"    Ion         O0s"     0493      0,11       00.5                                                     *
3.&6 a;:8   o3      a                            an     1
6.   3W       L D7156l 6                                12k                 ,j:      X      a ot      i3 .S. 2z    8 1 1:
9R    9|$  51   ¢o   8ER  32S      Sg          s       Sba  44                             " 
12.15ffl   0                  10  1.
99o ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    19 1L                                0.336 o.20b        ,5**  *  11A2Z
a                                  *  lo
20J4       0        1,a
"I'*   I   21.         0.       212       12         0.7      j,9a *.510
lee~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20                                                223 022f
5.16    ri0,7    24,4                           I                         6.        50
wwo. ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ 1



-108x
Table 3
0               03.63             0
X              8.00            . 001
a             12.35             149
3              0024             4.01
4.      ,         40            SO6
S              0024             7,56
6               e024            8.53
7.             0.24             9.62
8              0.24            M0.83
9 .            0.24            12.19
10              0024            13.69
11              0024            14.6S
-12             0.24            15.67
13              O.24            16.77
4               0.24            17.94
15       '      0.24            19920
16              0.24            20.54
17              0.24            21.98
Il *            0.24            23.s2
19              0,24            25.16
Fiaaclel lte of Retura   29.6s5
Sour  8 avalustUO Dlvlol)s. ROe



TABL- 4
ta;;.led  scieties in utcar rradesh. .-s6 An 000)
19t79_80               19081            1YlI -SI->C28
Iio. ofi societies    14                      75               142                 142
Income
isar,in on crecit     o6.38                 477.75            1126.06            1221.20
zurnover
i,,argin on non-credit  54.04               660.00            1989.42            26bd.18
turnover
tfotal income    140.42               1137.75           3115.48             388W.38
44Denditure
bay/ sta aiSaflisdnt 104.30                 690.00            1652.68            1949.66 
'taors                35.14                 150.QO            462.92             >46.70
Total expenditure    139.44                 840.00           2115.80             2496.36
ProXits                0.98                 297.75            999.68             1393 02
Source: 3valuation Division, MCDC*



8Xo    yea       ProEt   De          Cak       pra   zama  no *ask                  U&L    Ne eas
amr p-   Crt
O    sn     O,q        w      ()0e6             _0)0X                   _, _. do         00F    (_}04
.e~~~~ lst    .1}     l59         1039                           e9      o_lBl1
3e  199s1-2      9e99     3b31        6se6      __6l1                        o                 6617t
.5  19S2f    1-!          33|        15* 79    3-i                                                       9 g$08$3j[
60    1m        IMdl      331        lae       ¢1       76g7    13o16   o.a    "20                       19el2
7?   1 6           O      3J31       2*72    5"Si       6F            S     BOO       44   w   U9,04
so I            Own*    Uj   325*2  M¢l   36                       t        t       2    ' a 
llo   19B9.90    *4          31       36*16   5e1W1     4elIIl lW    Ol        5l                           *
12*  1990*91  tXl      Sol9w               g501     400           11 1" ea   oI*0                     1s
Us  1991-92    45X19       3o31       41:3     s e1      3*7           1Z_3ie                              W3
ISO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 110 o90                                              _        16Zi74
16   99s                              la'      ;*5       a 15e  SB     °4Xl7
Ile  129         5697 g    32         ; 0wi    2:06      I              |      o;  g                    *ge
190  1997-93       e82      WI1       681~-6eg                                                            40
2010  1S9Bs    72:6        3o3l        95       wo6W                           ~-9  f                     1W



S.                   -111-                             ,
Tabl 6
. maw  mU OW1!Z
o              ,,,10o                0
1               44.15             0001
a               51b7,l>09         5ti03
3.               1.10  .          9099
-4               1*0             13,93
.5               1.10            19.10
6                1.10            21.99
7                1.10            2503
8                1.10            26.54
9                1.10            32048
10                1.10            36eS
11                1.10            39.47
12                1.10            42,23
13                1.10            45019
14                1.10            46.35
15                1.10            51.74
16                10              55036
17               f11              5,o23
1o                1010            63.36
19                1.10            67.62
Flea*al Rote of btw  u 19,62 %
Sou1e 8 awmuatim D1ih@  90



-112-
Xncoum and Eoenditura. Profit/Loss of
M mt  in  000
1980-81    198142      198283
No. of SocietlQe                   2          21          21
Margin on Credit turwver        1973        418,25      514.61
Margin on non-reidit
turnoer                          7,80      200.42       251.22
Total Income                   27.53       618,67      765.83
EXPINDItSS
Salaries/gtablisthment           7.52      293.42       362,98
Otlhors                         33.68       321.24      274*46
Total expeditur                 41.20       614,66      637.44
Profit/Loss                 -)  13.67         4*01      128.39
source I Evaluation Division, NGDC.



CASH FLOW 0 SAX2LMD  CIZ?T:S iI OFISSA                   T     8
(DAIn lalshs)
S1. Year   E-rofit    Depre-        Cash       Prin-   Interest i;et cash   Rtepur- Ailvi-   Let ;a   CuG!la-
No.                    ciation    accrual      cipal              accruals   chase   dend      accruals tive uet
azt er pay-  of                          cash
:e-.t of    equity                     accruals
Principal
& Tnterest
13    2        3          4           5                    7          8         9       10         112
(. 4)                         (5.46+7)                     t852910)
1. 1980-81 (-)0.14      0.03    (-)0.17                             0 _  (-)0.17  _     _      (-j0.17  -   0.17
2. 1981-82    0.04      0.37    (-)0.33          _         -     ()0.33         -       -      (-0.33   -   0.50
3. 1982-83    1.28      0.37       0.91          -         -        0.91        -       -         0.91       0.41
4. 1983-84    1.54      0.37       1.17        0.05      0.06       1.06        _       _         1.06   *   1.47
5. 19B4-85    1.85      0.37       1.48        0.55      0.76    (.0.17         -       -      (.0.17   +   1.64
6. 1985-86    2.02      0.37        1.69       0.55      0.71       0.43      0.49    0.04        0.10   +   1.54
7. 1986-87    2.22      0-37       1.89        0.55      0.66       0.68      5.89    O.47        5.68  -   4.14   1
8. 1987-88    2.44      0.37       2.07        0.55     061        0.91      4.69    0.38      _ 4e16   _   8.30
9. 1988-89    2.68      0.37       2.31        0.55      0.56       1.20      3.50    0.38    _-2.68   -  10.98
10. 1989-90    2.94      0.37       2.57        0.55      0.51      -151       2.30    0.18    f_ 0.97   -  11.95
11. 1990-91    3.15      0.37       2.78        0.55      0.46         77      1.10    0.09       0.58  -  11.37
12. 1991-92    3.37      0.37       3.00        0.55      0.41       c.04        _       _         2.04   -   9.33
13. 1992-93    3.61      0.37       3.24        0.55      0.35       2e34                         2.34   _   6.99
14. 1993-94   3.86       0.37       3.49        0.55      0.30       2.64                         2,64  -   4.35
15. 1994-95    4.13      0.37       3.76        0.55      0.25       2.96        -       _        2.96  -   1.39
16. 1995-96    4.42      0.37       4.05        0.51      0.19       3.35        -       -        3.35   *   1.96
17. 1996-97    4.73      0.37       4.4*3436                                                      4.36        6.32
18. 1997-98    5.01      0.37       4.64         _          _        4.64        -       _        4.64   +  10.96
19. 1998-99    5036      0.37       4.99         -          -        4.99        -       -        4e99       15.95
20. 1999-2000  5.74      0.37       5.37         -          -        5.37        -       -        5.37   +  21.32
Source: Evaluation Divisions, NCDC.



-114-
FINANCIAL RAT OF REURN OF
SAMD SOCIETIES IN ORtSSA
(tS. in lakha)
Year               Outflow           Inflow
O                   1.09         (-)  0,14
1                  12e22              0.04
2                   0,13              1.28
3                   0.13              1.53
4                   0e13              1.84
5                   0.13              2.02
6                   0.13              2,22
7                   0.13              2.44
8                   0*13              2.68
9                   0,13              2.94
10                  0.13              3.15
11                  0.13              3.37
12                  0.13              3.61
13                  013              3*86
14                  Oe3              4.13
15                  0.13              4.42
16                  0*13              4.73
17                  0.13              5.01
18                  0.13              5.36
19                  0.13              5*74
AINCIRATL E OF RETURN    17.80
Source : Evaluation Division, NCDC.



flaIryatia                             '
* o of 14att. SlN.m........ n;;;e OX U;oeown  wilu stora,e         14ew.4;odow
. sLA ~~1.  Cdolouri v_
4°      tluR                  4S 
U.     aundru                                         0._
*s *¢'ao:4l{A  55    lura4,wali           4                        .5
1, .    L.khwana;                                        i
¢(W 4wUt    i4.    XU4a6uwu'ra.
12.    l%ularb n an2
#        ~~190    id;lSlaslag            ;i-i )
--#.   ier ASuLrura           S
20.     Sli..1pur                5-
Sourc  i Vauto  Diiin,_



-116   .                    24~~~~NNEX   X
Years                  1         2         3         4         5 to 20
Cogts
Project investment   331        702      1124        -            -
Incremental
operating cOsts       22.6     116.5      213.6    272.3        272.3
Total Benefits        '9.6     179.6      344.9    477.0        7 percent
Sconomic Rate of Retum  a 18,00 percent
UTTAR PRADESH
Project investment   751      3564       4821
Incremental
operating costs       .72      408        1087*    1303         1303
Total Benefits       S.        441        1196      1764         7 percent
Economic Rate of Return  * 12.15 percent
OR1ifSA,
Yewas                    1          2          3         4 tO 20
Project investment    92          1035.                    -
Incremetal
operating costs          6          9S       105          105
Total Benefits        1.90        103.34    142.0         7 percent
Sconamic Rate of Return = 8.66 percent
hree Prolect States
Total Project
Investment           1174         5301      5945      -           -
Incremental
operating costs       100.6       619.5    1405.6  1680,3        1680.3
Total Benefits         62.50      723e94   1682*9  2241.0        7 percent
Sconomic Rate of Return  - 11.32  peoment per am *.
Sources Evaluation Division, NCDC.



-117-                          -
TAB 
rerenomkt~  QARaC±tvX U$ij±satioU oi i-1jorket1g (l 4ovn
Plotrict    Ln ira}           Axamw.t NauE  Qaa   eornai
Ambala        *2,5    20.3      21.4    24*1      20.2    22.1
Kuz'uk1ugwltra  '14.!j   4Xub    61.6    471.1    41.7    44,4
Sonepat        2e6      2.6      2*6      -
53.2    27.5    40.4    59.5    47.8    53.6
-vanlltXl     7t3e    69-9   7'/1.6    '/4.5      7149    /3.2
i-d                       _       _      66.5    55.9.   61e2.
1-ijisar        -        -               32,      22.2    27.3
Uurgaon       37.5    33.8    35.6    43.7    38.6    41.2.
Faridabadd    vg.      86,4     Q.N1     93.4    88.2      90.8
State as a
.ihole        60.2    4b.O    53.1    51.9    45.7    48.8
Source s Evaluation Division, NCDC.



-118-
ANNX X
Percentage Capacity Utilisation of Marketing Godowns
Constt_ed_ unde  NCDC-I p,inttPradesh
District/            1980-81                 1981-82           1982-83
centre         M                     Maxi- Mini-  Aver- nMaj   Mini.
mum    mum    age    mum       mum    age   mum    mum    age
Bulandshahar   27.6   14.6   21.1   60.9    53.6   57,3  73.7   60.7   67.2
Nainital        75.0   59,5   67.2   79.4    65.2   72,3  91,0   73.3   82.8
Jalaun           -      -       -     36.2    36.2   36*2  77.4   62,2   69.8
Allahabad        -      -       -     97.1    81.4   89,2  87.5   54.7   71,1
Gorakhpur       76.4   27.0   51.7- 109.0    84.4   96,? 100.6   74,3   87,5
Dooria          76,0   45e2   60.6  102.3    85,3   93,8 101.8   72.9   87e4
,Jaunsur        84.8   84.4   84.6  108.1    90.0   99,0  59.8   55.5   57.6
i3arabanki       -      -       -     (30.2    53.8   67.0  76,0   62.2   69.1
Oha-*ipur       59,8   25.2   42.5  105.5    91,8   98.6  71,4   56*5   63,9
A1gra           41,8   31.0   36,4   94.2    77e3   85.8  98.3   71,8   85.1
Kmnur            -      - _                 -     _          72.0   48.6   60.3
Pilibhit        56.2   10,4   33.3  107.3    84.8   96,0  84,9   71.2  .78.1
Aligarh          7.9    7.9    7.9   64.7**  52.6   58,7  76.7   62e7   69.7
Rampux          30.0   27.7   28.8   80.0    68.3   74.2  91.0   73.S   82.3
Ghaziabad        -      -       -     59.4    37.9   48,7  83.8   62,4   73.1.
Muzaffarnagar  94.8   29.8   62.3. 115.3    69,8   92.6  98.5   45.4   72.0
State as a
Whole           57.3   31.9   44.6   85.4    67.8   76,6  84.1   63,0   73,6
Source I Ekvaluation Division, NCDC.



-119-                         ANNEX X
Table 3
egenta,e C4 2gjtX Uti-itL  Of Widd *- 
c        d      .          .    *           .......... *
*~ ~       .   .     . . .                 .   . 
Balasore.    b465    148.2    ;6,4   47.2    34.7    41 .0
w&ayur bha=    27.3    2506    26.5   3607    29.4    33oe
Dken mxal    -                  -      5203    33.4    42,9
JUXloriorh    -      '          m      17.9    *l o2.   16o6
Sam'balpur    80.3    70*3    75,J   61,3    51.7    5605
Loraput      26.8    16.1    21.5    f4.4    54.9    64e7
1ri          27.7    16.2    21.4   25.1    14o2    19.7
Uuttack      4545    39e6    42.6   26.8    20.3    23.6
Uar4am       6801    43e1    556   6606    57.1    61.9
(risaa State 60.5    47.5    54*0   46,2    35.6    40.9
Source 8 Evaluation Division, NCDC.



Buiness Turnover of PC' Tc  in crores)
UTAR PRADSH 
S.1o. Items                       1977-78  1978-79   1979-80  1980-81  1981-82   198283    198334
1.  Fertiliser                    73.08    100.35     95.43   127*84   130.15    114.88      134.27
2. Sed                             00.40     0.44      0.79     0.18     0.96      0.50        2.60
3. Electric Hbtor/Apoliances       0.01      0.01      0.09     3.37     2.11      2.08
4. Marketing
(a) Own account                3.21      3.71*     3.25    8.05      S.35      7.21       Seel
(b) Other qccount              7e32      4.54      6.55     5.12     5.91     33.00
5. %beat                          76.52    101,53     54.81    85*88    83.38    11184     130.30
6. Paddy                                                at-     9.46     8.28
7. Sugar                            -         -        7.S3   S9.91   172,04    205.45      227.97
8. Cloth                           9.68     10.52      6.63     7*06     4.10    . 
9. Edible Oil                       -         -        3.87     3.18     3.15                11.35
10. coal                           0.22      0.12      0.80     2.23     2,41     11.80   '
11. Rogin/Tezpntine                0.11      0.17      0.11     0.19     0.02      0.30       0.24
12. Vinco (vanaspati)              0.9S      1.02      0.84     0.98     1.68      "2,25      2.52
13. Medicines                      0.16      0.25      0e34     0,23    0.23       0.21      019
14. Pres's                         0.20      0.20      0.23    0*26      0.25      0.36       0.26
15. Marketing of Patato             -         -         -        -        -        0.19        -
16. Cottage Industry               0.13      0*13      0.11     0.11     0.11      0.11       0e13
17. Others                         3.50      4.21      3.17    0.37    0.32        0.05       0.31
TOTALs-                175e49    227.20   184.S5   314.42   420.45   490,33       515.9S
SourceS- PC1? t!TAR PRADB



Busineps Turnover of                                               xi
.y-zr= .aae U;o4erta.-.ve                 Aketin  FeIeration  J
~~~~~~~~~~~~- - lue: t4. ca crores
Iteiu             1 Sh-9    I i-z0   1:0<;t  _ I z1-82              9b2-u   I ;b~84
1. Fertilise,r      4Z.60   :33.38       46.4        p2.95 44 5               57.539
2. resticiues         0.24    0.A1         .29   a      .40     1iot           1 .b  4
3>. 'Wheat          28..7   77.60        u2.70       !8.41      69.74         50.94
4. Graw               0.<0     1.65       1.05        1.44       0.40          0.04
:. 93 Brley          O.J       0.05       O.oo        O.o        0.11           -
b. .a.ize             0.01    0.01         -           -          - .
7. iiice              0.716    5.29       15.2C,      3e11       9.61           47,66
o. %;otton            p.06    v.58        5.42        4.67       4.19           '093
9. eruit/j.t          0.10    0.05        0.10        0.11       0.02           0.01
10. Ju,r               -      1.06        5.32        1.34       2.60           2.70
11. uilsceds          U.-r-3    0.1(      0,72        0.e2       0.36           0.e4
12. uthers           1c.311  11.1:     i-.b5 l.73               9.12
rot;al:        92.40   136.10     I6-..56     139.4b     146.47         141.75
Source s Haryana StatB Cooxerative Mark.eting Federation.



Ag    - XI
tJ5s - _ ._Y;t' 1j:i_ o^X  i lt  rjw.*x..ui.    Ai3
value: .iz  lakh
41    Lte.Qs __ac ivities   l:7-8       ja=7,i79e8             J29alu .   vaXue 12ai:e
No,                         V.aLue       vlue&       Vi1ie      Vjalue      i vaaue     tfa.Lue    vue
1. i)istrib1.lion of        1248.4b    10714.36     844.11     lb84.77    1t37,32    1b48.73    1929.29
eerst"iser
2  DistriouiDLon of
iesticices/
Insecticides               8.52       28.69       30.60       6.70       13.06      84.51       45.47
3. Distribution of Qeeds       0.99       42.82      49.76       70-35       14.84        -           -
4. ListribLtlon of 1gr±l.
Implemaents.
k5prayers/.uaters)         0.$1        1.59       0.10        0.04        0.51      21. 88       9.45
5. Distriout. .on of
Airil. ?r-ciuces
a) Padciy o Rice         325.78      231.72      354.66      21.n       146.44    367.76        77-43
b) Other sril.             2.16       11.85        7.22       2.12       56.88    123.47        88.47
6. other activities
like cement
A.C. sheets etc.           2.98        5.88        4.02      19.19       11.68      46,50       33.71
7. TOTAL                    1589.20    139B.91      1290.47    1804.e12    1580.73   2292.85      2183.82
SOJtE   Ss



-123-
Annual Profit/Laoss of
State Marktina Pderation
(Ri, in cmroes)
Yoar                        Profit or Igoe
Uttar PraOesh         Haryana         O0rssa
1978-79       0.21                 0.70            No pzofit no  loss
1979-80       0.53                 1.40                -do-
1980-81       1.69                 1.06                -.do.
1981-82       1.17                  1*05               -do-
1982-83       1.04 '-) 2.64                            0.11
1983-84       0,12                 0.02                0.09
(tentantive)
Source 8 Information furnished by State Marketing
Federations.



-124-
Distrlct itiamum Av   ma Avm
Cuttaok     5291  39e1    45.6    35.1         26e8   314k)
layur Bh=n  39,(  25.2    32.5    56.4         33*3   44*4
Koraput       -      -       -       24.3      17.9   21.1
Kalaidi               .      -       459       40.7   43..
State as
a Whole     46.4  32,8    39.b    4393        30.5   37,0
Source s Evaluation Division, N=D
r



-125-
Business Turnover of R,C.M.H.8
ORISSA
r. in I     )
1977-78  1978-79   1979-80  1980-81 198182  198238
No. of R.C.M.S.           59        60        63        63       64       64
Distribution of
fertilisers
No. df RMS                58        58        62'       62       63       62
Value                   1023       956      997       1440    1160      1543
Distribution of
consumer goods
No. of ACMs               57        52        59        61       63       61
Value                    412       383       419       479      321      580
Distribution of
pesticides                31        19        18        30       23       57
Diatribution of
seeds
Quantity (tonnes)         92  .    192       448      1489      297 4     40
Value                      3         5         5        18        4        4
Marketing of
agril. produce           276       423       436       562      622      838
Total (Value)          1745       1786     1875      2529    2130      3022
Source i Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Orissa.
l



-126-
* kALJJki 't±lwk~ UAJ"J   aC.V O-a    * h(a g 
ta;,. irn la~j
Yeouw     urjlus Agricult1ural  Minor F'orest..   Con. umer     Total
-_''dO  t, .Ad.)    ~ rucdj') )IiUL3j.fO8 -
1'197-7&3         98.,6'               116e06        205.31     420.04
19)70-'19          64.63                89,60         191e'/7    34b(.00
1979-80           126.76                118.74        176.09     421.59
1980-I            *51.&6'                69.87        145*.O     267.04
I*Ju1-U2           9J.e26               201.51.       1030b9     6o0046
1982-W3           1i o0                 119.76        117.86     392.95
19832;-d4        v176.97                518.40        137.28     832.65
6vultUICs TWUG  U1bSA



-127 -                      Annex XVI
li*O*Noo 5(4)/8!7-PBeVIII (S 
RECO. AC. DMV.
RB.D. Plathur                        3 0 AR WI
Under Secretary      ~    WT11
Tel: 3016420  aov     ta, h   (Bat al Maj
y d Plm.  Via Mtraa)
Dqwrtmat CI d   mowc Affars cAh Kaya Vibba)
it ft/MOIw DeI  29th AprI,    1e 87.
Dear Kir. Orimahaw,
I am enclosing two copies of our
comments on PCO relating to NCLC-I Project
(871-Ir),  Thie PCR was sent to us for comments
by xivr. Donaldson, Chief, (6D with his letter
dated 13.3.87.
I shall be grateful if a copy of the
comments is passed on to Lr. Graham Donaldson
for inclusion in the finnal Project Completion
Report.
With regards,
Totars slncerely,
(R,D. Diathur)
M4r. R. G. Grizehaw,
Chief, Agriculture Division,
The world Bank Resident Mission
India
1~or Baghs, New ~Delhi,



- 128 -                   %nnex XVI
Page 2
&e cc ueat of NMD  I the draft Project coml1ietoa Leport
o  NOD0aI ProJect (Credit No.871-1I) forwarded by World Bank wide
their letter dated 13t    m1987 are as 1uders4.
We a" broaly in areosent vith observation of the
World Bank. Nowever, the 'Ovorview' Is para (xiv) has,
made co rta   observations which are at variance with the
conteAto of the parwn from 3.54 to 3I58 of PQR   It WoUld
be seon from tk.o       under eference that P01 does not
mu et that the Project Approach has led to wotage of
ti.  ad effort. 0 It does not msbea that the tlm  would
have bem saved If a blanket loan approval had beo  given
to all flaoially viable cooperatives, It has only
bronAt out that delay has boe  caued ia some cases ia
Orissa as a result of strIUALOatIoA    fPJect
ak 2he POR documents the advantae of the Projeot
Approach and also agreo with the0 sugestions of the World
Bank Appraisal  issio  that 10% of the soellotie  to be
selected at random basis at district level should fMl In
a detailed loan application ora and the rest of societies
a only fIl II l a shorter version of loan Application.
It wlll help is quick disposal of the applications and
availability of more reliable infomation. In cases of
godowas of hi*er deomination, Project Approach cowerlng
technical, financial and maagement criteria would be
nocessar* thus, POR only advocates judicious application
of Prject Approach rather than Its total rejection ove
la case of small pdowe .



