Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2426-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
December 7, 1978
IThs dcmen b  a rhhluld dltbtg md my be wed by ecpiet only in te perform of
|heir   l dute. lb eButs ma t ads_rwia be disdusd withu Wod Bank awthortion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of November 16, 1978)
Rs 1.00            =        Paise 100
US$1.00            =        Rs 8.15
Rs 1.00            =        US$0.1226
Rs 1 million       =        US$122,600
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the dis-
bursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC      -      Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOH       -      Government of Haryana
GOI       -      Government of India
GOO       -      Government of Orissa
GOUP      -      Government of Uttar Pradesh
NCDC      -      National Cooperative Development Corporation
PCS       -      Primary Cooperative Societies
RBI       -      Reserve Bank of India
RCS       -      Registrar of Cooperative Societies
SCB       -      State Cooperative Banks



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrpwer:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
for onlending to State Cooperative Banks of Haryana,
Orissa and Uttar Pradesh.
Amount:              US$30 million.
Terms:               Standard
Relending
Terms:             (a)   India to NCDC:  At interest rate of 7.25% per
annum minimum over fifteen years;
(b)   NCDC to State Cooperative Banks:  At interest
rate of 7.75% per annum minimum, repayable over
fifteen years;
(c)   State Cooperative Banks to cooperatives:  At
interest rate of 10% per annum minimum repayable
over fifteen years, including three years grace
on principal and interest. Interest during grace
to be capitalized;
(d)   GOI to carry exchange risk.
Project
Description:           The project is intended to strengthen the institutional
framework responsible for promoting and financing develop-
ment of cooperatives, particularly village level multipur-
pose cooperative societies. The project helps NCDC and
State Cooperative Banks to introduce a more disciplined,
project-oriented approach to financing basic facilities
for village cooperative societies, regional marketing
cooperatives and state-level cooperative federations.
Investments comprise construction of godowns for these
cooperative institutions. Technical assistance, vehicles
and engineering instruments are also financed.
I This docurment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project godowns would result in increased avail-
ability of inputs, particularly fertilizer, at the village
level with consequent agricultural production increases.
Some 5.7 million farm families are expected to benefit as
cooperative society members. The main project risk is in
ensuring that the primary cooperative societies achieve
and maintain viability. The project has been designed to
keep technical and financial aspects simple and straight-
forward. Implementing staff will receive appropriate
training and support. Thorough appraisal and follow up of
godown investments should also limit the risk involved.
Measures to coordinate, monitor and expedite all phases of
implementation have been discussed with NCDC, State Govern-
ments (including Registrars of Cooperative Societies) and
State Cooperative Banks.
Estimated                                                      Total         Cost
Cost:                                            No. of    Capacity         US$
Godowns      Tons       Millions /a
Haryana:
Marketing Federation                  70         214,000      6.7
Primary Cooperative Societies    1,500           125,000      7.9
Subtotal                           1,570         339,000    14.6
Uttar Pradesh:
Marketing Federation                  35          50,000      1.7
Primary Cooperative Societies    4,600           410,000    25.6
Subtotal                         4,635         460,000    27.3
Orissa:
Marketing Federation                  23          20,000      0.6
Tribal Development
Cooperative Corporation              6          10,000      0.3
Regional Cooperative
Marketing Societies                280          80,000      2.4
Primary Cooperative Societies    1,040           104,000      5.3
Godown Rehabilitation              1,100          80,000      0.9
Subtotal                           2,439         294,000      9.5
Technical Assistance,Vehicles
Engineering Instruments                                       0.8
Total Base Costs                                          52.2
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                     2.6
Price Contingencies                                             9.1
TOTAL                                8,654       1,093,000    63.9
/a Foreign exchange costs, mostly indirect, would amount to
about 10% of total project costs, or about US$6 million.



- 111 -
Financing Plan:                                          (US$ Million)
IDA                                     30.0
NCDC                                    17.8
State Governments                       12.9
Beneficiary Cooperatives                 3.2
63.9
Estimated                                            (US$ Million)
Disbursements:                        FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual              2       5       6      6       6      5
Cumulative          2       7      13     19      25     30
Rate of Return:      22%
Appraisal Report:   No. 2198-IN, dated December 4, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO.THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$30 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance cooperative storage facilities, primarily
at the village level, and to strengthen institutions responsible for
cooperative development, particularly the National Cooperative Development
Corporation (NCDC) and State Cooperative Banks. IDA funds would be passed
on by GOI to NCDC at 7.25% interest per annum repayable over 15 years. NCDC
would in turn lend the funds to State Cooperative Banks at 7.75% interest
per annum also for 15 years. The State Cooperative Banks would relend the
proceeds to primary cooperative societies and marketing federations for godown
construction at terms of 15 years, including 3 years grace, at 10% per annum.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas, their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (Report No. P-2381-IN) dated November 30, 1978.



- 2-
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from State to State.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 250
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which



- 3 -
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases.  An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround occurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with 1.3
million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved extension
system, which has been getting heartening results, has been introduced in
several States and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and
good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The
circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the develop-
ment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall invest-
ment and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7%
per annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum
during the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
oF construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--has been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



- 5-
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more States and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several States in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricul-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to



the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out.  Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the
century, implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best
guess" projection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many
of the benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of
the century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier
change in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow
more slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the
primary and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will con-
tinue to grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s,
resulting in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force
from 40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development. With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts
and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability



of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 55 loans and 108 development
credits to India totalling US$2,236 million and US$6,077 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively.  Of these amounts, US$934 million had been
repaid, and US$1,652 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of September 30,
1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.7 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.4 million, US$26.7 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



- 8 -
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



-9-
lending. As of September 30, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled
US$1,343 million, of which US$539 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$804 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND COOPERATIVES IN INDIA
General
30.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 43% of value added and
accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in agri-
culture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
31.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth
obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of time, between crops,
and between regions. The overall rate is very much affected by the serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974. At the same time, the
success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to annual increases in wheat
production of about 20% between 1967 and 1971, and three consecutive favorable
monsoon seasons in 1975, 1976 and 1977 resulted in bumper crops in these years.
Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same
success as wheat, mainly because of the difficulties of developing high
yielding seeds. Consequently, the effects of the green revolution, which
primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in northwestern India.
32.       GOI's recently published Draft Five-Year Plan (1978-83) gives even
higher priority than in the past to developing the agricultural sector. GOI
recognizes that faster agricultural growth is necessary not only to increase
output but to increase employment as well. GOI's policies aim at increasing
the rate of irrigation development and making more readily available to farmers
a complete package of agricultural inputs, including fertilizer and credit,
appropriately supported by improved extension services and research.
33.       A key element in this strategy is the development of the village
cooperative society which in much of rural India is the only institution at
the village level situated to provide credit and other inputs and post harvest



- 10 -
facilities to help farmers progress toward higher technology agriculture. The
proposed project focuses on strengthening the institutions dealing with vil-
lage cooperatives, and helping to provide the cooperatives and their marketing
federations with basic facilities required to carry out their input supply and
post harvest storage functions.
The Cooperative Situation in India
34.       The cooperative movement in India started in 1906 with a program
to organize farmers' credit societies. Through various promotional programs
and support from Central and State governments since that time, cooperatives
have spread throughout India, including widespread penetration of rural areas.
GOI's emphasis towards cooperative development has changed over time. Cooper-
atives at one time held a monopoly on GOI credit and input distribution pro-
grams. In the 60s, GOI policy began to be more oriented towards achieving
productivity gains, and other agencies, as well as cooperatives, began to be
employed in credit and input distribution programs. This resulted in competi-
tion from other agencies and a need for cooperatives to enhance their manage-
ment and operational efficiency. GOI, endorsed by the National Commission on
Agriculture, is currently carrying out a program to strengthen village level
cooperatives, and to make them more efficient and more responsive to farmers'
needs. The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) (see paragraph
40) is an important instrument in carrying out this program.
35.       In general, the cooperative infrastructure is organized under a
three-tier system in each State. In the villages, the Primary Cooperative
Society (PCS), using deposits from members and institutional borrowings,
provides short and medium-term credit, distributes farm inputs and consumer
goods, and provides primary marketing services. The PCS are the most important
source of institutional short-term credit for farmers. In FY1976, PCS provided
some Rs 10 billion of credit to members. This is estimated to have covered
about one-third of short-term credit requirements of farmers; the remaining
requirements being mostly met through traditional non-institutional sources.
PCS in each district are members in a District Cooperative Bank that provides
funds for credit, and also in a block level Cooperative Marketing Society
which provides wholesale marketing services to PCS. District Cooperative
Banks are in turn members of the State Cooperative Bank and depend on it for
refinance and other banking services. Wholesale marketing services required
by the block level Cooperative Marketing Society are provided by the State
Cooperative Marketing Federation.  Procurement, storage and distribution of
fertilizers, foodgrains and consumer goods make up most of the business volume
of the Cooperative Marketing Society and Federation.
36.       Long-term cooperative credit in India is provided through a two-
tiered cooperative credit structure made up of State land development banks
at State level and primary land development banks, or State land development
bank branches, at village level. These long-term cooperative credit institu-
tions, together with commercial banks, are the channel for virtually all of
the IDA resources which have been provided under past and ongoing agricultural



- 11 -
credit operations in India. The Agricultural Refinance and Development Cor-
poration (ARDC) is the intermediary institution through which IDA funds have
flowed for long-term farmer credit programs, which have emphasized minor
irrigation development. Performance of the long-term institutions, particu-
larly of ARDC, has by and large been satisfactory, and ARDC has developed to
the point where it has taken over subproject preparation, appraisal and
monitoring functions from IDA. ARDC's refinancing operations in 1976-77
amounted to some Rs 1.3 billion for State Land Development Banks and Rs 0.9
billion for commercial banks.
37.       Timely loan recovery has been a persistent problem of agricultural
credit in India - affecting short and long-term cooperatives and commercial
banks. The problem is more acute in some areas of the country than others
and most severe where local political interference has undermined credit dis-
cipline objectives. Average overdues as a percentage of demand for primary
cooperatives societies, for example, ranged from 60% in some States to 5% in
others as of June 30, 1976. GOI and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) are
concerned about maintenance of credit discipline, and have imposed minimum
recoveries criteria on cooperative banks participating in IDA-supported
agricultural credit projects. Commercial bank lending for agricultural
development has grown rapidly in recent years and there is now a need to
improve recoveries for these institutions as well. This is a subject being
explored in the context of the next ARDC Credit project, planned for late
FY79 or early FY80.
38.       Credit is only one aspect of the services provided by cooperatives,
particularly the short-term primary cooperative societies. These societies,
and their non-credit activities, are the thrust of the proposed project which
seeks to strengthen their multi-purpose character and enhance their ability
to provide a range of services to farmers. One of the main problems of pri-
mary cooperative societies (PCS) is that many are small in terms of number of
members, financial resources and volume of business. Consequently, they are
unable to pay for competent and full-time management, to make investments in
storage facilities and input supplies or to provide other services which
farmers need. Concern of governments over poor performance by cooperatives
has thus led to several policy changes, recommended as a result of studies
made by the Reserve Bank of India in collaboration with State Governments.
The thrust of the policy changes is to reduce the number of societies by
merging them into viable units and strengthening their ability to provide a
range of services to farmers. The late seventies has thus seen a deliberate
decrease in the number of primary societies -- from about 175,000 in 1973 to
125,000 in 1977. Along with these mergers, the aim has also been to change
the character of the primary societies from mere credit institutions into
multi-purpose cooperatives providing input supplies, storage of output and
other services for farmers.
39.       GOI's program to develop and strengthen multi-purpose primary coop-
erative societies and their cooperative marketing federations is being carried
out by several institutions. The most important at the central level is the



- 12 -
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), described more fully
below. At the state level, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) is
responsible for promoting cooperatives, supervising their operations and
conducting an annual audit of their financial activities. State cooperative
banks also play a role in the development of cooperatives by providing refi-
nancing for primary society credit activites and financing for direct coop-
erative society investments, such as the godowns under the proposed project.
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
40.       The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) is an all-
India public institution established by GOI under the National Cooperative
Development Act of 1962 to plan, promote, develop and finance agricultural
and agro-based industrial cooperative enterprises. NCDC participates in
development schemes of cooperatives engaged in production, processing, storage,
marketing, export and import of agricultural inputs and output. Under the
Act (as amended up to 1974), NCDC is authorized to advance loans, provide
gran.ts and subsidies, and participate in the share capital of cooperative
enterprises either directly or through State Governments and State Coopera-
tive Banks. Within these broad limits of authority, NCDC has helped finance
cooperatives in a variety of activities including storage, sugar factories,
spinning mills, stocking and distribution of fertilizers, and distribution
of consumer goods in rural areas. NCDC has also provided technical and
financial assistance for pre-investment surveys, marketing studies, feasi-
bility studies, and training.
41.       NCDC is governed by a General Council of 51 members and a 12 member
Board of Management. The Council is responsible for NCDC's policy whereas
general management is vested in the Board. The Managing Director who is also
a member of the Board is the chief executive. He is supported by a financial
advisor and six directors in charge of marketing, processing, fertilizer
storage, rural consumer goods, textiles, and research and evaluation depart-
ments. NCDC has a staff of about 350 including more than 100 executives
specialized in cooperative and administrative management and technical aspects
of agri-business. NCDC has eight Regional Offices.
42.       A major source of NCDC's funds in the past has been GOI which makes
funds available in the form of annual budgetary allocations. The NCDC Act
does not provide for share capital but NCDC is authorized to borrow from the
market by sale of bonds and debentures. The total of bonds now outstanding is
Rs 220 million. Retained earnings are credited to a capital account styled
NCDC Fund Account which had a cumulative balance of Rs 455 million on March
31, 1978. Borrowings from GOI on this date amounted to Rs 767 million.
43.       In the past, NCDC has channelled loans and subsidies to client
cooperatives mostly through State Registrars of Cooperative Societies (about
90%), and sometimes through State Cooperative Banks. It also lends directly
to cooperative federations and cooperatives with interstate business opera-
tions. NCDC's loan participation in individual investments has ranged from
50% to 75% of total costs, the balance being met by the borrowing cooperatives,
State Governments as loans and share capital or by State Cooperative Banks as
loans.



- 13 -
44.       Since its inception up to April 1978, NCDC has provided Rs 2,325
million (US$270 million) for various cooperative development schemes. Of
this, Rs 2,025 million (US$235 million) was provided as loans, about Rs 269
million (US$31 million) as grants and subsidies and Rs 33 million (US$3.8
million) as direct participation in share capital.
45.       Loans outstanding at April 1, 1978, totalled Rs 1,330 million
(US$155 million). About 90% of this was owed by State Governments, 8% by
State Cooperative Banks and 1% by other cooperatives, roughly the same as
the disbursement pattern. All loans to State Cooperative Banks and 'State
Cooperative Federations are guaranteed by the States concerned. NCDC's loan
recovery record has been excellent.
46.       NCDC's income has steadily increased over the past four years.
Excess income over expenditure at the close of 1977/78 was equivalent to 35.7%
of gross income for the year although this ratio has declined slightly from
higher levels reached in preceding years. Major liabilities are Rs 766
million owed to GOI and Rs 220 million in market borrowings. NCDC's debt
equity ratio is 2:1. NCDC is a financially viable institution and is expected
to remain so.
47.       Since NCDC had hitherto not been used by the World Bank Group as
an onlending channel, a Bank Evaluation Mission visited India in October/
November 1976 to review its organization, policies, procedures and perfor-
mance. The mission concluded that NCDC would be a suitable onlending channel
subject to implementation of various recommendations which were conveyed to
NCDC in April 1977. NCDC engaged the services of the Indian Management
Development Institute to help it pursue these recommendations, which were
mainly directed at improving NCDC's project preparation, appraisal, and moni-
toring capabilities, and expanding its role as a development banking insti-
tution capable of undertaking cooperative development projects with State
Cooperative Banks. NCDC has since made a number of adjustments in its orga-
nization, management and procedures. The most significant of these are as
follows: (i) restructuring and staffing of the Fertilizer/Inputs/Storage
Department at headquarters, giving greater emphasis to investment appraisal,
godown construction and monitoring; (ii) reorganizing and upgrading its
Regional Offices into Zonal Offices which would function as NCDC's branches
with adequate delegation of powers to the Zonal Managers so that they can deal
effectively with SCB and State Government officials; (iii) appointment of
Project Officers at the Zonal Offices specially assigned to help in imple-
mentation of the proposed Project; (iv) formation of an Organization and
Methods (O&M) Department at headquarters to be assisted by O&M consultants
to improve accounting and management information systems and procedures;
and (v) creation of a special division to support subproject appraisal and
monitoring activities. With these changes, NCDC is now better equipped to
carry out its role as a development finance institution promoting the co-
operative sector in India.



- 14 -
PART V - THE PROJECT
48.       The project was prepared by NCDC in association with the States of
Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. It was appraised by IDA in May/June 1978.
The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2198-IN, dated December 4, 1978, is being dis-
tributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1978.
The negotiating delegation for India was headed by Mr. J.K. Sibal. A supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
49.       While the main physical objective of the project is to construct
storage capacity needed by cooperatives in three States, the primary objective
is institutional, i.e. to help strengthen NCDC and State level cooperative
institutions, particularly State Cooperative Banks (SCB), and to promote the
discipline of sound project evaluation and supervision criteria in the coop-
erative sector. The project would strengthen SCB capacity to effectively
prepare, appraise and supervise cooperative development schemes and strengthen
NCDC's capacity to promote and oversee such activities (see Project Implemen-
tation section below). IDA would provide NCDC with funds for relending to
SCB to lend to cooperatives for godown construction in three States -- Haryana,
Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. Village-level storage in rural areas is urgently
needed for agricultural inputs and outputs. The scope of the project has been
limited to three States to keep the geographical spread within a conveniently
manageable scale. The States chosen also provide a representative picture of
the varying levels of cooperative development in India.
50.       The project would be implemented over five years and, in physical
terms, mainly comprises the construction of new godowns of about one million
tons capacity in the three project states and rehabilitation of about 1,100
godowns in Orissa totalling about 80,000 tons capacity. A small amount of
technical assistance, vehicles and engineering instruments is also provided
to facilitate project implementation. The project's physical targets are
based on studies of cooperative storage needs carried out by the Reserve
Bank of India and each State's Department of Cooperation. They have also been
adjusted to reflect a conservative assessment of the physical works achievable
by the institutions concerned.
51.       Of the total of 7,550 new godowns to be constructed, 7,150 would
be small godowns of 50 or 100 tons capacity for Primary Cooperative Societies
(PCS). A total capacity of 635,000 tons would be constructed under the
project of these small godowns which would be used for purchasing, receiving,
warehousing, selling and delivering farm inputs, mainly fertilizers. The
godowns would also handle seed, weedicides, pesticides, farm produce, non-
perishable food and other commodities, farm implements, and consumer goods
such as soap and kerosene. The godowns would serve as rural service centers
and would be focal points for expanded economic activity at the village level.



- 15 -
52.       The project would also finance construction of about 280 godowns of
250 tons and 500 tons capacities, totalling about 80,000 tons capacity, for
block level Cooperative Marketing Societies in Orissa. Block level Coopera-
tive Marketing Societies in the other two States prefer to secure their
additional storage requirement by renting from the Cooperative Marketing
Federations mentioned below. The godowns constructed for the Orissa Coop-
erative Marketing Societies would be located at rural market centers and would
serve the smaller PCS in the area.
53.       The Cooperative Marketing Federations in the three States and the
Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation in Orissa would construct a total
of about 135 godowns of capacities ranging from 250 to 5,000 tons each, for a
total of 294,000 tons. Haryana Marketing Federation would construct 70 units
for 214,000 tons, Uttar Pradesh Marketing Federation 35 units for 50,000 tons,
Orissa Marketing Federation 23 units for 20,000 tons and Orissa Tribal Develop-
ment Cooperative Corporation 10 units for 10,000 tons. These godowns would be
located at town centers and railheads and would serve the block level Coopera-
tive Marketing Societies and PCS.
54.       All godown buildings would be based on standard designs of four dif-
ferent capacities -- 50 and 100 tons for use by PCS and 250 and 2,000 tons for
Cooperative Marketing Societies and Federations. Design drawings for all
capacities were agreed during appraisal. Godowns with 500 tons capacity would
be double the length of a 250 ton unit and a 1,000 ton capacity would be half
as long as the 2,000 ton model. Godowns of 3,000 and 5,000 tons would simi-
larly be based on the 2,000 ton model, having their lengths proportionately
increased. Facilities provided for PCS would include storage space for
fertilizer, farm produce, and consumer goods. Facilities would also include
a sales floor, society office, drinking water supply, toilet facilities,
veranda, patio for meetings, and parking yard. NCDC's assurances were obtained
that building designs, specifications and construction standards followed for
project godowns would be acceptable to IDA (see Section 2.13 of draft Project
Agreement).
55.       With regard to technical assistance, local consultant services
totalling 60 man-months would be engaged to assist new Organization and
Methods (O&M) Departments which have been set up in NCDC and the SCB in the
three Project States--24 man-months for NCDC and 12 man-months each for the
three SCB. The consultants will help the O&M Departments review the organi-
zation of these institutions and assist in staff training, improving account-
ing and management information systems, and preparation of procedure manuals.
NCDC agreed during negotiations that consultants' qualifications and experience
would be satisfactory to IDA (see Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       To ensure mobility of the executive and technical field staff of
NCDC, SCB and of the participating cooperatives, provision has been made in
the project for vehicles suitable for field conditions. Thirty-three motor
cars for NCDC and SCB field executives, 150 motor scooters for junior engi-
neers and development officers to be employed by SCB, and 8,200 bicycles
for the managers of the participating PCS, would be provided.



- 16 -
57.       Finally, provision is also included for supply of 110 sets of engi-
neering instruments for use by the engineering staff of SCB and NCDC. These
are required in connection with survey, design drawings, construction, super-
vision and payment certification of the project godowns.
Project Implementation
58.       The project would provide the opportunity for the institutions in-
volved to introduce an improved and more disciplined system for identifying,
preparing, appraising, and monitoring progress of cooperatives' investments.
In each State, the field staff of the Office of the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies (RCS) and Project Development Officers of SCB would be given a
project orientation course by NCDC executive staff. The RCS and SCB staff
would then concentrate on project promotion and help identify cooperatives
ready to benefit from the godown construction program and able to undertake
and effectively use the desired investment.
59.       Each godown constructed under the project would represent an inde-
pendent subproject loan for which a financing proposal would be prepared and
presented to the SCB for appraisal and financing. Each cooperative beneficiary
would be responsible for preparing its own subproject proposal. However, in
the case of godowns for Primary Cooperative Societies, the State Cooperative
Bank Project Development Officer would assist PCS in subproject preparation
and help PCS managers prepare subproject reports and loan application forms.
Satisfactory training programs have also been undertaken in all three project
States to train PCS managers to help ensure they can carry out the subproject
and manage the PCS effectively. In the case of the Cooperative Marketing
Societies, Federations and the Orissa Tribal Development Cooperative Cor-
poration, management and staff are well trained and competent to undertake
subproject preparation and implementation, although assistance would be
provided as needed by SCB.
60.       Once a subproject had been adequately prepared, a loan application
would be submitted to the SCB for appraisal. Copies of the application would
be sent simultaneously to RCS and NCDC's Zonal Office who would have five
working days within which to make any comments to SCB concerning the applica-
tion. SCB would appraise the subproject loan application using appraisal
criteria established by agreement between NCDC and IDA (see Section 2.09(a)
of draft Project Agreement). The criteria would ensure a thorough review of
technical and financial feasibility and would include a review of the cooper-
ative's credit activities and recoveries performance. Minimum recoveries
standards consistent with those used in other IDA-financed agricultural credit
projects in India would be applied.
61.       Special responsibility for project implementation in SCB would be
that of their Special Loans Departments. SCB has made arrangements to
strengthen their staffing capacity to appraise, supervise and monitor the
godown construction subprojects. Each Special Loans Department would also
have an engineering division to take care of the technical aspects of sub-
projects such as site selection and construction standards. The engineering
staff would supervise the building construction by periodical visits. The



- 17 -
vehicles provided under the project would enable the field staff to carry out
these supervisions more frequently and effectively. Loan disbursements by
SCB would be based on work certification by the engineering staff.
62.       SCB would maintain detailed memorandum records, and ledger and
control accounts relating to all subproject loans. These records, together
with subproject reports and related loan documentation and supervision sum-
maries, would provide a complete record of each subproject cycle, its progress
including project appraisal, loan approval, disbursements, contribution
by the State Government, interest charges, installments due, collections,
overdues and follow-up action. These records would be reviewed periodically
by IDA supervision missions. Summarized information on these would be incor-
porated in NCDC's quarterly progress reports. Assurances were obtained from
NCDC that copies of the following documents would be made available to IDA
(see Section 2.14 of the draft Project Agreement): (i) annual work programs
and related cost estimates; and (ii) quarterly progress reports.
63.       NCDC would provide overall guidance and assist, coordinate and
monitor the activities of other participating agencies at all phases of pro-
ject implementation. It would also maintain active liaison with the govern-
ments of all three States and GOI. To help NCDC obtain proper coordination
from various state agencies involved in project implementation, a Project
Coordination Committee, comprised of senior State Government officials, would
be set up in each State to meet and resolve problems as required.
64.       NCDC would also be responsible for project evaluation.  For this
purpose, NCDC has arranged to establish an Evaluation Unit, reporting directly
to the Managing Director. This Unit would follow up project implementation,
identify problem areas, assess effectiveness of participating institutions,
and measure subproject impact on the participating cooperatives and their
members and the farming community served by the cooperatives. The Unit would
also compare costs and benefits realized with appraisal projections. The head
of the Unit would be an economist, supported by a statistician and a coopera-
tive specialist. The Evaluation Unit would be independent of all other
departments of NCDC and work in close collaboration with its Management Audit
(internal audit) Department. The Unit would be responsible for preparation
of a project completion report to be submitted to IDA (see Section 2.05 (c)
of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
65.       The project cost would be US$63.9 million equivalent over five years.
Foreign exchange costs, both direct and indirect, are estimated at about 10%
of project costs or about US$6 million. The IDA Credit of US$30 million would
finance 47% of project costs or 50% of costs net of duties and taxes. Remain-
ing costs would be financed by NCDC (28%), State Governments (20%), and
beneficiary cooperatives (5%).
66.       IDA funds would be passed on by GOI to NCDC on terms of 15 years
repayment at 7.25% interest per annum. NCDC would make these funds, plus
its own, available to State Cooperative Banks at 7.75% interest per annum over



- 18 -
15 years. State Cooperative Banks would, in turn, relend the funds to coop-
erative societies for godown construction at 10% per annum over 15 years,
including 3 years grace of interest and principal. Interest during grace
would be capitalized. All NCDC loans to State Cooperative Banks would be
guaranteed by the respective State Government, as is required by the NCDC Act.
67.       An SCB loan to a cooperative would cover 60% of the godown investment
cost. The remaining 40% would come from the cooperative (5%) and the State
Government (35%). State Government contributions to the primary cooperative
societies' godown investments would be contributed as equity or, in more back-
ward areas in Orissa, partially as a grant. The bulk of State Government con-
tributions (57%) would come from the State's general budget. However, about
43% would be obtained by way of loans from NCDC. Such loans to State Govern-
ments would be made out of NCDC's own resources (i.e. non-IDA funds) and the
terms would be at interest rates of 9-1/2% and 8% interest per annum in
advanced areas and backward areas, respectively, for repayment over 15 years.
68.       From a cash flow point of view, it is important that the financing
terms not be too onerous, particularly in the initial years. The terms
proposed are designed to ensure that cooperatives would be able to build up a
modest equity and achieve their social and economic objectives. The proposed
interest rate to the borrowing cooperatives of 10% is satisfactory for invest-
ments of this kind. The spread the SCB takes -- 2.25% -- is adequate to cover
its administrative overheads. The onlending rate of 10% compares to rates of
10-1/2% and 11% charged to farmers, cooperatives and other borrowers under
IDA-supported agricultural credit projects in India through the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). However, the ARDC rates reflect
the higher cost of its lending. ARDC-refinanced loans are typically smaller
(about Rs 4,000 for a farmer's shallow tubewell investment compared to about
Rs 40,000 for a typical godown investment under the proposed project). Also,
there are additional links in the ARDC lending chain -- district level and
primary level land banks -- which raise costs. Inflation in India over the
past three years has averaged,2.1% per annum. The annual inflation rate over
the next three years is not expected to exceed 6%. Therefore, the proposed
rate of 10% to the ultimate recipients -- the cooperatives -- would be positive.
Procurement
69.       The project would involve small investments by individual coopera-
tives spread over time and throughout the three project States. Thus, con-
tracts for godown construction would not warrant international competitive
bidding procedures. These would, therefore, be let on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Tech-
nical assistance services (US$170,000) would be procured locally. Supervisory
vehicles (US$560,000) and engineering instruments (US$12,000) would be procured
by local competitive bidding and/or prudent shopping as the quantities and
values involved in individual contracts would be small and international com-
petition would not be practical. Furthermore, local procurement of vehicles
is necessary to assure adequate maintenance and spare parts availability.
Procurement procedures in use are satisfactory to the Association.



- 19 -
70.       The Cooperative Federations and the Orissa Tribal Development
Cooperative Corporation are technically equipped to handle their own pro-
curement and construction supervision. Once they receive from SCB the con-
firmation of loan approval, they would proceed to prepare detailed building
designs and tender documents for award of godown construction contracts. The
other cooperatives (PCS and Cooperative Marketing Societies), however, would
have to rely on outside help for their technical needs. The engineering
division of the SCB would provide this technical support. Detail specifica-
tions would be based on standard designs and tenders would be invited for
construction contracts which would as far as practical be bulked based on
geographical and time scatter. This would enable the cooperatives also to
participate in benefits of scale.
Disbursements
71.       The IDA disbursements for godown construction (US$29.4 million)
would be made against NCDC's certified statements of loans extended by par-
ticipating SCB and refinanced by NCDC. For ease of administration, IDA
disbursements would be set at 80% of total loans made by NCDC to SCB.
Documents in support of these would not be submitted to IDA for review, but
would be retained by NCDC and made available to IDA for inspection during
Project supervision. Other disbursements (US$0.6 million) under the Credit
would cover: (i) 100% of technical assistance services; (ii) 100% of foreign
expenditure for imported items; and (iii) 80% of locally manufactured vehicles
and equipment and locally procured items. Disbursements against these three
categories would be fully documented. With a view to expediting project
implementation, NCDC and the three State Governments have initiated project
activities in conformity with criteria set forth during appraisal. In order
to support these efforts, it is proposed to finance expenditures for godown
construction, vehicles, technical assistance consultants, and engineering
instruments incurred on the project after July 1, 1978, but prior to Credit
signing, up to a total limit of US$1.0 million.
Project Benefits and Risks
72.       The project would help ensure timely delivery of fertilizer and
other farm inputs to large numbers of farmers. Lack of adequate storage to
hold supplies within a reasonable distance has been a major hindrance to
increased use of modern inputs. The primary economic benefits of the project
would be savings in transport costs and avoidance of losses of farm produce
and fertilizer through storage in the new cooperative godowns. The project
economic rate of return would be about 22%.
73.       The Project would also have substantial employment impact.  Godown
construction itself would provide about 46,000 man-years of employment during
the five-year project implementation period. Once construction is complete,
8,000 PCS managers, 6,000 storekeepers and 8,000 watchmen would be needed by
the participating cooperatives. The project's impact on increased farm pro-
duction is also expected to generate substantial employment.



- 20 -
74.       Institutional and social benefits of the project would also be
considerable. The project would strengthen the links between NCDC and other
institutions in the cooperative sector, particularly State Cooperative Banks,
and introduce sound project planning, appraisal and financial standards and
procedures which would carry over to other spheres of activity. The strengthen-
ing of cooperatives at the village level would provide a focal point for ex-
panded economic activities. The new godowns would provide a local market and
service center linked to the larger regional marketing and credit cooperatives.
75.       The project is expected to assist some 5.7 million farm families
(some 31 million people) who would be members of the primary cooperative
societies. Over 65% of them belong to the landless, marginal and small
farmers categories (small farmers having less than 5 ha of unirrigated land,
or 2.5 ha of irrigated land).
76.       The main project risk is in ensuring that the primary cooperative
societies achieve and maintain viability. The project has been designed to
keep technical and financial aspects of the project simple and straightforward.
Implementing staff will receive appropriate training and support. Thorough
appraisal and follow-up of godown investments should keep risk of failure to
a minimum. The risks are no greater than can be normally expected with
operations of this type in India and are acceptable in view of the benefits
which would accrue to the cooperative sector and large number of small farmers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the NCDC,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
79.       Additional conditions of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be the execution of the Project
Agreement and completion of financial arrangements between GOI and NCDC
spelling out relending terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
December 7, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                  INDIA                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           3280.5                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    1797.5                                 1DST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   60.0         90.0     150.0            167.4       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      142.0       181.0      221.0             65.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        434.9       547.6      631.7 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9          19.8      20.6             12.8        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 104.                      133.0        167.0     193.0             85.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        308.0      351.0            322.6      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.0        41.6       40.1             44.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.9        55.3       56.7             52.9       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1         3.1        3.2              2.9        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.0          2.3       2.1              2.2        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               2.5 /        3.2       3.1              4.2        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.2         41.0      37.0             45.1       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.9         19.0      17.0             17.3        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          2.9       2.8              3.2        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      3782.D    6821.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0      16.9             13.7       14.6         14.2
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              98.1        100.0      96.2 /h          95.6       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0         92.0      89.0             91.1       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.0        53.0       48.0             49.6       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0         16.0      12.6             12.6       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      44.0           ..        ..               ..          ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.7          47.2      49.5             43.1       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           139.0 /I    122.3      130.0             99.5       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         17.0      31.0             30.0       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..         60.0      80.0             66.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..          6.0      18.0             17.2       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         18.0      20.0             15.7       16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..         85.0      87.0             66.9       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                *-          1.0       2.0              2.5        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5840.0 /i   4890.0    4220.0            8830.8    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      5310.0 /i   5220.0    3680.0            8479.3     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2590.0 7    2020.0         ..           1624.5     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..               ..        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2           ..       5.2               ..        5.2
URBAN                               5.2          ..        4.8               *-        4.8
RURAL                               5.2           ..       5.3               ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8         .1
URBAN                                ...                    .                          1.8          2.3
RURAL                                .            .         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
25.9        28.3
URBAN                                                                                   8  ;       1  3
RURAl          ..           ..        ..               ..        ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.7  10.3



ANMEX I
Page 2
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHENT
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                     /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /C   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  41.0         63.0       65.0              59.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                27.0         48.0       52.0              38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  23.0         30.0       29.0              19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                11.0         18.0       18.0               9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  8.0             6.0 /k     ..               1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         38.0       40.0              38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           16.0         17.0         ..             23.5         19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0         33.0      36.0              35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.0        1.0               2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         21.0       25.0              14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         0.1        0.5                ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0      16.0               6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3       4.1                ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   175000.0    218000.0  261000.0 Lj
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31.3         32.6       32.2              21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               71.0         69.0       69.0              62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.3         13.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0          40.2      39.2              35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   57.1         52.3       51.3             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 27.9         27.1      26.2              15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.1          1.1        1.1              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7            25.0 Im     ..              18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7           53.1 i/       ..             42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1            4.7 I.       ..              7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           13.1 /m       ..             19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       80.0              80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       65.0              67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVRL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .,           ..         ..                ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..      41.0              39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       53.0              50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       46.0              44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise uoted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million;   /R  1951-60;   /h  1977;   /i  1962;
/i  1958;   /k  1967;   /1  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million;   /m  1967-68.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
Fage 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
hpo&M:  (be aij-tcd group ave-gea for each lodicator are popolation-wmighted gaamtscri  neas, excluding the extreme valus of the jodica.tor and the nost
populatd  ootr  i  ec  group.  Coverage of countriese anac  the iadicatora depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.  SOn to lack of data,
noporAg. forCepnlNapu O."       Il. npros and   i-dtcnnr  of etre.. to water end ...crata diaposal., ho..eing. Iocos  dietribution en,d povnrty Ar
sale populatiev-weigbged geometric seans without the enclusion of extram values.
LAND SAN  (thoneand eq. ha)                                                            Ponulatlon  er h..oita"ba  - tatal. urban~0. Andra.r   - Population (tota.1
eal- Total a-f.ce area comprising lad acm  and inland water..                        aran  an Arr_l) diie y therrnetr   ubro   optlbd
bario~ultaral - Mont rs...nt aetimate of agricultuaral area .and te"orarily             available in poblic end private genara1 and epeclalised hospital sod r-
or Perma nently for crops, paaturea, market and kitchen gardana or to                 habilitation renters.  Hospitals are aeteblisbwanta permanently otaffed by
Si  flo,at Isaac one physician.  Ietahliebmsnts preoiding principally cuetodial
car  are mat included,  flral1 hospitals, howevar.  inlde health and medi-
INP PER CAPITA (US5) - SIP Per uapita eetimaata  at currant market pricas,               cal cntetr. not perenanly etaffed by a phym.ica  (but by a medicalae
calc ulated by  a  cearion satb!d ee  endA lank Atlas (1975-77 baeis);                istecnt, sursa, aidwifa, atr.) which offer in-patient arconmodation And
19*0, 1970, And 1977 data.          -                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilitie..
.Adelei.nsoc  par hospita1 bad - Tota Io-.ar of ablcostn or diacharges
lUNGS COSIWPTIW  POg  WITA - aneval conseption of comercial enrgy                        from hospitals divided by the nombr of beda
(real ad iMelte, potrolee, natural gas end hydro-, nuclear And ge--
thrml1latrioity) in kilogrom   of coal sqaivelent per capita,                _______
Average sin  of bruabDoal  (peron  per h"ouahn1d)- total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION ADl VITAL OTAXI5IICS                                                          A housewld comiaimg  of a group of individuals who abate living quarters
Total populgtion, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not avaleble,                  an  their ala mea,le.  A boarder or lodger may or may not he in-lded in
averago of two end-year eatimatee; 1960, 1970. and 1977 dare,                         the houaahald far atatiecical purpunee.  Statistical dafinitions of heuee-
irban population (ar-ept of total) - gatio of urban to total popoa-                     hold vary.
tion; differant definitiona of urhao arees may affact comparability                Averaaa. uober of marsan  ear voom - cte   urban, and rural - Average   m
of data anag oouotrias.                                                               bar of pres  per  _a  in all, urban, And rura  occpied conventional
Pooclorion donnitv                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings, r-pm-tiv-ly.  Dwellinge enclud  noo-prrnant otuoonead
Per_ uu. k.. - Nid-yaar population per aqsars kilometer (1Sf hectares)                 uaacrupiad parts.
of totl,aea                                                                        Access to elactricity (percent of dwelling.) - total, urban, And rural -
Per sq. in. arcltrur  land - Computed e  above for agricultural land                   Conventiana  dwellings with eletricity In living qoartera as percen.tage
only.                                                                                 of totatl, urban, aS  rural dwel lings r-ape-t-ly.
Population a. atructare (percent) - Children (0-14 yrear)  working-ag.
(15-64 yearn), and retired (65 yeara and over) ae parnenteges of mid-            EDUCATIONi
year populatio..                                                                  Adjuated enrollmet ratios
Puoulation groutb rato (percont) - tota.1 And urban - Compound annual                 Primary acboo  - total an  famla - Total And fonirel obon  of all Agne
growth raco  of total and urban nid-ycar popqlatio.. for 1950-6S,                     at the primary level asIpercantagee of ree pectivoly primary schoo1-age
i960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populaticna; nornaly include. children aged 6-Il ynarn hut adjoared for
Crude birth rate (Pe;rtbon) - Annual live birtha per thouaaad of                        different lengths of primary education; for c-utrion with unvra   du-
nid-youc population; ten-year arithAttic averagea ending in 1960 and                  nation enrollment may enceed 10 i percort  inc- sone pupila are below o
1970 and fivo-yrar avarge ending In 1975 for moat racent eetimata.above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thou.sad) - Annual deaths per thoueand of nid-                  fanndary achool - total, san  femal  - Conputad as avo; so-odary educa
yoer population; ton-year arithntic aveage.s ending In 1960 And 1970                  tis raquiree at le..at four yeara of approved primary inatruntioo; pro-
andfive-year average endine in 1975 for nost  -aent eatimata.                         ride. gene.ral volati-nal, or teacher training instructions for pupile
Gr.na reproduction rate - AVerage nuber of daughters a woman will bear           ~      usually of 12 t. 17 yeara of age; c-rpenpodence couree are geneally
ic her nromal -produtive period if  h.e anp-ience  praa...r age-                      acldqd.
epecIfic f-ctility ratea; usually fiva-ynar averagse o-ding in 1960,               Vocational enr1olmnt (carccnt of a..c.ndary) - Vocatic..al inetltutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, induatrial, or other progrem   which oportet independently
PFmilypaon- accatora. Annual ithouaagdal - Anneal number of                             or as departments of eaondaryintuto .
acptoro ohlth-coatrol davires ada  saapaae. of matimal fA.ly                   Panil-teahar reata-piaioadenn y-  oa   tdnr   naldi
planing progose.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~primary and secondary la-ai  divided by nueboro oft.. eahere in theb oro
Paniypanig -"gua%ars (percent of marridwmn    Percentage of'                           spending 1av_a
marriod womn of child-bearing age (_44 yaa  who aa  birth-central1                Adult literacy rate (Veminet) - Literate adults (ablr to red end write) As
d-vi-e to all naried wone  in ae        S.g graup.                                    aermocage of tete1 adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
FOOD AND NUOTRITION                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Iode offod proluto    atcpita (1970-100) - Ioden nnbar of per                      PrAaaenaar care (car thousaad populetioo) - Pa....ngor cam. copriar mtotorcr
rapite annual prcdutio ,ofal  food coomoditien                                     eseting le.. than eight pero..na; eacladno onbulaoce, hearne  an...d ailitary
Per capita e1p.ply of cajorice (percent of rotuirnanta) - Computed foe,               vahitlee. ,
enery eqivaln  of net food supplims available in country par ompige                lade rnaan  (per thosad poultico  -All typee of receiver. for radio
per day.  Available eapplies reiprise domeatic production. omporte iee             bracot t     o general pubXlic par thouand of popaletion; exclaim   unliceneed
eaprta, end changes in atock.  Net supplies mtludo animal feed, seeds,              receivera in co.tntriee and in yearn when reginttraic  of radio sta waa In
quan.titiec ...ed in food pro..aeeing, and losaep In distribution.  Em-              ffect; data for recent yearn nay not be conparablo since moat countries
quircnntn wore estimated by PIAD baaed on physiolagical neesa for mar-              abolished litemaing.
ma activ ity and hoeltb  oomtsdeegmg enirovstanl temparatere, body                TV receivers fpear thousand population) - TV rec..iv-r  for brondc...t to genert
weight.,age and sea dietr1botican  of populatio, end alloWIng IC per-                 public per thounand RoPulati-n; ecludec unlicensed TV roce.ivere in coon-
cet for 4nto et bougehald level.                                                      tries and in yeara when ragitraticon of TV eta was in effect.
Per oarlta eucol of PEW .  v anmaor Gail - Pncs6mef cntent of PaNapar                        r iolton(e  hu-nd_pop~ulation  - Show  rho average circula-
capit  oat  uppl.  ffo   a  G.Nesupyof fondmis deined e                           "  nonof"daily gene1ralintArt nepp".dfined ee a pariodical publi-
above.  flequirements fon all cewntrie. established by USDA provide for               cation devoted prinarily to reco.rding ganeral  -ew.  It is considered to
a ninm,maloac  of AS grana of coral peotein per day and 20 grana                      ha "daily" if it appear. at IlAat four timea a week.
of aimal And pulse pyntain, of which I0S.gree ehould ha animal protein.           Cinem  anua attanec  nor capita oar yesr - laeed on rho eAter of tiobts
Tbeco etadarda arm teer nba thsos  of 75 grve  ef total Protein and                   mod during the year, including admiesions to drive-in cineme  end mobile
23 gtans of animal prqteai  mn,n average fax the world, propoaed by                   nunit.
PAO in the Third WnrI4 Paod luarva.
Per cpt     eanmm) f re anma a                   su _m   - Pratein supply of food  fWWPLSrr
dervedOPn lleaa   d Paemign   pedy                                          Trtial labor force (thouanda) - E-.oic-11y active persona, including armd
Child (OaMa 1-4) taivre(mnhea) - Ansual dsatbs per thoue-                               fore" and auemployad but a-luding houaawiws, etodents, aer.  D1sf in-
and im eap sango 1-4 yeara, to childrme to thha age gpomop.                           tien  in verinus countries are not comsrable.
fsae(per cent) - Female labor for-  sa percentage of tqta1 laho  force.
Lanioulture (percent) - Labor forco in farming. forentry, huating and fiahing
Lif cectary  t  irth(rers  -_ Aveage n,bro   or   f lifn                           a  porontage of total labor f--ue
reaining at birthneay fieyea  avaragee ending, in 1960, 1970,                      Induatcy ipercent) -_Labor force in ninig, construction, manfacturing and
And 1*15.                                                                             electircity, water and gan ee pecccntage of total labor foccc..
Infant mortality nets (ear thetamand) - Annual deatha of infents undr wPeticipat ion rate  percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, end
one year of age per thoueeod live birbte.                                              emalelabor forc  a- perc-otag- of their reepe-tive populatione.
Acceco to eafo wetar (percent of monalaniom) - total. eaten. endrua-                    Tbheon are 11.'.  djuotd pcrticipetccr rote. re flec- goe
Number of pecple ~(tntal. urban, -an  urorl) withremabaces  to                        atrcture of tic population. o-d 1og tin trend.
safe eater aupply (incldee treated eurf&ce waters Mr entreated but                 Econonic dependency ratio  - Ratio of population ander 15 and6 AS nd over to
snoonteinaced water such  e that from protected boreholee, aprIngs,                   tbo. labor force in ago group of 15-64 yeara.
And .anitary wells) es percen.tagen of thsir reepentiv- populationa. 
In an urban area a public fountain or etedpoat located nLot more                  INCOME SIISTRIBUTrION
than 210 aetera fron a house may he coneidered As being within ree-                Percentraa  of private incom   (both in c..nh and hind) r..ceived by rftheat 5
..o.able accese of tbat hone.  In rural areas rsasnabl. e  ...cae ould                perosn, richoat 20 psoo-t. poornot 20 perue..t. and poorent 4i per-st
irply that thn b-oeewifc or nbembr  of the houaeb old dc mat have to                  of hooaeholds.
opond adie pr -priat. pact of the dey In fetobhng the fnily'.
weter  ..ad,.                                                                     POVERTY TARICT OGUWPS
Aceeto ancreta diecosl (percent of coulation) - total, urban, And                Estimated a!bso.lata Vwerty iicom  leel(tO  per caIta            rba and rural 
rural - Numbor of people (total, urban, And rural) esinvd by ..ncret.Absout  poety innelvli  ht   ieslee  belo  whic  anna
diopoeal a, p-ccetegsn of.theirI.. rpectivs populations.  tocreta                     nutritiona.lly adequate diet plu.s.wneotial nor-food requir-mate Is not
dirpoa  na  include th e cllatio  an d diepnaal, witb or without                      affiord.blc.
trrt to, of buna   ncreta and w-ata-watr by water-bore oystem                      latimated relativ  povertyicm ee  (us$ per cenptre  -  rb,an n  rural
orteueof pit privien and  imilar inatallations.1 ative pvery   noelvli   hrinc_  lovelaatnoe-hr
yopuatio carphyscian - Ppulation divided by nuber of practicing                  per capita. personal I.. inom  of th  coutry.
physicio-e qualified from a medical achool at univaraity level.tatimated population b.low poverty income levelI (po-cat) - urban and rura  -
PouAtIn r nuo          Pa prson -Ppltion divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban and rura) who  r. eIther 'absolute poor"o
practicing mol  an  femal  graduate nursen, prootical nurees, and                     "relative pcuc" whichever In greater.
aoofotout n.reen.
icoconic an,d Social lto Div.in-c
tocIc AoyIa And Proj acti.r. Departn...t



ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVE0PT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 i US8 1S0
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77 _2/                                                       A BAL RETE OF GROWTH (N. oonstant prices) -/
NSt Bin.      9                                               1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1975/76
GNP at hlarket Prices           86.04      100.0                                                  3.9                 3.8                  2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       16.62       19.3
Gross National Saving           18.18       21.1
Current Account Balance          1.56        1.8
Resource Gap                     0.95        1.1
OLITPtT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTMTY IN 1975/76
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Fore                V.A. Per Worker
IJSS Bln.                             Iil.                                                       of National Average
Agrioulture                     30.2               43                179.0       69               169          63
Industry                        16.7               24                 33.9      13                494         193
Services                        23.4               33                 48.0       18               488         133
Total/average                   70.3              100                261        100               277         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Governmnt /                                               Central Government
(Rs. Bin)               off GIP                                 (Rs. Blnof GP
1976/77       1976/77    1974/75-1976/77                        1976/77        1976/77    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                  147.46         19.1           17.9                                83.78         10.9          10.4
Current Expenditures              140.18         18.2           16.2                                84.25         10.9           9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             7.28          0.9            1.7                               - 0.47           -            0.8
Capital Expenditures  i/           59.05          7.6            7.1                               40.39           5.2           5.0
External Assistance (net)          11.21          1.5            1.7                                11.21          1.5            1.7
MOME  CRIT AND PRICES            1970/71  S19         R  1           1            1975/76     1976/77      September 1976     September 1977
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of Period)
Money and quasi Money             105.7       142.2       169.0       186.9        215.0       262.6           238.2             284.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)  56.9        82.5        92.9       102.6        109.1       117.3           112.7             130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector      56.7        76.0        90.1       109.5        127.5       161.0           144.0             170.0
(Peroentage or Index Numbers)                           Jantua  1977        January 1970
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  24.3        27.3        26.4         25.5        27.6        31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                100.0       116.2       139.7       174.9       173.0        176.6           178.8             183.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index               7.7        10.0        20.2        25.2        -1.1          2.1             7 5               2 5
Bank Credit to Publio Sector (net)  8.6        19.6        12.6        10.4          6.3         7.5             4.7 XI           15.8 S1
Bank Credit to Private Sector      17.3        18.0        18.5        21.5         16.4        26.3            24.9J             11.9 A
a  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/ Quick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
3/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
1/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page -,
BLLAUCE OF PAD3                        1974/75 i    Z7L6            127           1977/7B j/                        ]ICIIUDIS2 I!S1                   (175   1276/77)
Exports of Goode                         4,174        4,665          5,760         6,400                             Endring Goode              515           1t
Imports of Goods                        -5,665       _6,084        ..5950         -6,600                             Suar                       379             8
Trade Balaco                            -1,491       -1,419         -  190         - 200                             Tea                        296            6
Ws  (net)                                  21t           310           465            500                            Jute  nufasturee           294             6
Leather and leather
REsouroe Gac                            -1,278       -1,109            215           300                                     Produots           268             5
Clothing                   257            5
Interest Paymnts (net)                  -  198       -  216         -  135         -  130                            Irn Ore                    258             5
Other Faotor Payments (not)                 -             -             -                                            Cotti  Textiles            223             5
Net Transf       /                         257           47           730          1,000              Tot 
J/  25          470                                                        ~~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total-,a  0
Ralano. on Current Aoouat               -1,217       -  855            8I0          1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                         zxTzMAL  me  XiMOS 31I 1977
USS Rilion
Disbursnts                           1,761        2,341         1,953          1,840
Amortization                          -515         -331          -568         -  630                             Outanding and Disbureed                  13.6
330         Undistursed                              ~~~~~~~~~~~3.2
Transactions with DF                       522           242         -336          -  330                            Ottsuiginluding Undisbursed              16re8
All Other Item                            -589         -403          -292              23MTstvk  in                                         Ondi97urse       14.8
Increae in Reserves ()                      38         -794        -1,575          -2,0?3
Gross Reserves (end year)                1,378         2,172        3,747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year)  k/                758         1,365        3,276           5,670                            IBRDAI1l  LElNG. Deceber 5t  1977  (US$ MIn.)
Fuel and Related Material                                                                                                                              IBRD         IDA
Imports                                  1,451        1,417         1,580        1,800                               Outstanding end Disbursed        4s9.0      3,560.5
OJndisbureed                     674.9      1,257.0
of whioht Petroleum                   1,451        1,417         1,58O        1,800                               Outstanding, including
ExportS                                                  43e           37         n.-.                                    Undisbureed               1,163.9      4,817.5
of which, Petroleum                      17           22            21         n.a.
RATE OF EXCRAIGE
Prior to mid-Desoember 197t         USS1.00 = Re 7.5                                                                 After end June 1972          Pleating Rate
R. 1.00 = US1O.153333                                                            Spot Rate January 31, 1972
Yid-Doeember 1971 to           ,   USS1.00 - Rs 7.27927                                                                        approx. Us1.00 = RU 8.065
end June 1972                    Re 1.00 = U380.137376                                                                      approx. Rs 1.00 =1USSO.t24
Es/ Etimated.
./ Figures given cover all investment incom  (net).  Major payments are interet on foreige loans  and
charges paid to DW, and major receipt is interest earned cm foreign assets,
A/ Figures given include workers' remitt"anes but exclude official grant assistance, which is inluded
within offioial aid dibursemnts.
t/ Excludes net use of IW credit.
j/ Amortization and interest payments om foreign loans as a percentage of eerch5Rdi8e eXPoxta.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANEt GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of Sept. 30,1978)
US$ Million-/
Loan or                                                                                        (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No,      Year       Borrower                 Purpose                            Bank        IDA       Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                            1,100.63
53 Credits fully disbursed                                                                       2,884.6
267-IN           1971       India         Wheat Storage                                 --           5.0         2.99
294-IN           1972       India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                    --          14.0         6.02
312-IN          1972        India         Population                                    --          21.2         4.52
342-IN          1972        India         Education                                     __          12.0         8.39
356-IN          1972        India         IDBI                                          --          25.0         9.78
377-IN          1973        India         Power Transmission III                        --          85.0         0.46
378-IN           1973       India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                   --           8.0         6.73
902-IN           1973       ICICI         Industry DFC X                                64.80       --           2.84
390-IN           1973       India         Bombay Water Supply                           --          55.0        18.09
427-IN           1973       India         Calcutta Urban Development                    --          35.0         6.71
440-IN           1973       India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                     --          32.0        13.31
456-IN           1974       India         HP Apple Processing 6 Marketing               --          13.0         8.80
481-IN           1974       India         Trombay IV                                    --          50.0         9.58
1011-IN           1974       India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                       52.0        --          31.93
482-IN           1974       India         Karnataka Dairy                               --          30.0        23.64
502-IN          1974        India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                           --          83.0        46.35
520-IN          1974        India         Sindri Fertilizer                             --          91.0         9.82
521-LN          1974        India         Rajasthan Dairy                               --          27.7        24.84
522-IN          1974        India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                          --          16.4        13.14
526-IN           1975       India         Drought Prone Areas                           --          35.0        20.32
1079-IN           1975       IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                             109.0        --          46.56
1097-IN           1975       ICICI         Industry DFC XI                              100.0        __          17.92
532-IN          1975        India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                   --          45.0        19.04
541-IN           1975       India         West Bengal Agricultural Development          --          34.0        22.68
562-IN           1975       India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                  --          24.0        14.19
572-IN           1975       India         Rural Electrification                         --          57.0        42.15
582-IN           1975       India         Railways XIII                                 --         110.0         0.36
585-IN          1975        India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                    --          40.0        33.67
598-IN           1975       India         Fertilizer Industry                           --         105.0        81.99
604-TN           1976       India         Power Transmission IV                         --         150.0       123.81
609-IN           1976       India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                  --           4.0         3.55
610-IN           1976       India         Integrated Cotton Development                 --          18.0        17.63
1251-IN(TW)       1976       India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                    145.0        --         135.77
1260-IN           1976       India         IDBI II                                       40.0        --          34.42
1273-IN           1976       India         National Seed                                 25.0        -           24.92
1313-IN           1976       India         Telecommunications VI                         80.0        --          28.09
1335-IN           1976       BMRDA         Bombay Urban Transport                        25.0        --          17.70
680-IN          1977        India         Kerala Agricultural Development               --          30.0        29.95
682-IN          1977        India         Orissa Agricultural Development               --          20.0        19.51
685-IN          1977        India         Singrauli Thermal Power                       --         150.0       136.62
687-IN          1977        India         Madras Urban Development                      --          24.0        21.56
695-IN           1977       India         Gujarat Fisheries                             --           4.0         4.00
1394-IN(TW)      1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                             14.0        --          14.00
690-IN           1977.      India         West Bengal Agricultural Development          --          12.0        12.00
712-IN           1977       India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development    --             10.0        10.00
715-IN           1977       India         Second ARDC Credit                            --         200.0       136.09
720-IN           1977       India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                     --          23.0        22.28
728-IN          1977        India         Assan Agricultural Development                --           8.0         7.79
1473-IN           1977       India         Bombay High Offshore Development             150.0        --          87.13
736-IN          1977        India         Maharashtra Irrigation                        --          70.0        70.00
737-IN          1977        India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension              --          13.0        13.00
740-IN          1977        India         Orissa Irrigation                             --          58.0        57.50
1475-IN           1977       ICICI         Industry DFC XII                              80.0        --          72.27
747-IN           1978       India         Second Foodgrain Storage                      --         107.0       105.62
756-IN           1978       India         Second Calcutta Urban Development             --          87.0        79.53
761-IN           1978       India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research    --              8.0         8.00
1511-IN           1978       India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                      25.0        --          25.00
1549-IN*          1978       TEC           Third Trombay Thermal Power                  105.0        --         105.0
788-IN*         1978        India         Karnataka Irrigation                          --         126.0       126.0
793-lN*          1978       India         Korba Thermal Power                           --         200.0       200.0
806-IN*          1978       India         Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                    --          14.0        14.0
808-IN          1978       India         Gujarat Irrigation                            --          85.0        85.0
815-IN*          1978       India         Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                       --         17.5        17.5
816-IN*          1978       India         Second National Seed                          --          16.0        16.0
1592-IN           1978       India         Telecommunications VII                       120.0        --         120.0
824-IN*          1978       India         National Dairy                                 --        150.0       150.0
842-IN*          1978       India          Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage         --        196.0       196.0
843-IN*          1978       India         Haryana Irrigation                                       111.00      111.00
844-IN*          1978        India        Railway Modernization and Maintenace                     190.00      190.00
848-IN*          1978        India        Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage                           38.00      38.00
Total                                                                2,235.43   6,077.40
892.18      41.44
of which has been repaid                                          1,343.25   6,035.96
Total now outstanding
Amount Sold                              133.31
of which has been repaid               111.47                        21.84
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                      1,321.41   6,035.96
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                        538.55   1,652.01
* Not yet effective.
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                          November 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                                   Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                        Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8        1.0       12.8
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0        0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                               4.0        1.2        5.2
TOTAL                               53.6       10.0       63.6
Less:  Sold                                  6.0        1.6       7.6
Repaid                              14.7         -        14.7
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            26.7        7.7       34.4
Undisbursed                          6.5        0.9        7.4



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,191 million
as of September 30, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$5.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpset investments in the
Tirhut Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower
than estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
compared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to
March 1980 and the project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets
have now been achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed well in
advance of the closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of September 30, 1978, disbursements amounted to
about US$63.9 million, which is 32% of total disbursements, slightly below
appraisal targets. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Appraisal for a third line of credit is presently in the field,
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which has now begun disbursing.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 806    Jammur-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313-IN is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements reached
US$51.9 million as of September 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date: November 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a conse-
quence it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year.
However, an amount of US$84.5 million had been disbursed by the end of
September 1978 and the balance should be disbursed before the revised Closing
Date. Under Credit 604-IN, contracts aggregating about US$50 million had
been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements as of September 30, 1978 were
US$26.2 million. This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million
to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but
US$4 million of this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; (Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for 50,
and loans approved for 47 markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and
was in progress for 23 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market
yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and improved
farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving.
As of September 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construction was
underway for 36 of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are
nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be
completed by their respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year. Disbursements as of September 30, 1978 were 79% of
the full credit amount.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving edu-
cational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are sup-
porting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
us$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$15.2 million
by the end of September 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$5.6 million by the end of
September. Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and
public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist
IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening
the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 842    2nd Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
January 25, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory. The second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project has
just been signed.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation. Disbursements as of the end of September 1978
stood at US$6.3 million or 16% of the credit amount.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19, 1978;
Effective Date (expected): December 27, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$26.0 million on September 30, 1978.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiencv of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities ard village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. In particular, the Assam project is pro-
gressing very well with coverage of farmers expanding ahead of schedule
and noticeable improvements in the quality of training of village eKtension
workers. The projects' components include provision of additional staff,
training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory facilities, equipiment and
transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for stirengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 582 was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project. The project was fully dis-
bursed on October 24, 1978.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was signed July 17, 1978.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Progress on Gujarat Fisheries project is good. All project imple-
mentation units appear to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is
progressing as anticipated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$62.9 million on September 30, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project.
About one year.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project.
The National Cooperative Development Corporation
(NCDC) in association with State Governments of
Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project.
October/November 1977.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission.
May 1978.
(e)  Date of Completion of negotiations.
November 1978.
(f)  Planned Date of effectiveness.
March 31, 1979.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions.
(a) Building designs and construction standards would
be satisfactory to the Association (para 54).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) Consultants qualifications and experience for
assisting O&M Departments of NCDC and SCB to
be satisfactory to IDA (para 55).
(c)  Subproject appraisal criteria to be applied by
SCB in respect of godown loans to be as agreed
between NCDC and Association (para 60).
(d) NCDC to submit progress reports and annual work
programs to IDA on a regular basis (para 62).



IBRD 13776
J'N..  U.S S. R.   .-9                        1.                      80                                              so                               AUGUST 1978
US S R.                                                                                     INDIA
."                                   t\ NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT
Protect CORPORATION PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN                i                             L,ooc.CowI,Project States and Implementing Organizations
g-   B   Approulmdte Llne of Control ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ ~ i                 I   on
9   t .   SS,,otgto    rPROJECT STATES
:0 JAMMU and KASHMIR                                                     NCDC's REGIONAL/ZONAL OFFICES
A    HEADQUARTERS OF COOPERATIVE MARKETING FEDERATIONS
0   HEADQUARTERS OF STATE COOPERATIVE BANKS
HIMACHALL                                                s   STATE CAPITALS
PRADESH                                                 G   NATIONAL CAPITAL
CA1 ,                                STATE BOUNDARIES
Ch.rndigoOh                                              -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        300
3PUNJAB
PAKISTA N                         j        'YA                                  . .                                                    JB
.UT 'TAR  PRADESHr             <   I               y sKo
RAJASTHAN               r                                                     ,       >             v           M  ,/r  AGAI.AND
'-,M   HAA ~MANIPUR
BIHAR                 A    DE
WEST\        <PU          MZO
5r   G.ndhi-apar.  >             s8hwaW                            <         t>    BENGAL 
<   v *D   * *D5SH          ,_    _   s : 2 ;   =    X N  ~B U R M A
ir   MAHARASHTRA    r              V        f  ORISSA   ,B                                                        M
. /    sHyd-Whda                                 B
\    <         27 ~ANDHRA               jIhz 
Ps<> f5 ~~PRADESH 
%,ARNATAKA  
Arabi;an    Sea                \&                                                                                                     gANDAMAN
\ # s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANT)
-                     \  <    TAM~~~~~IL NADU 
.   \    21  Bay    of   gerngol                  NITCOBAR    10
ISLANTS
WThis   IIn 0 800080                                                                                                                              0
t4<wnafuw1boewdor                >               (tf  5~~~~~RI LANK 
888 OOftOOWi tt t 088.ro0r
ttOoat tOoaat at, tOrn''f                                                                       
ptOth.0   p0 00ODth4t
.trot Y  aJ  ogoaat   .                                                                                    ,s      3 9 9
;   . \90 180    2,B 33       10
780                                   80~~~~~~~                           KiIoa,t88888~~~~~~~ M 21  90040   ,1
TI~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2 tg    TgBr



