Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FPY
Report No. 2198-IN
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 4, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture D Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1                 =   Rs 8.60
Rs 1                 =   US$0.116
Rs 1 million (M)    =   US$116,279
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units are used.
1 kilogram (kg)                   =      2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                =      1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
1 quintal                                100 kg
-  1 meter (m)                        =      1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                         0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         2                 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km )          =      0.386 square miles
INDIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
Kharif Season      - Monsoon Season
(May to October)
Rabi Season        - Dry Season
(November to April)
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal, June 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
APC     -        Agricultural Production Commissioner
ARDC    -        Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAP     -        Cover and Plinth (bagged grain placed on brick plinth
and covered with polyethelyne sheets)
CWC     -        Central Warehousing Corporation
DCB     -        District Central Cooperative Banks
FCI     -        Food Corporation of India
GOH     -        Government of Haryana
GOI     -        Government of India
GOO     -        Government of Orissa
GOS     -        State Governments
GOUP    -        Government of Uttar Pradesh
HAFED   -        Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation
IFFCO   -        Indian Farmers' Fertilizer Cooperative Limited
MDI     -        Management Development Institute
NCDC    -        National Cooperative Development Corporation
OSCMF   -        Orissa State Corporation Marketing Federation
PCC     -        Project Coordination Committee
PCF     -        Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Marketing Federation
PCS     -        Primary Cooperative Societies (also known as Mini Banks,
PACS and LAMPS)
RBI     -        Reserve Bank of India
RCMS    -        Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies
RCS     -        Registrar of Cooperative Societies
SCB     -        State Cooperative Banks
SLDB    -        State Land Development Bank (generic term for all land
banks)
SWC     -        State Warehousing Corporation
TDCC    -        Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................................                    1
II.    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND COOPERATIVES  ..................                    1
Agriculture  ......................................                  1
The Cooperatives  .................................                  2
III.    PROJECT INSTITUTIONS  ..................................                    4
National Cooperative Development
Corporation (NCDC)  .......             ......................    4
State Cooperative Banks (SCB)  ....................                  6
Cooperative Marketing Federations  ....              ............    10
Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS)  ....              ..........    11
Training  .........................................                 11
IV. THE PROJECT .13
Project Objectives and Rationale  ....              .............   13
Project Description  ..............................                 14
*                            Cost Estimates  ...................................                 16
Project Financing  ................................                 18
Procurement  ......................................                 19
Disbursements  ....................................                 19
V.    ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND LENDING OPERATIONS  .......                  20
General  ..........................................                20
Cooperative Societies (RCMS and PCS)  ....              .........    20
Cooperative Federations and TDCC  ....              .............  21
State Cooperative Banks  ..........................    21
NCDC's Role  ................                                      21
Subproject Appraisal and Monitoring  ....             ..........    23
Project Evaluation ...............................                 24
Accounts and Audit  ...............................                25
Lending Terms  ....................................                25
VI.    GODOWN USAGE AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ....................                   28
Incremental Godown Capacity  ......................                28
Effect of Godown Costs and Commodity Prices  ......                28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. S. Thillarajah, T. Turtiainen (IDA), R. Hoover, and
H. Kramer (Consultants).



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
Financial Projections  ............................                 29
Cash Flow   .......................................                  31
Cost Recovery ....................................                   31
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ............................                    31
Principal Benefits  ...............................                  31
Economic Rate of Return ..........................                   31
Employment Effects  ...............................                  33
Other Benefits  ...................................                  34
Project Beneficiaries  ............................                  34
Project Risks  ....................................                  34
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                 ............   35
ANNEXES
1.    Project Tables and Charts
2.   Model Bylaws of PCS and Federations
3.    Disbursement Schedule
4.    Subproject Outline and Criteria
5.    Project Evaluation and Monitoring
6.    Documents and Data Available  in the Project File
MAP (IBRD 13776)



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA Credit of US$30
million (M) to help the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
finance a rural storage project in the States of Haryana, Orissa and Uttar
Pradesh. GOI attaches high priority to agriculture and rural development
and relies heavily on the cooperative sector to achieve development and a
more equitable distribution of the growth benefits. NCDC, as the national
institution established by GOI specifically to promote, develop and finance
cooperative agricultural enterprises, is a natural choice for giving effect
to this policy.
1.02      This project was prepared by NCDC in association with State govern-
ments (GOS) of Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. Since NCDC had hitherto
not been used by the World Bank Group as an onlending channel, a Bank Eval-
uation Mission visited India in October/November 1976 to review its organiza-
*      tion, policies, procedures and performance.  The mission concluded that NCDC
would be a suitable onlending channel subject to implementation of various
recommendations contained in its Evaluation Report dated April 8, 1977.
NCDC accordingly engaged the services of the Management Development Institute
of India (MDI) to review its organization, management and procedures. Since
March 1, 1978 MDI's recommendations and others approved by NCDC's Board are
being implemented (5.08 and 5.09).
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
comprising S. Thillairajah, T. Turtiainen (IDA), R. Hoover and H. Kramer
(Consultants) which visited India in May/June 1978. The mission was assisted
by Mr. Paul Dax (IDA).
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND COOPERATIVES
Agriculture
2.01      Agriculture is the most important sector and mainstay of India's
economy. It provides 71% of direct labor employment, accounting for 45% of
GNP and 37% of export earnings. During the last decade, GOI's development
plans have emphasized agriculture. However, although agricultural production
in recent years has reached record levels, it has not grown more than an
average of 3% per annum over the last decade--just above population growth.
If the economy as a whole is to grow much faster, if unemployment is to be



reduced and if reasonable equity in income distribution is to be achieved,
the agricultural sector has to grow much faster. Thus, GOI in its draft
Sixth Five-Year Plan, more than in its Fifth Five-Year Plan, has placed high
priority in agricultural sector. GOI recognizes that faster agricultural
growth is necessary not only to increase output but to increase employment
as well. GOI's policies aim at increasing the rate of irrigation development
and making more readily available to farmers a complete package of agricul-
tural inputs, including credit, appropriately supported by improved extension
services and research. A key element in this strategy is the development of
the village cooperative society which in much of rural India is the only
institution situated at the village level to provide credit and other inputs
and post harvest facilities to help farmers progress toward higher technology
in agriculture.
The Cooperatives
2.02      The cooperative movement in India started in 1906 with the organiza-
tion of farmers' credit societies. After independence in 1947, GOI has made
a major and continuing effort to develop cooperatives as a means of providing
both rural and urban services. Cooperatives are organized on a State-by-State
basis. Through various promotion programs and active support from Central and
State governments, the cooperative movement has evolved into a large and
economically important institution. While the performance of cooperatives
has been uneven, the system as a whole has reached a stage of development
where the movement can be used as an effective tool for economic and social
development.  There are about 310,000 cooperative societies with a membership
of more than 80 million families.
2.03      In general, the cooperative infrastructure is organized under a
three-tier system. In the villages, the Primary Cooperative Society (PCS),
using deposits from members and institutional borrowings, provides short and
medium-term credit; distributes farm inputs and consumer goods; and provides
primary marketing services. PCS in each district are members in a District
Central Cooperative Bank (DCB) that provides funds for credit, and also in
a Regional Cooperative Marketing Society (RCMS) located at the Block head-
quarters and rural markets. RCMS provides wholesale marketing services to
PCS and primary marketing services directly to its other members. Within each
State, DCB are shareholders in the State Cooperative Bank (SCB) and depend on
it for refinance and other banking services. Wholesale marketing services
required by RCMS are provided by the State Cooperative Marketing Federation.
Procurement, storage and distribution of fertilizers, foodgrains and consumer
goods make up most of the business volume of the RCMS and Federations.
2.04      Although the cooperatives function in the agricultural, industrial
and commercial sector, their greatest impact is in the agricultural sector,
particularly in providing short-term credit and farm inputs. The gross value
of agricultural input and commodity marketing by the cooperatives in 1976/77
is estimated to be well in excess of Rs 20 billion (US$2.4 billion). Short
and medium-term credit granted and outstanding is estimated to be in excess
of Rs 25 billion (US$3 billion). The long-term cooperative credit structure
serving the farmers comprises State Land Development (or Mortgage) Banks
(SLDB) which function through branches or affiliated Primary Land Development



- 3 -
*      Banks (PLDB).  They provide loans for periods ranging from five to fifteen
years for agricultural development, mostly refinanced by the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC).
2.05      The performance of the cooperatives has been variable from State
to State and from year to year--being relatively poor in the lesser developed
States in the northern and eastern regions (e.g. Himachal Pradesh, Assam,
Orissa) and during years of poor harvests. Weakest links in the chain have
been the primary levels--both credit societies and marketing societies. In
the early seventies, many PCS were small in members, financial resources and
volume of business and consequently unable to pay for competent and full-time
management. Concern of governments over poor performance by cooperatives led
to several policy changes, mostly as a result of studies made by Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) in collaboration with GOS. RBI prepared special studies and
plans for most States for amalgamating small primary cooperative societies
to make them large enough to be viable. The late seventies thus witnessed a
deliberate decrease in the number of primary societies--PCS reduced from about
175,000 in 1973 to 125,000 in 1977. Along with these mergers, GOI's aim has
been also to change the character of the primary societies from mere credit or
specialized institutions into multipurpose cooperatives.
Cooperative Institutions
2.06      The cooperative movement in India receives the active support, par-
ticipation and influence of the Central and State governments both directly
and through national and state institutions established by GOI and GOS.  The
institutions most concerned with the proposed project are NCDC, SCB, Coopera-
tive Federations, PCS and State Registrars of Cooperative Societies (RCS)
(3.01 through 3.33). Others of major significance are:
-    National Cooperative Union of India (NCUI) established in
1929 for promotion, research, education, training, national
and international liaison, public relations, and dissemina-
tion of information.
-    National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) set up by GOI in 1965
to provide technical, engineering, research, training advi-
sory and support services for development of India's dairy
industry. NDDB, in conjunction with its financial affiliate
Indian Dairy Corporation (ID.C), concentrates on extending
finance and services to cooperative dairy development
projects. 1/
-    National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India
(NAFED) established in 1958 as an apex national body of the
several State Marketing Federations to assist in marketing of
farm produce, distribution of consumer goods, and supply
of farm machinery and inputs.
1/   NDDB and IDC are implementing agencies for IDA's National Dairy (824-IN),
Madhya Pradesh Dairy (522-IN), Karnataka Dairy (482-IN) and Rajasthan
Dairy (521-IN) Projects.



-4
Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd (IFFCO) set up
in 1968 to undertake manufacture and marketing of fertilizer.
National Federations of State Land Development Banks (SLDB)
and State Cooperative Banks (SCB) which coordinate the
short-, medium- and long-term credit activities in the
cooperative sector.
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
established in 1963 to enlarge term credit available for
agricultural investments and to improve lending quality
within agriculture.
III. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
3.01      The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) is an all-
India public institution established by GOI under the National Cooperative
Development Act of 1962 to plan, promote, develop and finance agricultural
and agro-based industrial cooperative enterprises. NCDC participates in
development schemes of cooperatives engaged in production, processing,
storage, marketing, export and import of agricultural inputs and output. Under
the Act (as amended up to 1974), NCDC is authorized to advance loans, provide
grants and subsidies, and participate in the share capital of cooperative
enterprises either directly or through GOS and SCB. Within these broad limits
of authority, NCDC has engaged in a variety of special activities including
financial assistance for specific schemes both of the Central government and
those sponsored by NCDC. Examples are storage, sugar factories, spinning mills,
stocking and distribution of fertilizers, and distribution of consumer goods in
rural areas. It has also provided technical and financial assistance for such
diverse activities as pre-investment surveys, initiating marketing studies,
conducting feasibility studies, establishing research laboratories, under-
writing training costs, strengthening management, and supplementing the
share capital of cooperatives.
3.02      NCDC is governed by a General Council of 51 members and a Board
of Management of 12 members. The Council is responsible for the NCDC's policy
whereas general management is vested in the Board. The Managing Director
who is also a member of the Board is the chief executive. He is supported
by a secretary, a financial advisor and six directors each in charge of
marketing, processing, fertilizer input storage, rural consumer goods, tex-
tiles and research and evaluation departments. NCDC has a staff of about
350 including more than 100 executives specialized in cooperative and admin-
istrative management and technical aspects of agri-business. NCDC has eight
Regional Offices. Chart 1 in Annex 1 shows NCDC's present organization
structure.



*      NCDC's Sources of Funds and Lending Operations
3.03      NCDC Act does not provide for share capital.  The sources of NCDC's
funds are grants from GOI, borrowing from the market and GOI and retained
earnings. GOI has made funds available to NCDC in the form of annual budget
allocations. NCDC is also authorized to borrow from the market by sale of
bonds and debentures. NCDC resorted to market borrowings for the first
time in 1974/75 when it raised Rs 27.5 M. This was followed by further
issues of Rs 27.5 M, Rs 55 M and Rs 110 M in the succeeding years bringing
the total bonds now outstanding to Rs 220 M. Retained earnings are credited
to a capital account styled NCDC Fund Account which had a cumulative balance
of Rs 455 M on March 31, 1978. Borrowings from GOI on this date, amounted
to Rs 767 M (see Comparative Balance Sheets summarized in Annex 1, Table 1).
Sources and application of funds are summarized in Annex 1, Table 2.
3.04      NCDC channels loans and subsidies to client cooperatives mostly
through the respective GOS (almost 90%), and sometimes through the SCB in
the State. It also lends directly to apex federations and cooperatives with
interstate business operations (details in Annex 1, Table 3). NCDC's loan
participation in individual investments has ranged from 50% to 75% of total
costs, the balance being met by the borrowing cooperatives, or by GOS as loans
and share capital or by SCB with loans.
3.05      Since its inception up to April 1978, NCDC has provided Rs 2,325 M
(US$270 M) for various cooperative development schemes; Rs 2,025 M (US$235 M)
*      as loans, about Rs 269 M (US$31 M) as grants and subsidies and Rs 33 M
(US$3.8 M) as direct participation in share capital.  Financial assistance
provided by NCDC falls into two categories--Centrally (GOI) Sponsored Schemes
and NCDC Sponsored Schemes. The former includes loans for margin money for
fertilizer distribution, special programs for underdeveloped states or union
territories and for investments in sugar factories, spinning mills and agri-
cultural chemical factories. NCDC schemes encompass an extensive range
including storage, distribution, marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs
and consumer goods. NCDC also finances from its own funds, as grants, num-
erous development and promotional activities including training programs,
market surveys and feasibility studies. Centrally Sponsored Schemes accounted
for 55% of the last five years disbursements, the remaining 45% NCDC Schemes
(Annex 1, Table 4).
3.06      Loans outstanding at April 1, 1978, totaled Rs 1,330 (US$155 M).
About 90% of this was owed by GOS, 8% by SCB and 1% by other cooperatives,
roughly the same as the disbursement pattern. All loans to SCB and State
Cooperative Federations are guaranteed by the States concerned. NCDC's loan
recovery record has been excellent. Loan repayment by borrowers 1/ are
recycled by further lending. The annual cash inflow from loan repayments
between 1978/79 and 1983/84 is expected to average Rs 296 M 2/ (Annex 1,
Table 5).
1/   After meeting repayment obligations to GOI on NCDC's own borrowing.
*      2/   Excluding transactions related to proposed Project.



3.07      Overdue loans are insignificant.  Four loans totaling Rs 2.5 M
(including accrued interest) were overdue as of March 31, 1978. One of these
was overdue less than one month, another less than five months, and a third
for one year; progress was being made in collection of two of these at the
time of appraisal. Only one loan for Rs 0.4 M was considered chronic, having
fallen due in November 1976. There is no specifically designated reserve for
bad debts. It is considered to be an unspecified component of the NCDC Fund.
Operating Results
3.08      NCDC has a favorable record of excess income over expenditure.  It
has increased in absolute terms over each of the past four years, and substan-
tially in the past two years. Excess income over expenditure at the close of
1977/78 was equivalent to 35.7% of gross income for the year although this
ratio had declined slightly from higher levels reached in preceding years.
A comparative statement of NCDC's Income and Expenditure is shown in Annex 1,
Table 6.
Financial Position
3.09      NCDC has had a steady financial growth.  Almost all of its loans
have been given to or been guaranteed by GOS. Major liabilities are Rs 766 M
owed to GOI and Rs 220 M in market borrowings. Debt equity ratio is 2:1.
NCDC is a financially viable institution and should be in a position to
improve its financing and operations with its development programs planned
for the Five Year Plan period 1978-83.
NCDC as an Additional On-lending Channel for Bank Group Funds
3.10      The Bank Group presently uses ARDC as the principal channel for
distributing agricultural credit through Cooperative Land Development Banks
and Commercial Banks. The thrust of development activities financed through
these institutions has been to increase agricultural production. Parallel
emphasis is needed in establishing the infrastructure to facilitate handling
of such increased production. New investments should also enable the indi-
vidual producer and the small entrepreneur to receive his proper share of such
enhanced product value.
3.11      GOI and GOS are, therefore, keen to assist cooperatives to enter
into, or extend their existing activities in storage, processing and marketing.
Promoting or establishing cooperative institutions is not a function specially
assigned to ARDC or other institutions used by IBRD. Neither does any of these
institutions possess the specialized experience or skilled staff to enable it
to undertake the task. NCDC has such experience and staff and following imple-
mentation of the recommendations of the Bank Evaluation Mission and the MDI
study (1.02), it will be equipped to support the cooperative sector, partic-
ularly for agro-industrial activities.
State Cooperative Banks (SCB)
3.12      There are 26 SCB in India.  A SCB is essentially a banker for
District Central Cooperative Banks (DCB) and apex cooperatives (federations)              S



*       in the State.  Membership in SCB is open to these DCB, other cooperatives and
to the State government concerned. SCB's functions include:
-    financing DCB and other cooperative institutions;
-    carrying on the general business of banking;
-    acting as a balancing center for surplus funds in the
state;
-    arranging supervision and inspection of DCB;
-    providing training facilities; and
-    promoting principles of cooperation.
3.13      SCB face competition from commercial banks in mobilization of funds.
But they are virtually without institutional competition in servicing the
short-term credit requirements of typical small cooperative enterprises and
the small scale farmer sector.
SCB Management and Organization in Project States
3.14      The General Body of SCB members or their designated representatives
is technically responsible for overall policy-making. This Body meets as
often as necessary but at least once each year following the annual audit.
In practice, policy making takes place at the second level which is the Board
of Directors (or Management Committee as in Orissa). The Board, comprising as
many as 20 Directors, includes the RCS, DCB representatives and GOS nominees.
The function of the Board of Directors which meets at least quarterly include:
-    defining financial policies, e.g., loan maturity periods,
security, action on arrears and other lending terms and
conditions;
-    defining staff strength, conditions of employment and
service rules;
-    raising of funds, capital investments, and investment of
surplus funds; and
-    setting deposit and business terms.
The Board may also designate special purpose committees to deal with specific
matters and policy issues.
3.15      SCB's Managing Director, the chief executive, is appointed by the
Board of Directors with approval of RCS. All those currently serving in the
SCB of the three Project States are government administrative officers on
deputation from GOS. They are competent and experienced and are keenly aware
of good credit practices necessary to make and collect loans and of their
responsibility to operate on sound banking principles. In these three States,



- 8 -
SCB senior management staff are generally long on experience with the SCB,
backed by a University degree.
3.16      Annex 1, Chart 3 shows the organization structure of the Haryana
SCB which could be considered typical, although variations exist among the
three SCB in Project States. GOS and SCB recognize the need for improvements
in organization, staffing and procedures. An RBI study team which reviewed
the organizational structure of SCB in Uttar Pradesh has made recommendations
for an improved structure which SCB in Haryana and Orissa have also decided
to follow. (The main suggestions include establishment of five divisions
for Administrations, Accounts, Inspection, Operations, and Planning and Devel-
opment. A Training Division would be formed when training of PCS secretaries
and DCB staff would have expanded sufficiently. Management efficiency would
be improved by establishing a new General Manager's post and assigning more
senior staff to assist the branch offices). Additionally, all three SCB have
arranged to strengthen their Special Loan Departments with staff capable of
carrying out project appraisal and monitoring work and to set up an Organi-
zation and Methods Unit (5.06).
SCB Staffing and Training
3.17      The three Project SCB have a total staff strength of about 635 of
which 100 could be classified as senior executives, 250 as junior executives
or assistant level officers and the remaining 285 as subordinate/support staff.
SCB also exert a great influence in the recruitment and training of the staff
under a Common Cadre Schemes.  The Schemes employ all PCS managers and senior
staff of DCS under a separate administration and post them where they best
suit. The expenses of PCS Cadre are mainly recovered from the benefitting PSC,
based on a specified standard scale (related to credit/sales turnover) and
deficits are met by the DCB and SCB. This method of staffing has resulted
in higher caliber and more independent management in the largest and weakest
tier of the cooperative structure. This scheme was initiated to regulate
service conditions, appointments, supervision, training and control of
managers of the PCS.
SCB's Lending Operations
3.18      SCB lends to DCB and other cooperative institutions.  In the Project
States less than half is directly for agricultural credit through DCB (Annex 1,
Table 7). Loans are predominately short-term. The proportion of medium-term
loans varies from less than 5% of disbursements in Haryana to over 20% in
Orissa. Long-term lending volume is very limited. Loan disbursements in
recent years have been expanding at an annual rate of over 30% in total for
the three Project SCB. Amounts disbursed in 1976/77 reached Rs 4,793 M.
Total loans outstanding at end of that year amounted to about Rs 1,693 M
(Annex 1, Table 8). It is estimated that over one-fourth is in medium-term
loans.
3.19      Refinancing of DCB for their short-term lending to PCS is based on
a system of setting maximum credit limits first for each farmer member and
subsequently consolidating at the various tiers.  Loans for seasonal inputs



- 9 -
*       in cash and in kind are then made against this credit limit.  Medium-term loan
purposes vary somewhat by area. They include purposes such as milch cows,
bullocks, minor irrigation, small buildings, implements, rice mills, pulse
plants, bakeries, vegetable oil plants, handlooms, sugar mills, and cold
storage.
SCB Loan Recovery Record
3.20      Overdue loans have been kept within a narrow range (1 to 5%) and
have shown improvement over recent years when compared with demand or out-
standings. Some 22% of the overdues are considered as bad and doubtful debts.
Provisions made are more than adequate to cover this amount. A summary total
on June 30, 1977 for the three project SCBs is as follows:
Loans overdue                             Rs 39.5 M
Overdue as % of demand                        1.8%
Overdue as % of outstandings                  2.3%
Bad and doubtful debts                    Rs  8.9 M
Provision for bad and doubtful debts   Rs 13.4 M
Details for the individual SCB, over each of the past five years, are shown
in Table 9. Currently all three SCB have a recoveries rate well in excess of
75%. To ensure consistent recoveries standards among various IDA-supported
credit projects in India, NCDC would follow the same recoveries performance
criteria applied by ARDC in respect of SCB.  Aging of overdues among the
3       three Project SCB as of June 30, 1977 is as follows:
Uttar Pradesh Haryana Orissa Total
------------ Rs Millions ------------
Less than 1 year           2.8       18.6        nil    21.4
1 to 2 years              nil         nil        nil    nil
2 to 3 years              nil         nil        0.1      0.1
3 to 4 years              8.7         nil        nil      8.7
Over 4 years               9.0        0.1        0.2      9.3
Total               20.6        18.7        0.3    39.5
Financial Performance of SCB
3.21      Comparative Income and Expenditure Statements for the year 1976/77
and the Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1977 for all three SCB are summarized
in Tables 10 and 11. Analysis of their performance during the five-year
period ended June 30, 1977 confirms that all these SCB are suitable for use
by NCDC as onlending channels under the proposed Project.
Cooperative Marketing Federations
3.22      In general, all Federations in the Project States act as State level
wholesalers and distributors of farm inputs, and buyers, processors and mar-
*       keters of agricultural produce, dealing through marketing societies and village



- 10 -
level cooperatives.  The Federations that would participate in the proposed              0
Project are: the Haryana Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation Ltd.
(HAFED); the Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Federation Ltd. (PCF) 1/; and Orissa
State Cooperative Marketing Federation Ltd. (OSCMF). All Federations are
governed by a General Body of Members and a Board of Directors. The Managing
Director is the chief executive of the Federation and, in all three cases,
the present incumbents are government officers appointed on "deputation".
All three Federations also have specialized civil engineering departments
with qualified staff. Financial performance of these Federations has been
satisfactory.
3.23      HAFED, established in 1966, has a membership of 71 (mainly marketing
societies) and staff strength of about 900. It is recognized as a successful
Apex cooperative institution and could serve as a model for others. Farm in-
puts handled include fertilizer, pesticide and seed. Agricultural commodities
handled are mainly wheat, paddy and maize. Others include pulses, barley,
mustard, potatoes, onions, cotton and apples. HAFED also owns and operates
two cattle feed plants, nine rice shellers, two pulse mills, two fertilizer
granulating plants and a bakery. It also operates 80 covered godowns of
81,500 tons and CAP storage of 29,000 tons.
3.24      PCF, established in 1943, has a membership of 279 including 184
marketing societies and 31 DCB and 52 District Cooperative Federations.
PCF has emphasized distribution of fertilizer, handling more than 150,000
nutrient tons in 1976/77. For wheat procurement, PCF has opened more than
1,400 Purchase Centers throughout the State and now commands about 57% of
the total wheat bought in Uttar Pradesh under the Procurement Scheme.  PCF's
other marketing operations include pulses, oilseeds, and oils. Godown capa-
city owned and operated by PCF is about 130,000 tons. It also operates a
vegetable oil mill, rosin and turpentine factory, "ayurvedic" drug factory
(based on herbs), cold storage, printing, plastic goods manufacturing and
the U.P. Handicrafts Emporium in Bombay.
3.25      OSCMF, established in 1948, has 154 members and a staff of 243.
Although concentration in farm inputs has been on fertilizer, the quantity
distributed in 1976/77 was only about 25,000 tons because use of fertilizers
in Orissa is much less than in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Foodgrain procure-
ment is confined to procure paddy for GOO which in the same year was about
25,000 tons. The general reason for the relatively smaller role played
by OSCMF is also that the Cooperative Marketing Societies in Orissa are
stronger than their counterparts in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh--they own the
rice mills and most of the storage capacity used by them. OSCMF owns and
operates about 10,000 tons of godowns.
3.26      A Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation (TDCC) was established
in 1967 specifically to promote development of the "Tribals" of Orissa.
Similar to the Cooperative Federations, TDCC is engaged in procuring and
marketing of surplus agricultural and minor forest produce but concentrating
1/   PCF is the acronym derived from its old name Provincial Cooperative
Federation.                                                                         i



- 11 -
*        its activities in the "Tribal Areas."  TDCC also supplies the Tribals with
most essential consumer goods and provides production and consumption loans.
The membership of TDCC consists of 190 "Large Scale Marketing Primary
Societies" (LAMPS) and GOO. The latter owns 80% of TDCC's capital of Rs 20 M.
TDCC had a total turnover of Rs 42 M in 1976/77. Godowns capacity owned and
operated by TDCC at railheads and major road junctions in the Tribal areas
is about 10,000 tons.
Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS)
3.27      In the initial stages, the major function of these societies has
been distribution of short- and medium-term credit to member farmers. Grad-
ually, many of the PCS have diversified their activities into other services,
particularly stocking and distribution of farm inputs--mostly fertilizer. In
recent years, it has been government policy to encourage and enforce the
amalgamation of small PCS each serving one or two villages into larger multi-
purpose societies, adding marketing of farm produce, distribution of consumer
goods, and mobilization of savings deposits to their existing functions. The
objective was to provide an expanded membership, covering 5 to 15 villages, to
generate sufficient business to be able to support a trained manager and to
make the PCS financially viable.
3.28      The policy of restructuring and amalgamation of agricultural credit
societies, followed nationally, resulted in a significant reduction in their
number from 175,000 in 1973 down to about 125,000 in June 1977 (Annex 1,
*        Table 12).  In the Project States, the total of PCS in 1976 numbering 18,761
was reduced by 31% to 12,915 in May 1978.  The reorganized societies have
been renamed with different names in the project States. 1/ They serve as
multipurpose service centers and function as focal points for rural develop-
ment activity.
Training
3.29      Construction of new godowns under the Project would not by itself
warrant special training of participants (introductory orientation sessions
would be arranged in all areas by the RCS and SCB). One of the most essen-
tial factors for longer term success of the cooperatives, especially at the
PCS level, is the availability of trained and motivated staff and informed
membership. Reorganization of PCS and employment of new managers, and in
some cases accountants/salesmen, has increased the training needs manifold.
The managers to be trained number over 2,000 in Haryana, 8,000 in Uttar
Pradesh and 2,500 in Orissa. In addition, the new field staff of RCS,
several hundreds in each State, also require training. In all Project States,
the training requirements have been acknowledged by RCS and State Cooperative
Union officers and satisfactory arrangements have been made to train the new
staff. Competent training staff would be available. They would come partly
1/   Often known as "Mini Banks" in Haryana, "Nyaya Panchayat Societies" in
Uttar Pradesh, and PACS (Primary Agricultural Credit Societies) and
LAMPS (Large Marketing Primary Societies) in Orissa.



- 12 -
from universities and be trained for cooperative work at Pune Institute
(3.31), and partly from Cooperative Departments on secondment basis.  A crash
induction program of three to eight weeks has been designed for the PCS man-
agers and courses have already been started in all three States.  The syllabus
of crash induction courses has been pruned of the rather heavy idealistic,
historical and theoretical subjects typical for the basic cooperative courses
which were the most common training in the past.  Also in the future, PCS
managers would attend the basic courses within one to three years from the
induction course. Separate arrangements have been made to ensure that store-
keepers and salesmen will receive the training they require.
3.30      In Haryana, there are four junior staff training centers and two
more are to be opened in 1978. The annual intake would be 1,400 students in
the crash program (700 students in 1978). In Uttar Pradesh, four training
centers are used for the basic courses and seven new ones have been included
in the draft Sixth Five-Year Plan. For the crash orientation program, fif-
teen temporary training centers have been established. In Orissa, there are
eleven training centers. Construction of new school buildings is underway
and in 1979, eleven centers out of seventeen planned would have permanent
buildings (part financed under IDA Credit 682-IN). At present, the training
capacity is about 700-800 persons/year. These arrangements would allow train-
ing of all recruited staff in the PCS more speedily than the completion of
new godowns.
3.31      Adequate facilities also exist for training the more senior staff
of the cooperatives participating in the Project. The training institutions
catering for this level are Cooperative Training Colleges, located in each                 0
of the Project States and the Vaikuth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative
Management situated in Pune. A second similar higher level training insti-
tution is to be opened in Uttar Pradesh in 1978. The RCS officers receive
their training in the same institutions as the cooperative movement staff.
For specialized banking training of SCB staff, the Bankers Training College,
College of Agricultural Banking and RBI Staff Training College are available.
The Federations' staff have equally good opportunities in public training
institutions. Marketing and storage training facilities are available at
the FCI Staff Training College.
3.32      The training of society members and committee members received
little attention before reorganization of the societies. Since then, a
number of field education teams have arranged many courses and education
events for these groups. The training need is enormous, i.e., about 20,000
committee members in Haryana, 80,000 in Uttar Pradesh and 25,000 in Orissa,
and 0.8 million society members in Haryana, 7.0 million in Uttar Pradesh
and 2.2 million in Orissa. The resources available (5 teams in Haryana,
57 in Uttar Pradesh and 23 in Orissa) have, however, been far short of needs.
The State Cooperative Departments have already acknowledged this in their
planning.



- 13 -
IV.  TIIE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Rationale
4.01      While the physical objective of the Project is to construct godowns
in three States -- Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh -- the primary objectives
are in institution building. First, the aim is to make NCDC grow into a more
effective and viable development institution. Second, construction of godowns
is meant to promote building a stronger cooperative infrastructure in rural
areas. Godown construction activity was selected because of the urgent need
to provide storage in rural areas for agricultural inputs and outputs and the
need for supporting the development of the cooperative sector. Only three
States are included in the project to keep the geographical spread within
a conveniently manageable scale. The States chosen for the Project also pro-
vide a representative picture of the varying levels of cooperative development
in India. Haryana is high on the scale of cooperative development whereas
Orissa is low on the scale. Uttar Pradesh is on an intermediate and also in
a mixed stage of development--certain parts of the vast State are very well
developed whereas other parts are poor in development of cooperatives. As
the Project emphasis is on institution building of NCDC and onlending SCB,
the cooperatives and institutions concerned in cooperative development, the
physical aspects of the project have been designed deliberately simple. This
approach would also enable an early assessment of NCDC's institutional progress
*      so that a broader based cooperative lending program through NCDC could be
taken up for consideration within a reasonably short period.
4.02      NCDC would be provided with funds to help Primary Cooperative Societies,
Marketing Societies and Cooperative Federations in the three Project States
and TDCC in Orissa construct additional storage-cum-office facilities and im-
prove existing infrastructure at village and rural market levels. The storage
buildings would enable the cooperatives to handle more effectively agricultural
inputs and outputs and also facilitate the sale of consumer goods and serve as
rural service centers. The storage provided under this Project is for the
most part at village level and of a type different from, and complementary to,
the facilities provided by the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC), State
Warehousing Corporation (SWC) and Food Corporation of India (FCI). Facilities
provided by CWC, SWC and FCI are mostly concerned with storage of foodgrains
in the hands of Central and State Governments. Village storage needs were
well recognized and had been identified and confirmed during the Eastern
Foodgrains Sector Reviews and the appraisal of the Orissa Agricultural
Development Project (4.04).
4.03      The storage capacity required at the rural level is directly related
to farm inputs usage and agricultural production. Under the draft Five-Year
Plan (1978-83) projections, fertilizer demand and foodgrain output in the
Project States have been projected to increase annually at 15 to 22% and 4
to 6% respectively. Although the foodgrain increases have been taken in the
Project planning as projected, the growth of fertilizer use has been assumed
more conservatively, ranging from 10 to 17% (Annex 1, Table 13). Additional
a      storage capacity is required not only to satisfy the existing unmet demand



- 14 -
(about 170,000 tons in Haryana and about 500,000 tons each in both Uttar
Pradesh and Orissa, according to 1976/77 estimates) but also to accommodate
the projected demand increase.
4.04      The cooperatives currently distribute more than half of the non-
organic fertilizers used in India (80% in Haryana, 60% in Uttar Pradesh and
50% in Orissa). In recent years, the cooperatives have procured 25 to 50%
of foodgrains purchased by the public sector agencies, but the share of
godown capacity of the Cooperative Federations and Regional Cooperative
Marketing Societies of State needs in 1976/77 was 5% in Haryana, 4% in Uttar
Pradesh and 5% in Orissa (Annex 1, Table 13). GOS have assumed in their
planning process for the draft Five-Year Plan (1978-83) that the coopera-
tives will maintain their current share of the fertilizer sales and undertake
a growing share of the procurement of grain and other farm produce. Conse-
quently, the need of the cooperatives for increased storage capacity is
becoming more urgent. Care has been taken to ensure that there would be
no excess supply of storage either at village level or market centers. In
Haryana, a storage coordination committee set up by GOH has assessed the
future storage needs of the State and decided on the cooperatives' share
of it. In Uttar Pradesh and Orissa, godowns required to be constructed
by cooperatives have been determined by the RCS in collaboration with the
Department of Agriculture and the public agencies owning warehouses. In
Orissa, the additional need for cooperative godowns has been ascertained
by the IDA mission for the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Credit
No. 682-IN). 1/
Project Description
4.05      The Project comprises the construction of godowns over a five-year
period of about one million tons in all three Project States and rehabilita-
tion of about 1,100 existing godowns in Orissa which would result in an
incremental capacity of 80,000 tons. Of the total 7,550 new godowns to be
constructed 7,150 would be for Primary Credit Societies. These buildings
would be of either 50 or 100 tons capacity. Many of the PCS godowns would
have a manager's residence attached. Because of windy conditions prevalent
in certain areas, many godowns would require reinforced cement concrete roof-
ing while the others would be constructed with wood trusses and asbestos
sheets. Two-thirds of the PCS new godowns would have attached manager's
residence and a similar proportion would need reinforced concrete roofs
(Annex 1, Tables 14.3 to 14.5).
4.06      Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies (RCMS) in Orissa which
already own the godowns they operate would have 280 units of 250 tons and 500
tons constructed under this Project. RCMS in the other two States prefer to
secure their additional storage requirement by renting from the apex Federa-
tions -- HAFED and PCF.
1/   Appraisal Report No. 1301a-IN.                                                       s



- 15 -
*       4.07       The apex Marketing Federations would construct about 135 godowns
of capacities ranging from 250 to 5,000 tons each, making a total of 294,000
tons. HAFED would construct 70 units for 214,000 tons, PCF 35 units for
50,000 tons, OSCMF 23 units for 20,000 tons and TDCC 10 units for 10,000
tons.
Building Designs and Specifications
4.08      All buildings would be based on standard designs of four different
capacities -- 50 and 100 tons for use by PCS and 250 and 2,000 tons for RCMS
and Federations. Design drawings for all capacities were agreed during
appraisal. Godowns with 500 tons capacity would be double the length of a
250 ton unit and a 1,000 ton capacity would be half as long as the 2,000 ton
model. Godowns of 3,000 and 5,000 tons would similarly be based on the
2,000 ton model, having their lengths proportionately increased (4.09).
Facilities provided for PCS would include storage space for fertilizer
separated from space for farm produce, space for consumer goods storage and
sales, society office, drinking water supply, WC facilities, veranda, patio
for meetings, and parking yard. Materials used for all construction would
be mainly clay bricks, cement, steel, timber, asbestos roofing sheets and
sand. Building designs for the most typical models are shown in Annex 1,
Charts 4 to 6.
4.09      The PCS godowns have been designed for bagged storage of foodgrains
and fertilizers with adequate ventilation and space for workers to move about
and for handling, offices and consumer shop facilities.  The designs are
based on a norm of floor space of 6 sq ft/ton.  The drawings for large capa-
city godowns are standardized in India based on storage capacity, strength
of structure, and economy in construction. The type designs so prepared are
multiplied span-wise, spacing roof trusses to suit the capacity. Due to the
hot climate of the country, reinforced cement concrete (RCC) roofing is pre-
ferred for PCS godowns. RCC has better heat insulation properties than
asbestos roofing in addition to being a more permanent type of construction.
Large godowns will have asbestos roofing on the pattern of existing godowns
of other storage agencies like FCI, CWC and SWC. NCDC's assurance has been
obtained that building designs, specifications and construction standards
followed for project godowns would be acceptable to IDA.
Land for Godowns
4.10      Selection of suitable land for locating the godowns is recognized by
all participating GOS and SCB and by NCDC to be vital to the success of the
operations carried on by use of these buildings. As the extent of the land
required for the buildings is small, finding suitable land is not considered
to cause problems. The land required could be as small as 0.25 acre for a
50 ton godown for PCS and 2.0 acres for a 5,000 ton unit of the Federations.
In Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, Panchayat land belonging to the village would
in many cases be transferred, free of cost, to the PCS for this purpose. In
Orissa, however, it is expected that a larger proportion of the PCS would
have to purchase the land required. In view of the importance of availability



- 16 -
of suitable land, this element has been emphasized in the subproject appraisal
criteria to be followed by NCDC and SCB (para C.1 Technical Criteria in
Annex 4).
4.11      Components in addition to godown construction include technical
assistance, vehicles, and engineering instruments. Although these miscel-
laneous components represent only about 1-1/2% of the total project costs,
they are vital to the successful implementation of the project.
4.12      Technical Assistance.  Local consultant services totalling 60 man-
months would be engaged to assist the new Organization and Methods (O&M)
Departments set up in the NCDC and the SCB in the three Project States--24
man-months for NCDC and 12 man-months each for the three SCB. The cost per
man-month has been calculated at Rs 25,000. The consultants will assist in
organizational improvements of these institutions and in staff training,
improving accounting and management information systems and preparation of
procedure manuals. Assurances have been obtained from NCDC that the terms
of reference for these consultants would be agreed with IDA.
4.13      Mobility of the executive and technical field staff of NCDC, SCB
and of the participating cooperatives is essential for effective project
implementation. Provision has, therefore, been made in project for vehicles
suitable for field conditions -- 33 motor cars for executives in NCDC's Zonal
offices and engineers in SCB Headquarters and Divisional Offices, 150 motor
scooters for junior engineers and development officers to be employed by SCB,
and 8,200 pedal bicycles for the managers of the participating PCS.  Motor
Cars would be owned and maintained by NCDC and SCB whereas the motor scooters
and pedal bicycles would generally be provided to the staff under a loan-
purchase scheme.
4.14      Provision is also included for supply of engineering instruments
for use by the engineering staff of SCB and NCDC. These are required in
connection with survey, design drawings, construction, supervision and payment
certification of the Project godowns.
Cost Estimates
4.15      Project costs, over a five-year development period, are estimated
at Rs 550 M (US$64 M), very little of which is expected to involve foreign
exchange for direct imports. Duties and taxes included in total costs are
estimated at about Rs 32 M (US$4 M). Details of costs, summarized below,
are in Annex 1, Table 14.



- 17 -
Summary of Project Costs /a
Unit      No.       Total       Cost         Cost
Capacity    of       Capacity      Rs          US$
Tons    Godowns      Tons      Millions   Millions
New Godowns:
Haryana:
Federation (HAFED)         1-5,000       70     214,000      57.8         6.7
Primary Cooperative
Societies               50-100    1,500       125,000      68.5         7.9
Subtotal                       1,570      339,000    126.3         14.6
Uttar Pradesh:
Federation (PCF)           1-2,000       35      50,000      14.5         1.7
Primary Cooperative
Societies                50-100   4,600       410,000    220.0         25.6
Subtotal                       4,635      460,000    234.5        27.3
Orissa:
Federation (OSCMF)       250-2,000       23      20,000       5.0         0.6
Tribal Development
Coop. Corporation      1,250-2,500        6      10,000       2.4         0.3
Regional Cooperative
Marketing Societies   250-  500    280         80,000      20.8         2.4
Primary Cooperative
Societies               50-  100  1,040       104,000      45.3         5.3
Subtotal                       1,349      214,000      73.5        8.6
Godown Rehabilitation
Orissa:                      50-  100  1,100       80,000       8.2         0.9
Technical Assistance, Vehicles
Engineering Instruments                                       6.5         0.8
Total Base Costs                                         449.0        52.2
Physical Contingencies  (5%)                                   22.3         2.6
Price Contingencies                                            78.6         9.1
TOTAL                             8,654   1,093,000    549.9          63.9
/a   Foreign exchange costs, mostly indirect, would amount to about 10%
of total costs, or about US$6 M.



- 18 -
4.16      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal updated to
July 1978. Physical contingencies have been added at 5% on base costs. Price
contingencies totalling 16.5% of base costs, calculated in accordance with
Bank estimates of future price movements in India, 1/ are also included.
Project Financing
4.17      An IDA credit of US$30 M, representing 50% of the total Project
costs, net of duties and taxes, is proposed. The IDA credit would meet about
47% of the planned investments. The remaining 53% would be met by the
participating cooperatives, governments of the Project States and NCDC as
indicated below.
Project Financing Table
Percentage
of Total         Rs          US$
Project Costs    Million    Million
NCDC through SCB, as Loan to
Beneficiaries                            47            256.5        30.0
(Representing IDA Credit)
NCDC through SCB, as Loan to
Beneficiaries                            13             71.9         8.3
(NCDC's own funds)
NCDC to State Governments, as Loan /a    15               83.0         9.5
State Governments to Beneficiaries
(from State Budget Funds) /b             20            110.8       12.9
Beneficiary Cooperatives                    5             27.7         3.2
100           549.9        63.9
/a   State governments will pass this on to the beneficiary cooperatives as
equity contributions.
/b   State governments will provide this as equity to the beneficiary coop-
eratives except in Orissa where this 20% would be given as a grant.
4.18      The IDA Credit to GOI would be on standard terms.  GOI would onlend
the proceeds of IDA Credit to NCDC under financial arrangements to be entered
into in accordance with terms and conditions published by the Department of
Banking of GOI's Union Ministry of Finance. 2/ Foreign exchange risk would
be borne by GOI. NCDC's own contribution totaling 28% would be funded out of
additional loans from GOI to NCDC, market borrowings by NCDC or from repayment
receipts from past lendings. Assurances have been obtained from GOI that
adequate funds would be made or caused to be made available to NCDC to meet
1/   Currently estimated at an annual rate between 6% and 7%.
2/   Current rate of interest applicable to loans not exceeding 15 years is
7-1/4% p.a.



- 19 -
*       the latter's financial commitment under the Project.  The finalization of
financial arrangements between GOI and NCDC acceptable to IDA would be a con-
dition of credit effectiveness. Lending terms and conditions governing loans
to be made by GOI, NCDC and SCB are described in para 5.24.
Procurement
4.19      The project would involve relatively small investment at a time by
several individual cooperatives, spread throughout the three Project States.
Since contracts for godown construction would be individually small, 1/ dis-
persed in time and place, they would not be attractive for, and thus would not
warrant, international competitive bidding procedures.  These would, therefore,
be let on local competitive bidding, advertised locally, and in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Suitable technical assistance services
(US$170,000) are expected to be available locally and will be attained in
accordance with procedures agreed with IDA. Supervisory vehicles (US$560,000)
and engineering instruments (US$12,000) would be procured by prudent shopping
as the quantities and values involved are not significant enough to merit the
observance of competitive bidding procedures and selling prices of locally
manufactured vehicles are well established. The Federations (and TDCC) would
handle their own procurements. SCB would manage the procurement for PCS and
RCMS (5.17).
Disbursements
*:^    4.20       The IDA disbursements for godown construction (US$29.4 M) would be
made against NCDC's certified statements of loans extended by participating
SCB and refinanced by NCDC. For ease of administration, IDA disbursements
would be set at 80% of project loans made by NCDC to SCB. Documents in
support of these would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be
retained by NCDC and made available to IDA for inspection during Project
supervision. Other disbursements (US$0.6 M) under the Credit would cover:
-    100% of technical assistance services;
-    100% of foreign expenditure for imported items; and
-    80% of locally manufactured vehicles and equipment and
locally procured items.
Disbursements against these three categories would, however, be fully docu-
mented. Appropriate assurances in this regard have been obtained from GOI
and NCDC. In order to relieve resource constraints and encourage initiation
of Project activities before Board approval, expenditure for godown construc-
tion, vehicles, technical assistance consultants, and engineering instruments
incurred on the Project after July 1, 1978, but prior to Credit signing, would
be eligible for disbursement up to a limit of US$1.0 M. A schedule of esti-
mated disbursements is given in Annex 3.
1/   The largest godowns would be those constructed by the three State Feder-
ations (HAFED, PCF and OSCMF) with a maximum of 5,000 tons costing
Rs 1.2 M (US$139,000).



- 20 -
V.  ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND LENDING OPERATIONS
General
5.01      NCDC would be the major implementing agency coordinating Project
activities of all other participating agencies. GOS concerned would continue
to provide overall policy guidance in regard to development of the cooperative
sector in their respective States. The godowns would be owned and operated by
the various multipurpose cooperative societies (PCS), the marketing societies
(RCMS), the State-level Cooperative Federations (HAFED, PCF and OSCMF) and
TDCC. Primary responsibility for Project promotion, subproject identification
would be that of the RCS in each State. RCS staff would also assist the par-
ticipating PCS and RCMS to prepare subprojects. NCDC's Zonal Office staff
would provide additional support in the promotion and sub-project identifi-
cation work. SCB would be NCDC's onlending channel and implementing agency
at State level.
Cooperative Societies (RCMS and PCS)
5.02      Legally, the highest authority of these societies is the General
Body of members and decisions by them are taken at general meetings. In
societies with less than 250 members, each member has one vote. In larger
societies, each group of 10 members elect a delegate to attend and vote
at meetings of the General Body. Each society appoints a Management Board
not exceeding eleven members, three of whom may be appointed by GOS (RCS).
The Board appoints one of their members as the honorary President of the
society. The Board also appoints a paid full or part-time Secretary 1/ or
Manager who, in consultation with the President, carries out all executive
functions of the society.
5.03      Depending on the size of the society and the type of activities
carried out, the manager is provided with appropriate support staff such
as clerks and salesmen. With the reorganization and mergers of PCS, it
has become possible for more and more societies to employ full-time compe-
tent managers (3.27 and 3.28). The recent trend has been to bring the
managers of the reorganized societies in each State under a special Coop-
erative Society Managers' Cadre (3.17). Their recruitment, training, transfer
and administration are the responsibility of DCB (in Haryana and Orissa)
or SCB (in Uttar Pradesh). Each of the cooperative societies participating
in the project could thus be assured of a capable and professionally trained
manager.  He will be of a caliber not only to be able to prepare the godown
subproject 2/ and to follow-up the godown construction program but also to
manage the society's subsequent business operations efficiently.
1/   Where financial viability does not permit this, the Board of management
carries out the executive functions through honorary secretaries and
treasurers.
2/   With active assistance from RCS staff and SCB's field officers.



- 21 -
*      Cooperative Federations and TDCC
5.04      The Managing Directors of HAFED, PCF, OSCMF and TDCC are all nominees
of the respective participating GOS. The present incumbents are all of high
caliber and have proved themselves equal to their tasks. All these institu-
tions have adequately qualified staff and also the experience in investment
planning, project preparation for loan financing, preparing engineering designs
and tenders, supervising building construction and should, therefore, not face
major problems in successfully implementing their share of Project activities.
Arrangements have already been made by these institutions to recruit and train
the additional staff required to cope with the increased work load related to
this Project (Annex 1, Table 15).
State Cooperative Banks
5.05      Special responsibility for Project implementation in SCB would be
that of their Special Loans Department. All past long-term lending activities
were handled in this investment department headed by a Senior Program/Project
Officer. SCB has made arrangements to strengthen their staffing capacity to
appraise, supervise and monitor the godown construction subprojects. This
department would also have an engineering division to take care of the tech-
nical aspects of the subprojects. The staffing intensity in the three Project
States varies according to number and geographical scatter of the Districts,
the SCB divisional offices, and the DCB offices which would be used as dis-
bursing and collecting agents.
5.06      The engineering division in each of the SCB would be headed by a
qualified Executive Engineer based at the bank headquarters. An Assistant
Engineer would be stationed at each of the Divisional Offices of the SCB
(Haryana 4, Orissa 6, and Uttar Pradesh 11). About 100 Junior Engineers
(technical assistants specialized in building construction) and 46 Development
Officers would be employed. All of these would spend most of their time in
the field, assisting the managers of cooperatives, counselling on completion
of subproject reports and loan applications in addition to appraising, moni-
toring and certification of construction for payments (Annex 1, Table 15). An
assurance has been obtained from GOI and NCDC that SCB would strengthen its
staffing with the type, numbers and phasing agreed with IDA.
NCDC's Role
5.07      NCDC, as the prime implementing agency, would assist, coordinate
and monitor the activities of other participating agencies at all phases
of project implementation and maintain active liaison with the governments
of all three States and GOI. NCDC's organization and management are well
equipped to handle development finance. Special organizational and staffing
arrangements are, however, being made to implement this Project--the first
one NCDC is undertaking with financial assistance from international insti-
tutions. This Project also provides the first opportunity for NCDC to use
banking institutions such as SCB, as onlending channels and to enforce bank-
ing disciplines on any significant scale. Hitherto, most of the lending
was channeled through the RCS in the States in which the borrowing coopera-
tives are situated.



- 22 -
5.08      The major steps taken by NCDC towards this goal are:
(a)  restructuring and staffing the Fertilizer/Inputs/Storage
Department at headquarters, giving greater emphasis to
investment appraisal, godown construction and monitoring;
(b)  reorganizing and upgrading its Regional Offices into Zonal
Offices which would function as NCDC's branches with ade-
quate delegation of powers to the Zonal Managers;
(c)  appointment of Project Officers at the Zonal Offices specially
assigned to help in implementation of this Project;
(d)  formation of an Organization and Methods (O&M) department at
headquarters to be assisted by 0&M consultants to improve
accounting and management information systems and procedures; and
(e) creation of a Specialists' Pool to support subproject appraisal
and monitoring activities.
Annex 1, Chart 2 reflects the foregoing organizational arrangements.
5.09      NCDC's Zonal Offices responsible for Project activities would be
located in Chandrigarh (Haryana), Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh) and Calcutta (for
Orissa).  The Calcutta Zonal Office is in West Bengal, far away from
Bhubaneswar (capital of Orissa).  Orissa is relatively backward in coopera-
tive development. A Project Office is, therefore, being set up in Bhubaneswar
as an arm of the Calcutta Zonal Office, with staff experienced in project
analysis. NCDC's new General Manager at New Delhi who reports direct to the
Managing Director is given the special responsibility for monitoring the
implementation of this Project.
5.10      A Project Coordinating Committee would be established in all Project
States for promotion of Project activities and monitoring and coordination
purposes. This Committee would be headed by the Agricultural Production or
Cooperative Commissioner and have as members representatives from partici-
pating agencies. The committee would have a senior officer as its executive
secretary.
Operational and Lending Procedures
5.11      Initial steps in the further development of the cooperative sector
through construction of village and rural godowns under the Project have
already been taken by the three participating States in consultation with
the respective RCS, SCB and NCDC. The number of cooperatives which would
undertake godown construction, the geographical distribution of the potential
borrowers, and the phasing of construction have also been tentatively planned
and agreed.
5.12      The field staff of the Office of RCS and the Project Development
Officers of SCB would be given a Project orientation by the NCDC's head-
quarters executives and the Zonal Office Managers. The RCS staff would



- 23 -
concentrate on Project promotion and identification of the cooperatives which
would most benefit from the godown construction program and are ready and able
to undertake the desired investment. SCB's Project Development Officers would
help the managers of the cooperatives to prepare subproject reports and the
loan application forms. Subproject report format is suggested in Annex 4.
5.13      The subproject report would contain vital information to establish
the need for the godown of the size planned, its financial viability and
related social benefits. The Project Officers in NCDC's Zonal Offices would
provide guidance to RCS and SCB staff and the committee members and managers
of the participating cooperatives on finding the most suited sites for godown
locations and on data collection for preparation of subproject reports. The
Federations and TDCC are equipped to prepare their subproject reports without
expecting too much help from these agencies.
5.14      The subproject reports would be completed in quadruplicate--original
sent to SCB (Divisional Office), one copy to RCS, the second copy to NCDC
Zonal Office and the third copy retained by the cooperative. This would enable
all three parties to review the subprojects independently and simultaneously
and to avoid delays that would be inevitable if reviews were to follow in
succession.
Subproject Appraisal and Monitoring
5.15      RCS reviews the subproject and loan application not only to give
GOS approval for activities undertaken by cooperatives in the State, but also
to arrange for the provision of its share of finance for the investment (4.17).
The NCDC Zonal Office reviews the subprojects because NCDC would be required
to refinance SCB loans to cooperatives. Detailed appraisal of every subproject
would be the responsibility of SCB who carry the greatest degree of lending
risks. Unless RCS (on behalf of GOS) or NCDC Zonal Office staff intimate to
SCB, within 5 working days, any reservations connected with the subproject,
the latter would be entitled to assume that the other two parties would honor
their obligations -- GOS to provide 20% out of budget towards equity (or grant
for some cases in Orissa), and borrow 15% from NCDC to be passed on as equity
in the cooperatives; and NCDC to lend 15% to GOS, and 60% to SCB for loans
given to ultimate borrrowers.
5.16      Appraisal of the subproject by SCB would include a thorough review
of technical and financial feasibility including field investigation by the
SCB staff. These appraisals would be based on criteria established in agree-
ment between NCDC and IDA (Annex 4). Suitable assurances have been obtained
from GOI and NCDC that these criteria would be applied by SCB in every loan
application covered under this Project. Subprojects for all godowns of 1,000
tons and above and for the first five godowns of each of different capacities
in every participating State would be subject to NCDC's full appraisal and
approval. Subsequent subprojects would be reviewed by NCDC on a sample basis
and approved. IDA would review a selected number of subprojects during follow-
up visits. Subject to positive appraisal by SCB, it would enter into a loan
agreement with the borrowing cooperative. SCB would submit to RCS and NCDC
periodical statements of such loan approvals, based on which GOS and NCDC
would arrange to honor their financial commitments.



- 24 -
5.17      The Federations and TDCC are technically equipped to handle their
own procurement and construction supervision. Once they receive from SCB
the confirmation of loan approval they would proceed to prepare detail build-
ing designs and tender documents for award of godown construction contracts.
The other cooperatives (PCS and RCMS), however, would have to rely on outside
help for their technical needs. The engineering division of the SCB would
provide this technical support. Detail specifications would be based on
standard designs (Annex 1, Charts 5 and 6) and tenders would be invited for
construction contracts which would as far as practical be bulked based on
geographical and time scatter. This would enable the cooperatives also to
participate in benefits of scale.
5.18      The engineering and technical staff of SCB would also supervise
the building construction by periodical visits. The vehicles provided under
Project would enable the field staff to carry out these supervisions more
frequently and effectively. Loan disbursements by SCB would be based on work
certification by its field technical staff. NCDC's Zonal Office staff would
also make periodic field visits providing necessary liaison between parti-
cipating agencies and making test checks of subproject progress. The State
level monitoring and coordination would be carried out by the Project Coor-
dinating Committee. Monitoring arrangements are also discussed in Annex 5.
Project Evaluation
5.19      NCDC would have as one of its specific responsibilities the task of
ensuring effective project evaluation.  For this purpose, NCDC has arranged
to establish an Evaluation Unit, reporting directly to the Managing Director.
This Unit would follow-up Project implementation; identify problem areas;
assess effectiveness of participating institutions, and measure subproject
impact on the participating cooperatives and their members and the farming
community served by the cooperatives; comparing costs and benefits realized
with appraisal estimates and projections. The head of the Unit would be
an economist, supported by a statistician and a cooperative specialist. The
Evaluation Unit would be independent of all other departments of NCDC and
work in close collaboration with its Management Audit (internal audit)
Department.
5.20      The Unit would carry out its activities by keeping close and con-
tinuous liaison with GOI and GOS institutions, SCB and borrowing cooperatives.
Cooperation of all Project participants and concerned institutions and indi-
viduals would be solicited to furnish whatever information is considered
relevant for the evaluation. The Unit would also make its own arrangements
to collect information and data required for its studies both from Project
records and outside sources.
5.21      The reports would be prepared at least half-yearly and submitted
to the NCDC Managing Director (Annex 5). Copies of all evaluation reports
would be made available to IDA for information. The Evaluation Unit would
be responsible for the preparation of the Project Completion Report submitted
to IDA. Appropriate assurances have been obtained from GOI and NCDC on these
matters.



- 25 -
Accounts and Audit
5.22      The accounting and auditing procedures proposed for this Project
would be similar to those followed in other Indian agricultural Credits
financed by the Bank Group. NCDC, as Project implementing agency, would
prepare annual budgets, quarterly progress reports, summary loan statements,
and annual accounts as they relate to Project activities. Participating SCB
would maintain detailed memorandum records, and ledger and control accounts
relating to all subproject loans. These records together with subproject re-
ports and related loan documentation and supervision summaries would provide
a complete record of each subproject cycle, its progress including project
appraisal, loan approval, disbursements, contribution by GOS, interest charges,
installments due, collections, overdues and follow-up action. These records
would be reviewed periodically by IDA supervision missions. Summarized in-
formation on these would be incorporated in NCDC's quarterly progress reports.
Assurances have been obtained from GOI and NCDC that copies of the following
documents would be made available to IDA:
(a) Annual work programs and related cost estimates; and
(b) Quarterly progress reports.
5.23      NCDC's accounting system meets with statutory requirements and fol-
lows standards acceptable to the Government Auditor General. As part of its
*      general reorganization, however, NCDC is making arrangements to modernize and
is     simplify its accounting system.  The Auditor General carries out a statutory
audit but NCDC is also considering appointing a firm of Chartered Accountants
to function additionally as auditors to cover management and systems aspects
as well. An assurance has been obtained from NCDC that its accounts would be
audited by auditors satisfactory to IDA. The accounting systems employed by
SCB follow standard reporting requirements of RBI and are generally adequate
for effective credit management. Annual audits of these and other cooperatives
that would participate in the Project are conducted by the State RCS and are
considered satisfactory. Assurances have been obtained from GOI that audit
arrangements for NCDC and participating SCB would be satisfactory to IDA and
that their audited accounts, together with long form and short form reports,
with which GOI is familiar, would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the close of their financial year.
Lending Terms
5.24      NCDC's lending in the past has mostly been through GOS who would
onlend to ultimate borrowers without adding any margin for such service.
Current interest rates charged to GOS by NCDC are 9-1/2% for programs in
Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and 8% in Orissa which, defined as a backward area,
is entitled to a preferential rate. Following past practice, NCDC's loans to
GOS (15% of subproject costs) would be at the 9-1/2% and 8% interest to be
passed to participating cooperatives either as equity capital (in Haryana,
Uttar Pradesh, and non-tribal and cooperatively developed areas of Orissa) and
as grants to cooperatives in backward and tribal areas. Interest on loans to
S      cooperatives for funds channelled through SCB (60% of subproject costs) would



- 26 -
be at 10% compared with the 9-1/2% and 8% currently borne on borrowings for
godown construction. 1/ Interest rate applicable to NCDC borrowings from GOI
for IDA projects will be 7-1/4%. 2/ NCDC's bond issues in recent times carry
interest at 6%. NCDC proposes to charge 7-3/4% interest to SCB. Cooperatives
would receive funds from SCB as 15 year loans including a 3-year repayment
grace period. The proposed rates would provide 2-1/4% margin for SCB and a
1/2% margin for NCDC on funds loaned by GOI. NCDC would have a larger margin
on funds it might raise in the market through bond issues. All NCDC loans to
SCB would be guaranteed by the respective GOS in accordance with the provi-
sions of the NCDC Act. An assurance has been obtained from NCDC that its
terms of lending to SCB and SCB's terms of lending to cooperatives would be
satisfactory to IDA.
5.25      Inflation in India over the past three years has averaged 2.1% per
annum. The inflation rate over the next three years is not expected to ex-
ceed 6% per annlm. Therefore, the proposed rate of 10% to the ultimate
recipients -- the cooperatives -- would be positive. The onlending terms
are consistent with those of comparable subloans and suitable given the
following considerations:
(i)  almost all of NCDC's lending in the past, including loans
for godown construction, has been through the State Gov-
ernment RCS who passed on the funds to the cooperatives
at 8% to 9-1/2% without addition of a margin.
(ii)  although the godowns which are to serve as rural growth
centers would result in significant social and economic
benefits, the financial benefits which are not high,
particularly in the early years, argue in favor of
minimizing the debt service burden. From a cash flow
point of view, in the initial years, it is important
that the financing terms not be too onerous. The terms
proposed should ensure that cooperatives would be able
to build up a modest equity and help to achieve their
social and economic objectives.
(iii)  the difference in the ultimate borrowers' interest rates
as between ARDC and NCDC schemes also reflects the lower
lending costs for the latter. IDA funds passed on to
NCDC by GOI would bear interest at 7-1/4% as in the case
of ARDC. Between NCDC and the ultimate borrower, only
one intermediary (SCB) would be involved whereas in ARDC
schemes, the Cooperative Land Development Banks would be
1/   Interest charged to borrowers in ARDC sponsored programs are 10-1/2%
for minor irrigation schemes and 11% for other agricultural development
programs.
2/   According to the Interest Rates Schedule published by the Department
of Banking in the GOI Ministry of Finance.                                           C



- 27 -
0                  involved in Central (State) and Primary levels.  Under
the NCDC scheme for the Project, ultimate borrowers
are solely cooperative institutions made up largely of
small farmers while under ARDC schemes they are mostly
individual farmers. A spread of 2 to 2-1/4% is adequate
to cover SCB's administrative costs and lending risks
and to leave a reasonable profit margin. 1/ The remain-
ing 1/2% margin for NCDC is adequate to cover its incre-
mental costs particularly because the strengthening of
the Zonal Offices in the Project States also enables it
to appraise and monitor its other lending schemes more
effectively. Furthermore, NCDC would not encounter
effective lending risks since under the NCDC Act, all
loans to SCB are guaranteed by the State governments.
(iv) compared with those in India's agricultural sector, the in-
terest rates proposed by GOI and NCDC are reasonable. Ruling
rates range from 4.5% to 11%, the lower rates applying to
GOI's centrally sponsored schemes. The interest rate applied
in the IDA-financed National Dairy Project (NDP) 2/ is 8-1/2%.
The interest payable under NDP by the borrower is only on 70%
of the project costs, the balance up to 30% is to be financed
by the Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC) as a grant to the borrower
(Cooperative Dairy Union). Comparison of interest rates with
that applied in NDP is very appropriate since that project
also relates to cooperatives and to rural poor.
(v) transfer of resources to the poorer segments of the agricul-
tural sector and development of cooperatives for rural invest-
ment are consistent with national policy. Furthermore, any
surplus made possible through relatively lower rates of interest
would enable the cooperatives to offer better services to the
rural families who are members of such societies. Surpluses
would also help the societies to finance community uplift pro-
grams which should result in substantial social benefits and
improvements in the quality of life.
5.26      In sum, the 10% rate proposed represents an increase of 2 percent-
age points in the case of Orissa and 1/2 percentage point in the case of the
other two Project States.  The Project would represent less than half of
NCDC's total lending program for village storage and only about 10-15% of its
overall activities. The interest rates under the Project would already be
higher than those charged in other States and for other types of investments.
In the circumstances, the achievement in increasing rates for the project
investments represents a reasonable first step in the right direction.
1/   SCB would in addition recover from the borrowing PCS a one time levy of
up to 7% out of subproject costs as technical supervision and service fee.
.      2/   IDA Credit No. 824-IN.



- 28 -
VI.  GODOWN USAGE AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Incremental Godown Capacity
6.01      New godown construction under the Project would provide additional
storage capacity of approximately 1.01 million tons (4.05). About 300,000
tons with Federations (HAFED, PCS, OSMCF and TDCC) would be located at town
centers and railheads, 80,000 tons capacity constructed by RCMS at rural
market centers, and the remaining 635,000 tons with PCS at village (or
Panchayat) level (4.06 and 4.07). These godowns would be used for purchasing,
receiving, warehousing, selling and delivering farm inputs, mainly fertilizers,
and also farm implements, seed, weedicides and pesticides; farm produce mainly
foodgrains and also nonperishable food and other commodities; and consumer
goods.
6.02      The buildings to be newly constructed, and those to be rehabilitated
(in Orissa only) by PCS would in addition function as rural service centers
and as essential infrastructure for village community development based on
cooperative principles. In measuring the utilization of the physical assets
(godowns) of the PCS, it is necessary to take into account the increase in
its loaning or credit business because most of the physical activities in
handling goods would generally reflect themselves in almost equal measure
in the growth of credit demand by the society members.
6.03      Besides sizeable quantities of seeds and chemicals, which have not
been projected, the turnover of farm inputs, outputs and consumer goods in
the three Project States is anticipated to be above the preproject level
as follows (with price contingencies):
1,000 tons        Rs M
Fertilizer                         240            320
Farm Produce                       540            950
Consumer Goods                      -             400
These figures reflect the incremental turnover level reached in Project year
five. The consequential increase of credit extended to farmer members of PCS
annually is estimated to be Rs 540 M. This increasing trend would continue
thereafter, making the societies stronger.
Effect of Godown Costs and Commodity Prices
6.04      The costs of godown construction are based on mid-1978 prices for
labor and materials. As the sizes of godowns vary from 50 to 5,000 tons,
the differences between the cost per ton are also large. In order to
arrive at realistic figures, detailed calculations for materials, labor and
other costs were made for the basic models in each participating State. The
costs vary depending on the size of the godowns, the type of roof and whether
the godown includes a manager's residence or not, and on the expense levels
in the respective States (Annex l,Table 14.2). In Haryana the most typical



- 29 -
godown, (100-ton office-cum-storage building) would cost Rs 58,000 and a
2,000 ton godown Rs 490,000. In Uttar Pradesh, the costs would be about the
same, but in Orissa they would be approximately 15% lower. The average costs
(in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh) per ton capacity for different sized godowns
would be: 1/
- 50 ton godown, without a manager's residence
and with an asbestos sheet roof                    Rs 480/ton
- 100 ton godown with residence and two-thirds
having reinforced cement concrete slab roofs   Rs 420/ton
- 250 ton godown without residence and with
asbestos sheet roof (Orissa) 2/                    Rs 270/ton
- 2,000 ton godown without residence and with
corrugated steel sheet roof                        Rs 245/ton
6.05      The financial benefits derived by the participating cooperatives
depend on the commodity prices and profit margins. However, as the margins
are only a few percentage points of produce price for each activity, changes
in the gross commodity prices would have only a minor effect on the financial
results. Furthermore, as the prices of fertilizers and most agricultural
produce and consumer goods which the cooperatives handle are government con-
*       trolled, the price changes are not expected to be large.  Therefore, most of
the prices used in the financial calculations, which are based on the mid-
1978 current prices, are conservatively assumed to grow only by half of the
anticipated inflation rates.
Financial Projections for PCS
6.06      Traditionally, the main activity of PCS has been provision of credit
to members. As the new buildings would facilitate additional activities and
faster growth of existing activities, the entire business of the society has
to be taken into account in assessing financial viability of the godowns.
Separate analyses were made of the growth projected for a typical PCS in each
of the participating States. As an illustration, the financial rate of return
(FRR) was computed for a model in Haryana. In the calculations, the costs are
assumed to grow beyond year 5 at 7% rate, same rate as before year 5. The
growth of benefits are assumed to drop from over 20% in the first five years
to 10% in years 6 to 10 and to 7% in years 11 to 20. Based on the margins
presently obtained for the different activities of PCS (credit, 3/ inputs,
sales, crop procurement agency, sale of consumer goods), FRR for the society's
investment would be 16%.
1/   Exclusive of land costs.
2/   This type of godown would be built only in Orissa.
a      3/   Without possible bad debts.



- 30 -
6.07      FRR is most sensitive to changes in interest margin on credit
(currently 2.5% between the funds borrowed and loans granted). Reduction
of this margin to 2% (or 20% drop in interest income) would decrease FRR to
12.9%. To provide for the risk of delays in starting the new activities
by the society, despite the godown construction having been completed and
made ready, FRR was also tested for the case with the start of new activi-
ties one year later than scheduled, and the credit activity and overhead
costs continuing to be incurred as normally. Under these assumed adverse
conditions, FRR would be 13.8%. The following is a summary of the FRR
sensitivity tests:
Cost/Benefit          Percentage              Percentage
Items               Change       FRR         Change      FRR
All as projected            -         16.4            -        -
Cost of construction        -10       17.8          +10       15.2
Staff expenses              -10       18.3          +10       14.5
Other recurrent expenses  -10         17.0          +10       15.8
Credit income               -20       12.9          +20       19.7
Income from other
activities               -10       14.3          +10       18.4
Delay of other than
credit income         (1 year)    13.8             -         -
Salvage value               -50       16.3          +50      16.5
In case that the construction design includes manager's residence on the
ground level of the building, and without using reinforced concrete roof-
ing, FRR would be 17.6%. When residential quarters are excluded, FRR would
be higher at 21.2%.
Financial Projections for Federations and RCMS
6.08      In the case of Marketing Federations (and TDCC) financial calcula-
tions were made for a 2,000 ton model godown. As with PCS, the Federations
would use these godowns to facilitate their general business activities. An
average annual net benefit per ton of godown capacity was calculated by tak-
ing into account last three years' profits and making interest and deprecia-
tion adjustments relating to godowns now operated by the Federations. The
cost streams of new godowns are based on 1977/78 actual costs incurred for
similar godowns. Based on these assumptions, FRR is 16.7%. FRR is not par-
ticularly sensitive to moderate changes in any cost or benefit item as will
be apparent from the sensitivity tests summarized below:



- 31 -
Cost/Benefit          Percentage              Percentage
Items               Change       FRR         Change      FRR
All as projected            -         16.7            -        -
Construction costs
godowns                   -10       19.1          +10       14.8
Permanent staff costs       -10       17.0          +10       16.4
Operations and mainte-
nance costs               -10       17.2          +10       16.3
Administration and
overheads                 -20       17.1          +20       16.4
Adjusted net profit/
ton                       -10       13.5          +10       20.0
Salvage value (20
years; land + 1/3 of
construction costs):    -50         16.5          +50       16.9
6.09      As the activities of RCMS are closely related to those of the
Federations, the calculation methodology and rate of return would be very
similar to those shown in the Table of paragraph 6.08.
Cash Flows
6.10      Cash flow calculations were made for typical PCS and Federations
in each Project State. They show that PCS would have difficulties to service
the loan taken for godown construction during the years 1 to 3 after comple-
tion of the buildings. Although the annual net cash flows are negative also
in years 4 to 5, the cumulative surplus would allow repayment to commence
in the fourth year. Payment of dividend on equity could be started from year
5, and repurchase by the society of State-held redeemable equity could be
completed by year 10. If the Federations' new godowns are considered as
separate business entities, and not as an integral part of the Federation
as they in reality are, loan servicing by them could also start conveniently
in year 4 and the cumulative cash flow would be positive thereafter.
Cost Recovery
6.11      The investment and operation costs of the participating entities
would be recovered from the operational profits they are expected to earn.
The contribution to the Project by the participating GOS would be Rs 187.1 M,
of which Rs 186.5 M would be given as redeemable equity capital. They would
receive Rs 80.2 M as loans from NCDC to partly meet this commitment. Only



- 32 -
in Orissa there would be a grant element of Rs 0.6 M given to cooperatives
in Tribal and backward areas. The cash flow projections for the PCS indicate
that during the first 3 to 5 years, they would not be able to pay dividends
on the equity capital. At an 8% yield, GOS would have interest costs and
dividends not received amounting to Rs 6 to 7 M. Taxes payable by PCS,
RCMS and Federations are insignificant. However, the general sales tax is
applicable in all States. Therefore, a 4% tax (estimated at Rs 10 M) would be
levied on all building materials used in godown construction. Most fertilizer
and produce handled by the Project entities would also be taxed at the same
rate. The incremental tax on fertilizers and farm produce is estimated to
grow from Rs 4 M in year 2 to Rs 20 M in year 5. Costs incurred in the form
of grants (in Orissa) and dividends not declared in initial years would,
therefore, be quickly recovered through sales taxes.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Rate of Return
7.01      The Project would make fertilizer and other farm inputs available
in the immediate vicinity of large numbers of farmers who do not have the
transport facilities to collect these over long distances. It would also
allow farmers to deliver their excess produce to the local PCS close to their
farms instead of to the more distant market center towns. Transport services
provided by the cooperatives would allow use of more efficient methods of
transportation and provide cost savings by way of economies of scale which are
particularly critical for small farmers. Typically, savings would arise from
use of truck transport instead of individual bullock cart transport and would
amount to about Rs 4 per ton/kilometer. For the typical PCS, the average
benefit would total about Rs 28 per ton (about 2% of the value of fertilizer
and produce handled).
7.02      Economic benefits would be obtained also by the avoidance of losses
of farm produce and fertilizer through storage in the new cooperative godowns
and stores. The Project facilities would save about 2% of the farm produce
and fertilizer handled annually by the PCS, which without the Project would
have been wasted. It is generally accepted that by providing secure storage
for foodgrains, the average loss of stored grain can be reduced from 6.0% to
about 3.5% (wheat, 12 months' average). 1/
7.03      In the economic analysis calculations, full account has been made
of the economic value of Project investment and operating costs. In calcu-
lating these costs, a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.8 has been applied to
all domestic expenses. For unskilled labor, a shadow wage rate of 50% of
market value has been used to take into account the high levels of rural
unemployment and underemployment in the Project States. Salaries of semi-
skilled and skilled technical and administrative personnel are costed at
market rates. The economic prices for traded goods are based on their border
1/   IBRD:  Second Foodgrain Storage Project Report, 1643 A-IN, Annex 4.                   6



- 33 -
prices at the official exchange rate, and 20 years is assumed to be the Proj-
ect life (this being the average life of the principal assets created). Based
on the foregoing assumptions, the economic rate of return is estimated at 22%.
The cost and benefits streams are as follows:
Years              1       2      3       4       5        6      7-20
(Rs million)
Costs
Project Investments    42.7   88.6   93.4   101.9   107.8   56.5    -
Incremental
Operating Costs          9.1   15.5   22.7    27.5    44.6   53.5   53.5
Benefits
Reduction in
Storage Losses           3.3   10.5   19.1    33.1    49.8   69.7   7% growth
annually /a
Transport Cost
Savings                  3.2   11.2   20.3    34.6    51.7   69.0
Economic Rate of Return:  22%
/a   About half of PCS will reach their maturity in years 6-10, after which
the growth will stabilize.
7.04      The incremental use of farm inputs and corresponding additional
crop production as a result of PCS services, while undoubtedly large, is
difficult to quantify precisely. Accordingly, these indirect benefits have
not been included in the above return calculations. Knowledgeable officials
in the Project areas have, however, estimated that incremental fertilizer use
in the operational areas of new PCS could be as high as 25 to 50% of their
fertilizer sales. In the event that only 10% of the fertilizer handled by
Project PCS is incremental, the net economic value of additional crop could
total more than Rs 250 M annually, thus illustrating the high indirect
benefits of the Project.
Employment Effects
7.04      The Project would have a substantial employment impact.  Godown
construction itself would require 46,000 man-years of employment during the
five year implementation period. About 200 technical staff would have to be
specially employed to prepare subprojects and supervise construction. Once
construction is complete, it is estimated that participating PCS will need
8,000 PCS managers, 6,000 storekeepers and 8,000 watchmen to manage and
handle the new facilities and cooperative business that the Project will
stimulate and facilitate. Through its indirect impact on farm production,
a       the Project would result in substantial additional farm employment (7.04).
It is estimated that this could be as much as 34,000 man-years by Project
year 5.



- 34 -
Other Benefits
7.06      A major but not quantifiable benefit would be strengthening NCDC
as a development finance institution for the cooperative sector not only for
rural storage but also for other agricultural processing, industrial and
marketing type activities. By becoming a stronger and more professionally
oriented organization, NCDC's autonomy would be increased and its dependence
on government contributions would be reduced. The Project would also assist
other participating institutions (SCB, Cooperative Marketing and Primary
Societies, District Central Cooperative Banks and government departments) to
strengthen their capacities and procedures. Thereby, the Project would great-
ly assist in institution building at lower levels which is in accordance with
the GOI policy to create growth centers at the level of Panchayat (20,000-
30,000 people in Uttar Pradesh) instead at Block level as before (about
100,000 people). The Project would thus help promote regionally balanced
development. The cooperatives under the Project provide basic rural services
(supply of farm inputs and storing and marketing the surplus farm produce)
required to support other projects. Examples are Orissa Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (IDA Credit 682-IN), irrigation projects in all Project States
and Small Farmers Development Program in Orissa. A strong cooperative infra-
structure would also complement the work of governmental agricultural extension
officers, closely linking it with farm input supply and marketing facilities.
Project Beneficiaries
7.07      The Project would benefit the members of participating PCS.  These
currently total 5.7 M farm families (31 M  people 1/); 0.5 M in Haryana, 3.9 M
in Uttar Pradesh and 1.3 M in Orissa. Over 65% belong to the categories of
landless, marginal and small farmers (small farmers having less than 5 ha of
unirrigated land, or 2.5 ha of irrigated land). Consequently, a large per-
centage of the Project participants would be part of the 48% of India's rural
population that are considered by GOI to live below the poverty line.
Project Risks
7.08      The technical aspects of the Project are relatively uncomplicated
and although the number of godowns to be constructed is large, implementa-
tion should be manageable given the organizational arrangements outlined in
Chapter V and the strength of the cooperative movement, particularly that of
the implementing agencies in the Project States. Consequently, the risks of
partical or full Project failure are no greater than can be normally expected
with operations of this type in India and acceptable in view of the fact that
the Project benefits would be large and accrue to the cooperative sector and
large numbers of small farmers.
1/   Based on an average family size of 5.5.
69



- 35 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances have been obtained from GOI and NCDC
on the following matters:
(a) building designs, specifications and construction standards
followed for Project godowns would be acceptable to IDA
(4.09);
(b) GOI would make or cause to be made adequate funds available
to NCDC for meeting its Project commitments (4.18);
(c) all documents supporting IDA credit disbursements, against
godown construction, would be retained by NCDC and made
available for review by IDA supervision missions (4.20);
(d) SCB would strengthen their staffing with the type, numbers
and the phasing to be agreed with IDA during negotiations
(5.06);
(e) NCDC and SCB would apply subproject appraisal criteria
agreed with IDA during negotiations, for every loan
application covered under this Project (5.16);
(f)  submission to IDA, periodically of copies of NCDC's and
SCB's annual work programs and budgets, and quarterly
progress reports (5.22); and
(g) terms of lending to SCB and SCB's terms of lending to
Cooperatives would be satisfactory to IDA (5.24).
8.02      Finalization of financial arrangements between GOI and NCDC, accept-
able to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (4.18).
8.03      It is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of
US$1.0 M be made available for disbursements against expenditures incurred
after July 1, 1978 (4.20).
8.04      With these assurances the Project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of US$30 M to GOI.






ANNEX 1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project Tables and Charts
Table                                   Title
1       NCDC:  Comparative Balance Sheets
2       NCDC:  Sources and Application of Funds
3       NCDC:  Loan Disbursements by Channel and Purpose
4       NCDC:  Disbursements During the Fifth Five-Year Plan
5       NCDC:  Projections of Loanable Funds
6       NCDC:  Comparative Income and Expenditure Statements
7       Loan Disbursements by SCB in Project States
8       Loans of SCB Outstanding in Project States
9       Overdues, Bad and Doubtful Debts of SCB in Project States
10       Summarized Statement of Income and Expense for State
Cooperative Banks in the Project States, 1976/77
11       Summarized Balance Sheets of SCB in Project States
as of June 20, 1977
*        12       Statistics on Primary Cooperative Societies in the Project
States
13       Agricultural Production, Fertilizer Use and Storage
Capacity in Project States
14       Project Costs
14.1     Number of Godowns to be Constructed
14.2     Estimated Costs of Godowns
14.3     Project Costs:  Haryana
14.4     Project Costs:  Orissa
14.5     Project Costs:  Uttar Pradesh
14.6     Investments in Vehicles
14.7     Engineering Equipment for Design, Layout and Inspection Work
15       Additional Technical and Professional Staff for the Project
16       Summary of the Employment Effects
Charts
1       Existing Organization, Functions and Staff of NCDC
2       Proposed Organization Chart for NCDC
3       Organization Chart of a SCB
4       Model Design for 50-ton Godown Without Residence
5       Model Design for 100-ton Godown With Residence at Ground Level
6       Model Design for 2,000-ton Godown
7       Implementation Schedule for Construction of 100-ton Godown
8       Implementation Schedule for Construction of 2,000-ton Godown



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Comparative Balance Sheets
(Rs Million)
Assets                   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Fixed Assets               0.8       0.9         0.9       1.9       3.7
Loans to:
State Governments      721.6    729.2         855.4   1,037.1   1,203.9
Cooperative Banks        36.6      56.6        77.8      99.9    107.4
Other Cooperatives        3.0      33.0        14.8      16.2      18.5
Investments              11.2      11.4          9.6       9.8      15.0
Advances to Staff          0.3       0.5         1.0       1.4       1.9
Bond Redemption A/C          -         -         2.0       6.8      14.2
Interest Accrued          16.0      15.9        19.5      27.2      29.4
Prepaid Expenses           8.9       8.1         8.2      10.0      14.3
Bank and Cash Balances    46.0      33.4        44.0      31.6      67.7
Total                   844.4    889.0    1,033.2   1,241.9   1,476.0
Liabilities
NCDC Fund Account        285.6     318.8       355.0    402.6    454.9
Reserves                   4.8       5.3         7.3      13.0      20.6
Loans from GOI           550.0    533.3        608.6    707.2    766.5
Market Borrowings            -      27.5        55.0    110.0    220.0
Other Liabilities          4.0       4.1        7.3       9.1      14.0
Total                   844.4    889.0    1,033.2   1,241.9   1,476.0



IND IA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Sources and Application of Funds
(Rs Million)
1973/74     1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78
Sources
NCDC Fund                                        33.4         33.3         36.2         47,6        52.3
Additions to Reserves and
Retained Earnings                                0.9          0.5          2.1         5.7          7.7
Market Borrowings                                   -         27.5         27.5         55.0       110.0
Other Loans and Advances                         71.7         31.0        129.5       161.8        144.8
Loan and Advance Repayments                      70.3         97.9       108.0          98.7       122.1
Total                                          176.3        190.2        303.3       368.9        436.8
Application
Fixed Assets Expenditure                          0.2          0.0          0.0         1.0          1.8
Investments                                         -          2.0          2.0         5.0         12.6
Loans and Advances                              110.3        156.0       237.6        304.3        299.3
Change in Current Assets/Liabilities             21.3        -15.4          9.4       - 4.8         37.6
Loan Repayments                                  44.5         47.6        54.3         63.4         85.5
Total                                          176.3        190.2        303.3       368.9        436.8
fD, 1



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Loan Disbursements by Channel and Purpose
1973/74 - 1977/78
(Rs Million)
Inputs &
Marketing  Processing  Storage   Other        Total
Through State Governments:
1973/74                           20.7         21.6       27.0       23.9       93.2
1974/75                           14.3         37.7       10.0       20.5       82.5
1975/76                           27.9        121.1       16.1       37.1      202.2
1976/77                           46.0        167.2       17.8       44.6      275.6
1977/78                           62.0        164.2       44.0       10.8      281.0
Sub-total                        170.9        511.8      114.9      136.9      934.5
Through State Cooperative
Banks: _
1973/74                              -         11.8          -        2.2       14.0
1974/75                              -         22.1          -        1.0       23.1
1975/76                              -         23.1          -          -       23.1
1976/77                              -         26.0          -          -       26.0
1977/78                              -         13.1          -          -       13.1
Sub-total                            -         96.1          -        3.2       99.3
Directly to Apex Institutions
1973/74                            1.5          1.1          -          -        2.6
1974/75                              -            _          _
1975/76                            1.5         10.3          -          -       11.8
1976/77                            0.4          1.0        0.2          -        1.6
1977/78                            2.3          0.5        0.0          -        2.8
Sub-total                          5.7         12.9        0.2          -       18.8



ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Disbursements DurinR Fifth Five-Year Plan Period
(Rs Million)
5th Plan
Outlay     1973-74   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77   1977-78         Total
I.  CENTRAL SPONSORED SCHEMES:
1.  Margin Money for Fertilizer  Distribution    153.0           18.7        5.0       29.0      43.4        8.0        104.1
2.  Central Scheme for Development
Cooperatives in Under-developed States         148.5        56.3       5.0        20.5      39.9       45.7        167.3
3.  Assistance to Cooperative Sugar Factories    270.1              -       15.0       55.3      80.0       75.5        223.7
4.  Assistance to Cooperative Spinning Mills          9.0           -        5.0        14.5     24.5        7.0         51.0
5.  Assistance to Cooperative Federations               -           -        1.0         8.0      0.9        2.0         11.6
6.  Assistance to Weavers Spinning Mills                -           -          -         5.5     15.4       22.4         43.2
Subtotal                                       508.6        75.0      31.0       130.7    204.1       160.5       601.2
II  NCDC SPONSORED SCHEMES:
1.  Margin Money & Share Capital to
Marketing Federations and Societies             55.0           -        8.0       19.5      14.6       20.2         62.2
2.  Assistance to Processing Federation               0.4           -          -           -        -        0.4          0.4
3.  Agricultural Crop Processing                     98.6         0.9       29.2       23.7      27.6       22.1        103.4
4.  Fruit and Vegetables Marketing                    9.0           -          -         1.8      1.0        0.5          3.3
5.  Processing Rehabilitation & Margin Money         14.2        11.8          -         6.8        -       10.2         28.8
6.  Cooperative Storage                              67.0           -        9.3        11.3     13.3       40.3         74.2
_1.  Cooperative Cold Storage                          21.6           -         -         4.9       4.9        5.0        14.9
Distribution of Consumer Goods                   26.0           -          -         1.2     12.6       16.5         30.3
-Y   Consumer  Industries                               0.1           -          -           -        -        0.1          0.1
10. Seed Multiplication                              13.5         0.0          -           -        -        1.0          1.7
11. Agro Service Centers                             17.4         3.9        1.4         1.5      1.1        0.2          8.1
12. Agro Chemicals Formulation                        2.0         0.1          -           -        -        0.4          0.5
13. Soil Testing Laboratories                         0.8         0.1          -           -        -          -          0.1
14. Fishery Cooperatives                              9.0           -        0.3         0.7      0.9        1.2          2.0
15. Poultry Cooperatives                             37.6           -          -           -      9.9        0.4          0.5
16. Dairy Cooperatives                                  -           -          -        10.3        -        7.7         27.9
17. Tribal Cooperatives                              21.5           -        3.7         5.1      3.3        9.0         20.9
18. Cooperatives for Hill Areas                       1.0           -          -           -        -          -            -
19. Handloom Cooperatives                            10.0           -          -           -        -        7.7          7.7
20. Cotton Development Scheme                         3.0           -          -           -      0.1          -          0.1
21. Cooperatives for Coir, and  Sericulture           3.0           -          -           -         -       3.0          3.0
22. Technical and Promotional Cells                   3.0         0.5        0.3         0.3      0.3        2.6          1.6
23. Training Programmes                               1.0         0.0        0.1         0.1      0.1        1.8          0.4
24. Assistance for Feasibility Studies                2.1         0.0        0.1         0.2      0.0        0.1          0.5
25. Assistance for Market Surveys                       -           -          -           -         -       0.1          0.1
26. Management Studies                                  -           -          -           -         -       0.2          0.2
27. Publicity                                         2.5         0.3        0.3         0.2      0.5        0.4          1.7
28. Ad hoc Schemes                                   82.2        15.2       24.7        11.8     18.7        0.7         71.2
29. Investments                                         -           -          -        10.0      0.2        5.2         15.4
30. Granular Units                                    7.4         4.0        1.6         0.5      0.4          -          6.5
SUB-TOTAL                                    509.9        36.8       78.7      109.8    109.9       153.6        488.8
TOTAL                                1,090.5       111.8      109.7       240.5    314.0      314.1      1,090.0



ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC:  Projection on Loanable Funds
(Rs Million)
RECEIPTS                              1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83   1983-84
Opening Balance                         31.6       28.5      15.3       29.2       47.1      47.0       20.8
Repayments against loans:
up to Apr. 1   Principal                               120.4      114.0     111.5      121.0      113.0      107.5     102.0
1977         Interest                                88.7       77.0      67.5       61.5       52.5      44.0       36.5
77-78           Principal                                   -       6.3        6.3        7.8      14.2       14.2       14.2
Interest                                   -      15.9       15.4       14.8       14.1      12.8       11.5
78-79           Principal                                   -         -       10.0       10.0      12.3       22.5       22.5
Interest                                   -          -      25.2       24.3       23.4      22.3       20.3
79-80           Principal                                   -         -          -        5.7       5.7        7.0       12.9
Interest                                   -          -         -       14.4       13.9      13.4       12.7
80-81           Principal                                   -          -         -          -        7.1       7.1        8.8
Interest                                   -          -         -          -      18.0       17.4       16.7
81-82           Principal                                   -          -         -          -          -       7.5        7.5
Interest                                   -          -         -          -          -      18.9       18.2
82-83           Principal                                   -          -         -          -          -         -        7.8
Interest                                   -          -         -          -          -         -       19.6
(A) TOTAL:                             240.7     241.7      251.2      288.7     321.3      341.6      332.0
PAYMENTS
Repayments to GOI against
loans up to 1/4/1977:                  131.5     127.0      106.7      101.2      91.8       82.7       76.6
Interest on Market Borrowings            6.4       13.2      18.0       24.0      31.2       38.4       45.6
Administrative Expenses                  8.2        6.5       6.5        6.7        7.0       7.3        7.5
Land and Buildings                       1.7        2.5       0.5          -          -         -          -
Redemption of Bonds                      7.4      14.0       20.0       26.0      34.0       42.0       50.0
Income Tax                              13.7      10.0       11.0       11.5      12.0       12.5      14.0
(B) TOTAL:                             169.0     173.2      162.7     169.4      176.0      182.9     193.7
Difference (A - B)                      71.7      68.5       88.5      119.3     145.3      158.7      138.3
GOI Grants for Special Schemes          48.4      60.0       30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0       30.0
Market Borrowings                      110.0      110.0     100.0      120.0     120.0      120.0      190.0
Funds Available for New projects-    230.1       238.5      218.5      269.3     295.3      308.7     358.3
1/ Excluding borrowingsand NCDC-Fund support from GO; and IDA-Funds.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC:  ComparAtive Income and Expenditure Stat
(Rs Million)
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78
Income
Grants from GOI                   26.3     30.5      30.5     45.5      53.9
Interest on:
Loans                           44.4      45.8      53.2     70.6      88.3
Debentures and Other
Advances                           -      0.4       0.2      0.7       0.2
Bank Accounts                     1.9      2.9       4.3      3.5       2.3
Dividend on Investments            0.5      0.1         -      0.2       0.0
Other Income                      0.5       0.0       0.2      1.9       1.7
Total                           73.6      79.7      88.4    122.4    146.4
Expenditure
Grants to GOS, SCB and
Others                            1.9      0.7       2.6      9.7      11.4
Interest on Borrowing            28.9      31.4     35.4      42.4      54.1
Discount on Bonds                    -      0.3       0.3      0.6       1.1
Administration                     3.0      3.7       4.1      5.1       5.8
Income Tax                        5.0       8.9      7.4       6.0      8.6
Refund of Subsidy to GOI           0.4        -       0.1        -       0.1
Publicity Programs                0.3       0.3      0.2       0.5      0.5
Accrued Expenses                     -      0.6      0.0       4.1       3.1
Transferred to Reserves:
Building/Gratuity                0.9       0.5      0.1       2.0      2.0
Bond Redemption                     -        -      2.0       4.5      7.4
Excess Income to NCDC Fund       33.2      33.3     36.2      47.5     52.3
Total                           73.6      79.7     88.4    122.4    146.4



ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Loan Disbursements by SCB in Project States
(Rs million)
1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77
Uttar Pradesh
Agricultural Purposes        537.0     571.9      674.1      851.2   1,053.9
Other Purposes              631.0      746.1   1,192.2   1,665.2   2,120.7
Sub-Total                1,168.0   1,318.0   1,866.3   2,516.4   3,174.6
Haryana
Agricultural Purposes       264.9      303.5      413.2      415.9     599.0
Other Purposes              389.9      310.1      400.8      494.8     551.0
Sub-Total                  654.8      613.6      814.0     910.7   1,150.0
Orissa
Agricultural Purposes        113.9      95.0      119.8      158.4      168.7
Other Purposes                62.4      77.5      118.3       99.0     299.9
Sub-Total                  176.3      172.5      238.1     257.4      468.6
TOTAL
Agricultural Purposes        915.9     970.4   1,207.0   1,425.6   1,821.6
Other Purposes            1,083.3   1,133.6   1,711.3   2,259.1   2,971.5
Grand Total              1,999.2   2,104.0   2,918.3   3,684.7   4,793.1



ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Loans of SCB Outstandin2 in Project States
(Rs million)
1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77
Uttar Pradesh
Agricultural Purposes          486.9      507.1      559.8      430.7     580.7
Other                          203.5      224.7      269.5      234.1     424.7
Sub-Total                     690.4      731.8     829.3      664.8   1,005.4
Haryana
Agricultural Purposes           75.5       90.4      129.2      121.0     228.1
Other                           77.4       84.5      153.3     140.9      183.6
9            Sub-Total                     152.9      174.9      282.5      261.9     411.7
Orissa
Agricultural Purposes           49.5       43.0       67.7      111.5     144.2
Other                           32.3       45.1       62.0       38.9     131.4
Sub-Total                      81.8       88.1     129.7      150.4      275.6
TOTAL
Agricultural Purposes          611.9      640.6      756.8      663.2     953.0
Other                          313.2      354.3      484.7     413.9      739.7
Grand Total                   925.1      994.9   1,241.5   1,077.1   1,692.7



ANNEX 1
Table 9
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Overdues, Bad and Doubtful Debts
of SCB in Project States
(Rs million)
1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77
Uttar Pradesh
Loans overdue                    20.3       22.6      37.3       19.2       20.6
Demand                            N/A      540.9     638.3      911.6      857.6
% overdue to demand               N/A        4.2       5.9        2.1        2.4
% overdue to outstandings         2.9        3.1       4.5        2.9        2.1
Bad and doubtful debts            6.8        4.7        5.5       8.3        8.5
Provision for bad debts           7.3        7.4       8.3       10.2       11.6
Haryana
Loans overdue                     0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1       18.6
Demand                          631.1      591.6     687.6      931.4   1,018.9
% overdue to demand               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        1.8
% overdue to outstandings         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        4.5
Bad and doubtful debts            0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1
Provision for bad debts           0.8        0.8       1.0        1.4        1.5
Orissa
Loans overdue                    10.1        4.3       4.4        0.8        0.3
Demand                          166.2      129.1     169.8      173.3      287.3
% overdue to demand               6.1        3.3       2.6        0.4        0.1
% overdue to outstandings        12.3       4.9        3.4        0.5       0.1
Bad and doubtful debts            0.4        0.6       0.4        N/A        0.3
Provision for bad debts           0.3        0.3       0.4        0.2        0.3



ANNEX 1
Table 10
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summarized Statement of Income and Expense
for State Cooperative Banks in Project States, 1976-77
(Rs million)
Uttar Pradesh      Haryana      Orissa
Income
Interest                       108.4            44.2        22.8
Other                            0.4             1.8         0.5
Total                         108.8            46.0        23.3
Expenditure
Interest                        77.6            31.8        18.3
Salaries 1/                      5.2             0.9         0.7
Other                           10.5             3.1         2.1
Profit                          15.5            10.2         2.2
Total                         108.8            46.0        23.3
Percentage of:
Profit to Gross Income          14.2            22.2         9.4
Salaries etc. to Profit         33.5             8.8        31.8
Expense to Gross Income         85.8            77.8        90.6
1/ Including Provident Fund Contributions and Travelling Allowances.



ANNEX 1
Table 11
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets of SCB in Project
States as at June 30, 1977
(Rs million)
Uttar Pradesh   Haryana   Orissa
Liabilities
Share Capital                            74.0          24.2       16.0
Reserves                                 98.6          32.8       20.5
Deposits                              1,046.6         286.6      154.6
Borrowings:
R.B.I.                                 115.3         204.1      138.8
Government                              18.2           0.2        0.2
NCDC                                    16.5          18.6        2.5
ARDC                                    10.0           9.9        7.2
Other Liabilities                        61.5           7.2        6.1
Profit and Loss A/c                      15.5          10.2        2.2
TOTAL                                1,456.2         593.9      348.1
Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                  135.5         107.6       16.1
Investments                             297.4          46.6       50.8
Advances:
Short Term                             875.6         310.0      144.9
Medium Term                             57.2          63.1      122.3
Long Term                               72.7          38.5       10.3
Interest Receivable                      6.1          23.9        1.0
Other Assets                             11.7           4.1        2.7
TOTAL                                1,456.2         593.9      348.1



X                                               INDIA                                                        0
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Statistics on Primary Cooperative Societies in the Project States
Haryana             Uttar Pradesh          Orissa       Total
Number of Cooperative Primary
Societies, June 1976                       2,409                12,994                 3,358    18,761
Number of Societies, May 1978               2,168                 8,002                 2,745    12,915
Target Number of viable
Societies 1/                               2,200                 8,000                 2,500    12,700
Number of Societies owning
Godowns                                      600                 3,200                 1,800      5,600
Number of Society Godowns to be
crnstructed under the Project              1,500                 4,600                1,040      7,140
Number of Members in all
Societies (Million)                          0.8                   7.0                   2.2       10.0
Number of Members in Project
Societies (Million) 2/                       0.5                   3.9                   1.3        5,7
1/ RBI's and Cooperative Departments' target, based on surveys on viability and potential
of cooperatives after amalgamating them into bigger units.
2/ Calculated by using the current average memberships and number of Societies for which
godowns are to be constructed under the Project.                                                                1 M
a J
NH 



INDTA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production Fertilizer Use and Storage Capacity in Project States (on bipnnial intervals)
(Quantities in million tons)
---------------- Actual -----------------             -------------- Projections -------------
1972/73           1974/75           1976/77           1978/79            1980/81            1982/83
Production of Foodgrains
- Haryana 1/                                4.07               3.34              5.26              5.40               5.80              6.60
- Uttar Pradesh 2/                         18.13              16.33             19.52             21.20              22.10             24.10
- Orissa 3/                                 4.80               3.97              5.95              6.60               7.40              7.95
Use of Fertilizeis (material)
- Haryana 4                                 0.23               0.17              0.30              0.41               0.58              0.73
- Uttar Pradesh 5/                          1.12               1.02              1.05              1.95               2.37              2.85
- Orissa 6/                                  N/A               0.12              0.15              0.27               0.38              0.51
Estimated Storage/Transportation
requirement 7
- Haryana                                   1.45               1.20              1.85              1.95               2.15              2.55
- Uttar Pradesh                             4.00               3.65              4.30              5.00               5.30              5.90
- Orissa                                     N/A               0.85              1.20              1.40               1.60              1.80
Cooperative Storage Capacity;
Federations and RMCS 8/
- Haryana                                   0.04               0.08              0.10              0.15               0.24              0.32
- Uttar Pradesh                              N/A                N/A              0.16              0.17               0.19              0.21
- Orissa                                     N/A                N/A              0.06              0.10               0.14              0.19
Cooperative Storage, percent
of the total requirement
- Haryana                                     2.7               6.7               5.4               7.7               11.2               12.5
- Uttar Pradesh                              N/A                N/A               3.7                3.4               3.5                3.6
- Orissa                                     N/A                N/A               5.0               7.1                8.7               10.5
Village Level Cooperative
Storage 8/ 9/
- Haryana                                    N/A               0.09              0.10              0.11               0.16               0.21
- Uttar Pradesh                              N/A               0.10              0.20              0.35               0.50               0.67
- Orissa                                     N/A               0.10              0.11              0.12               0.15               0.20
1/ Annual growth about 4% from 1976/77-1982/83.
2/ Annual growth 4.4% from 1976/77-1980/81.
3/ In Orissa the production in 1976/77 is an estimate.  The projected growth from 1976/77-1982/83 is over 5.5%/year.
4/ Annual growth about 17%.
5/ For 1977/78 estimated at 1.75 million tons. The growth between 1977/78-1982/83 about 10% annually.
6/ Annual growth about 15%.
7/ The assumptions are the following (as obtainted from the state agricultural authorities in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh)  Due to                 - 
seasonality the peak stock of fertilizers is about 40% of the annual sales.  The produce storage peak is about one third of   
the foodgrain production in Haryana and about 20% in Uttar Pradesh.  For Orissa, the Uttar Pradesh percentage has been used.
8/ Projections include the new godowns planned under the Project.
9/ The village level godown capacity has not been added up with the cooperative "wholesale" storage, because they are only
partly complementary.



NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project Costs
(Re Million)
1            2             3             4             5             6
Construction of Godownasl                 1978/79       1979/80       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84            Total
In haryana (Table 14.3)
HATED                                     8.1          12.1          12.2          10.8          10.0           4.6               57.8
Primary Coop. Societies                   6.9          13.7          13.7          13.7          13.7           6.8               68.5
Subtotal                              T5235 T-27
In Orissa (Table 14.4)
OSCHF                                     0.5           1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0           0.5                5.0
Regional Coop. Marketing                  1.6           3.5           3.9           4.6           4.9            2.3              20.8
Societies                                                                            0
Tribal Development Coop.                  0.6           0.9           0.6           0.3             -             _                2.4
Corporation
Primary Coop. Societies                    4.4           7.5           7.2           9.3          11.2           5.7              45.3
Godovn Rehabilitation                     0.7           1.5           1.5           2.2           1.5           0.8                8.2
Subtotal                               7.8          i.T                                                      TT T7.
In Uttar Pradesh (Table 14.5)
PCF                                       1.4           2.9           2.9           2.9            2.9           1.5              14.5
Primary Coop. Societies                  22.0          43.9          44.0          44.0          44.1           22.0             220.0
Subtotal                              23.4          46.8          46.9          4694-7.0O                   23.5              2~34.5
Technical Assistance                         0.7          0.8             -             -             _             _                1.5
Vehicles (Table 14.6)                        2.0           1.1          0.5           0.5            0.5           0.3               4.9
Engineering Instruments (Table 14.7)        0.1             -             -             -             -             _                0.1
Total Base Costs                         49.0           88.9          87.5          89.3          89.8          44.5             449.0
Physical contingencies 5%                 2.4           4.4           4.4           4.4            4.5           2.2              22.3
Price contingencies 2/                    1.7           6.2          11.4          18.7           25.1          15.5              78.6
Total Costs                               53.1          99.5        103.3         112.4          119.4          62.2             549.9
1/ For the number of godowns, see Table 14.1.
2/ The base prices are from mid-1978. The price contingencies representing price increases have been added by using the following
estimated inflation rates, compounded annually:  1978/79, 3.5% (half of the project costs for the 1st year will be used before
end 1978); 1979/80, 7%; 1980-82, 6.5%; 1983/84, 6%.
I-.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Number of Godowns to be Constructed
__________-_----- Year ---------------------
1         2          3         4         5          6      Total
Haryana
HAFED 1/                               10        15         15        13        12         5           70
Primary Cooperative Facilities
-  50 tons                             50       100        100       100       100        50          500
- 100 tons                           100        200        200       200       200       100        1,000
150       300        300       300       300      150        1,500
Uttar Pradesh
PCF 1/                                3-4       7-8        7-8       7-8       7-8       3-4           35
Primary Cooperative
Societies
-  50 tons                           100        200        200       200       200       100        1,000
- 100 tons                            360       720        720       720       720       360        3,600
460       920        920       920       920       460        4,600
Orissa
OSMCF 1/                                2       4-5        4-5       4-5       4-5       2-3           23
Regional Marketing
Coop. Societies                        25        50         55        65        65        20          280
TDCC                                 1-2        2-3        1-2         1         -         -            6
Primary Cooperative
Societies and LAMPS
-  50 tons                             10        16         10        14        20        10           80
- 100 tons                             95       159        155       201       240       120          970
105       175        165       215       260       130       1,050
Rehabilitation
Societies                            100        200        200       300       200      100        1,100            3 >
1/ The annual number of godowns which may differ from these figures, are calculated by dividing
annual tonnage to be constructed by the average size of godowns.
^                                        ^                                                       *~~~~~~f



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Estimated 1978 Costs of Godowns 1/
(Rupies)
Hodel                                           Construction Cost   Cost of               -
Type    Model Description       Roof Type 2/  Cost of  Cost of       Water      Land        Total Cost          Remarks
Godown Residence SupplyO 3
Al   50 MT Godown (without  Asbestos                                                                      Godown consists of one
residence)            Cement Sheets                                                               room 18'x21', one room
on Steel Truss   22000           -     2000       1000         25000        12'xlO', and one lobby
6'xlO'
A2   50 MT Godown (with          - do -         22000      12000     2000        1000        37000        Residence is Isame as,for
residence)                                                                                          Model-type B4, adjacent
to Godown and on ground
level
Bl   100 MT Godown            Reinforced        42000          -     2000       2000         46000        Godown consists of two
(without residence)    Concrete Slab                                                                rooms each 19'x16.5',
two rooms each lO'x12',
and one lobby 14'x8'
B2   100 MT Godown (with         - do           42000      12000     2000       2000         "8O0Q    Residence above Godown
residernce)                                                                                          consists of rooms for
livinig-sleeping, dining,
kitchen, terrace and W.C,
B3   100 MT Godown            Asbestos          37000          -      2000       2000        41000        Decrease in coaL because
(without residence)    Cement Sheets on                                                             of Asbestos Cemi-ttype
Steel Truss                                                                 roof
B4   100 MT Godown (with        - do -          37000      12000      2000      2,000        53000        Residence oh groljnd levFA
residence)                                                                                           adjacee .eo Co iu.
C    250 MT Godown            Asbestos          58500                 2000       4000         66500 5/   Godown consists '.F one
(without residence)    Cement Sheets                                                                room 51.25'x30'
on Steel Truss
D    2000 MT Godown           22 gauge         462500          -      4000       50000       540500 4/   Internal area of Godown
(without residence)    corrugated                                                                   would be 70'xl74'
Steel Sheets
on Steel
Truss (70'span)
1/  The cost estimates are for Haryana and Uttar Pradesh States.  Costs in Orissa may average 15 percent lower
because of lower cost of labor and land.
2/  A reinforced concrete slab roof is recommended for minimum storm damage, less corrosion and more effective
fumigation.  Slab construction is essentialwherea living quarters is provided above the godown.
3/ Potable water would be provided for laborers and for bullocks, and would be available for the society members.
4/ Includes Rs. 24,000 for boundary fence.
5/ Includes Rs. 2,000 for boundary fence.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project Costs: Haryana 1/
(Value in Rs millions)
______________________------ Year -------------------------
1          2           3          4           5           6         Total
HAFED
Godowns - Capacity tons            30,000      45,000     45,000      40,000      37,000      17,000     214,000 tons
- Rs. M.                     8.1       12.1        12.2        10.8        10.0        4.6        57.8
PCS Godowns
50 tons units: - tons              2,500       5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000       2,500      25,000 tons
- Rs. M.             1.3        2.5         2.5         2.5        2.5         1.2        12.5
Residences Rs. M. 2/                0.4         0.8        0.8         0.8         0.8         0.4        4.0
Rs. M.                    1.7         3.3        3.3         3.3         3.3        1.6        16.5
100 tons - ton                    10,000      20,000     20,000      20,000      20,000     10,000      100,000 tons
- Rs. M. 3/                4.4        8.8         8.8         8.8        8.8         4.4        44.0
Residences Rs. 2/                   0.8         1.6         1.6        1.6         1.6         0.8        8.0
Rs. M                     5.2       10.4        10.4        10.4       10.4         5.2        52.0
Total Rs. M.                        15.0        25.8       25.9        24.5        23.7        11.4      126.3
1/ Excluding contingencies
2/ About 2/3 of the societies are estimated to need a residence for the manager costing Rs. 12,000.
3/ Two thirds of these units are estimated to have roofs of reinforced concrete slabs, one third of wooden
trusses and asbestos sheets.
M >4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I



ANNEX 1
Table 14.4
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project costs: Orissa 1/
_________________--- Year ------     - --------
1        2         3         4        5         6      Total
New Godowns
OSCMF
- Tons                    2,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    2,000   20,000 tons
- Rs. M.                   0.5       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       0.5  Rs. 5.0 M
Regional Cooperative
Marketing Societies
- Tons                    6,000   13,500   15,000   17,500   19,000    9,000   80,000 tons
- Rs. M.                   1.6       3.5       3.9      4.6       4.9       2.3  Rs. 20.8 M
Tribal Development
Cooperative Corporation
_ Tons                      2,500    3,750    2,500    1,250        -        -       10,000 tons
Rs. M.                   0.6       0.9       0.6      0.3       -         -    Rs. 2.4 M
Primary Cooperative
Societies and LAMPS
50 Tons
- Tons                       500      800       500      700    1,000        500    4,000 tons
- Rs. M.                   0.2       0.3       0.2      0.3       0.5       0.3  Rs. 1.8 M
- Residences 2/             0.06     0.11      0.06     0.09      0.12      0.06 Rs. 0.5 M
Rs. M.                   0.3       0.4       0.3      0.4       0.6       0.4  Rs. 2.4 M
100 Tons
- Tons                    9,500   15,900   15,500   20,100   24,000   12,000   96,000 tons
- Rs. M. 3/                 3.5      6.0       5.9      7.6       9.1       4.5  Rs. 36.6 M
- Residences Rs. M 2/       0.6      1.1       1.0      1.3       1.6      0.8  Rs. 6.3 M
Rs. M.                    4.1      7.1       6.9       8.9     10.6       5.3 Rs. 42.9 M
Rehabilitation Godowns 4/  0.7        1.5       1.5      2.3       1.5       0.7  Rs. 8.2 M
Total Orissa                7.8     14.4      14.2     17.5      18.6       9.2 Rs. 81.7 M
a Excluding contingencies.
2/ About 2/3 of the societies estimated to need a manager's residence costing
Rs. 10,000.
3/ Two thirds of them are estimated to have roofs of reinforced concrete slabs,
one third of asbestos sheets.
4/ At the average cost of Rs. 7,500 as in the original proposal.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project costs: Uttar Pradesh 1/
------------ Year ------------------------------                              Total
1             2             3             4             5             6
PCF godowns
- tons                     5,000        10,000        10,000        10,000         10,000        5,08"    50,000 t
- Rs. M                     1.4           2.9           2.9            2.9           2.9          1.5   Rs 14.5
Primary Cooperative
Societies' godowns
50 tons
- tons                     5,000        10,000        10,000        10,000        10,000         5,000    50,000 t--s
- Rs. M.                    2.5           5.0           5.0           5.0           5.0           2.5       25.0
- Residences Rs. 2/         0.8           1.6           1.6           1.6            1.6          0.8        8.0
3.3           6.6           6.6           6.6           6.6           3.3       33.0
100 tons
- tons                    36,000        72,000        72,000        72,000        72,000        36,000   360,000 t ,S
- Rs. M. 3/               15.8           31.6          31.7          31.6          31.7          15.8      158.2
Residences Rs. 2/           2.9           5.7           5.7            5.8           5.8          2.9       28.8
Rs. M.                18.7           37.3          37.4          37.4          37.5         18.7      187.0
Total U.P. Rs. M.            23.4          46.8          46.9          46.9          47.0          23.5      234.5
1/ Excluding contingencies.
2/ Two thirds of the societies are estimated to need a manager's residence costing Rs. 12,000.
3/ Two thirds of these units are estimated to have roofs of reinforced concrete slabs and one third of asbestos
sheets.
M
H 
z



ANNEX 1
Table 14.6
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Investments in Vehicles
---------------Year-----------------    Total
1     2      3     4      5    6
Motor vehicles 1/
No.            25     8      -     -      -    -              33
Rs.'000     1250   400       -     -      -    -   Rs.1,650,000
Scooters 2/
No.           110    36      -     -                         146
Rs.'000       550   180      -     -      -    -   Rs.  584,000
Bicycles 3/
No.           815  1595  1585  1735  1680  840             8,250
Rs.'000       245   478   476   520   504  252   Rs.2,475,000
Rs.'000      2045  1058   476   520   504  252   Rs.4,855,000
1/ Four-wheel drive vehicles, or when conditions allow, motor cars for
the state and divisional level engineering supervisors(3 for NCDC
zonal offices; 4 for the SCB's state level offices; 26 for the
divisional level offices: at the maximum cost Rs.50,000 each.
2/ For all field Project Development Officers (46) and Engineering
Supervisors (100); at the cost of Rs.5,000 each.
3/ For all societies with a new or rehabilitated godown: Rs.300 each.



ANNEX 1
Table 14.7
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Engineering Equipment for Design,
Layout and Inspection Work
Number of Equipment Items             Unit Cost   Total Cost
Haryana  Orissa  U.P.  Total                Rs.          Rs.
1. Dumpey level and
levelling rod 1/            6        6      12      24              2490        59,760
2. Prismatic compass l/        6         6     12      24               165          3960
3. Drawing boards              2         3     3       8                415          3320
4. Drawing instruments 2/    2           3     3       8                290          2320
5. Plumb bob 3/               18        26    58    102                  20          2040
6. Spirit level 3/            18        26    58    102                  40          4080
7. Iron square 3/             18        26    58    102                  40          4080
8. Measuring gauge 3/         18        26    58    102                  20          2040
9. Measuring tapes
(30 and 2m) 3/            18        26    58    102                  125       12,750
Total funds needed         94,350
1/ For the divisional level Assistant Engineers in the Federations and SCB.
2/ For the Executive Engineers' offices at the State level (and TDCC in Orissa).
3/ For the construction inspectors (Engineering Supervisors), who will carry
this equipment with them to the construction sites.



ANNEX 1
Table 15
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Additional Technical and Professional Staff
for the Project
X . He  g0
Ai    0. 0S                     
0 w > r        -n
K&F-E 01               1       2  
J.hO   0     0     0             -H0O
W~~~Gj  0)             0  m 
00 -q  "I'.4   9  ci 0cCr  4JW  .740
S 4     44V ) 0    $ 4    wI.    P.aQ2
S  -42/  1  8   2J14                  12
O'44   0~4.40 cJ    )0     50      C
NCDC
Delhi Office              1                      1
Zonal Offices (3)         3
Utar  Prad
APFED 1/                                         1      2        6
SCB   /8                                 2       1      4       12
Orissa
OSCMT 1/../                                             1        2
TDCC  2/                                                6 1      -
SCB   I/ 
- for  oCowsf and PCSs            8      2    isco4             15
- for Rehabilitation              6      1       1      2      7-8
Uttar Pradesh
PCF   1/../                                             1        3
SCB                       2      24      4       1     11       55
Total                            46      9       5     26     100
1/ In the Federations the suggested annual planning and inspection task would be
5-7 godowns for an Assistant Engineer and inspection of 2-3 godowns'
construction for an Engineering Supervisor (Junior Engineers).
2/ In the SCB an Assistant Engineer would scrutinize the drawings and start (and
partially inspect) 65-80 godowns per year, and an Engineering Supervisor check
construction of 17-20 godowns from start to completion. A Project Development
Officer would initiate 33-50 godowns a year and later monitor the problem
societies' progress.
S            This efficiency will be achieved if there is one Assistant Engineer in each
division, one Engineering Supervisor in each district and one Project
Development Officer for one or two districts depending on the workload.
3/ The planning and inspection need in the TDCC is below 2 godowns a year.
4/ The Federations and Orissa SCB already have one Executive Engineer on their
staffs.



ANNEX 1
Table 16
INDIA                                                 0
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summary of the Employment Effects
(Annual Man years)
Haryana   Uttar Pradesh   Orissa   Total
Manpower connected with
eonstruction
project officers and junior
development officers of SCB 1/                     9            26            15       50
banking staff of NCDC/SCB 1/                       3             5             4       12
technical staff of SCB/Federations 1/ 2/          26            71            34     131
construction workers 3/
- skilled                                       650         1,550           450   2,650
- unskilled                                   1,400         4,200           900   6,500
Total during Project implementation            2,088         5,852         1,403   9,343
period
Business operations of cooperatives 4/
PCS managers                        -          1,500         4,600         2,240   8,340
store keepers                                  1,070         3,635         1,270   5,975
watchmen                                       1,640         4,670         1,650   7,960
Total annual staff                             4,210        12,905         5,160  22,275
Incremented harvesting labor 5/                9,000        20,600        4,800  34,400
1/ See Table 15 ("Additional Technical and Professional Staff for the Project"').
Part of this staff would become permanent, as similar needs would appear also
in the future.
2/ Technical staff would be employed for 5 years, but at least a half would likely
be needed also later for similar tasks.
3/ The construction workers are employed by the contractors and they would be needed
for 5 years. To get illustrative employment figures, year 2 has been selected as
an example. The following averages and typical cases have been used:
- small godowns: 20 men/women for 3 months; one third of them are skilled workers.
- 2,000 ton godowns: 60 men/women for 6 months; one third of them are skilled
workers.
4/ At the time when all godowns scheduled have been constructed. Each PSC would
have a manager and a watchman and the 100 ton godowns also a store-
keeper. All Federations' and other large godowns would have a storekeeper and
two watchmen.
5/ In the fifth year.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
EXISTING ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS AND STAFF OF NCDC
M.ANAGI NAG-IECTO
DDNGOIDTDN PIDNTTGANDPODACTDPPOISD  GAG- DIO
TrogNIIs             *FI.I,',T                 AIIIIdlgs andT       Pan  F,TTA               OtTADTI             DTOv  sIISM             I',luD,TgIT            LIDIDT1ITT           IT, Suc  FTTTDTTT.IDTTA                        TDTQD FomlRn  nul tF   n        rdlngShm   Pmongo   omlAItTATATTI  DTDDTlTT'g .T dD TD.C  AT,dlqtdudT
*DATTT                  FT,Dlsma  Cn                                               l DTDIm n g  *A T.   D.,T.D    DATDA _         l.     s G ,FeqT.I[lucH PlI,.u 11t e.s1zt  rQ9 FIIT'TII  ATAITATTA.  AkDI. FlAIlb    1 TIDDA        FTTTSeudAI              F>OI TEIIDr ACOT    oDTT3TTTdTTD          *ADTI DdD
.Ard ATTTTTT.TDTDILT                        STT  TITTITIT           ATlp  gSrvc   .rdl srvo   rvDm  SamTD  TA-IA,,  DATi  D ITTTI DeATAo     Tt  aPd: F-A  DmTn,Tn TTTDATTTTDTT                              TTTANTFTIAT OV*MngsTT           guBdlATv
DDDFF                  DTAD F                  DTADf               DSTAF                    STAFF                STAFF                   DTAFF                  STAfE                DTAFF                    DTAD r                STAFF                   SADFF                 DTADF                  STAFF
R oIDIiDTT oa ATe        D,T.DTIL               EtA x,TTDTTT  F       DIt,DT-nDT 1e          TTDITFTII C D,.fI t   MICoaula tDl J D rlor 171  Tm,TID,[I  ANTI ID TIECXOI  (11 D rffI> )   DD-TTDAAIAI  At TIDT F.  AItAA              01 TTDTD-               GT      T      1      D fTTAT]       n      c T1TDADAAs - -11
DAsst rDO 1            A ATG[IAD TTD            DAF  I A TT  z    ITT]  DATDASLs O rzTD, 2'   D   TIL            f FITITAT DT              D A ,ItD ,,TA.      P                       DDD T         A                 D              DDDT AD DT11D    D  1DAuTV DDecTTTDIDT.1T        C   t DAIA DIDDTTDTA
' T A F F   S T4 nF                                                  S T A F F ST                                    A F I               I TAqF ST               A F F -UD PO (R   n k   ST 8tF   S U rP O n l9   S T { r   S U P P O m 9   SR 8fF   ro g ram   O   r2                 m   tA D T !2 '



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart for NCDC
General Council
I 
Borad of Management
Managing Director
| Managing                                                                                                                    Gen l          M
Director's Office   |Manager                                                                                                                         a
ZAmanager          & GD                                    Manager
1Ad ministration   -    ~-  -_ -   -   -   -m                          iace
& Methods   |                                                                                                   l    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Storage   
Proec                                                           Adin           ; Gen               NCDC                                                    |     Manager        
Evaluatn                                                          Services                     Accounts                                                       Processing            I
Management|Personnel                                                                           Operational                                                      Manager
Audit                                                         & Training                     Accounts                                                       Industries
Spcilist                                                              Legal                        Budget &                                                        Manager
Management                                    ~~~~~~~Development 
{    Relations  l  l  Liaison  |   |   Coordination               o   BManagers   19246
World Bank -19246                                               |t 



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Haryana State Cooperative Bank
Board of Directors
Managing Director
Deposits                                               Loan                               Establishment                           Development &                                           Training &
Dept.                                                Debts                                   Debt                               Planning Dept.                                        Inspection Dept.
(Dy. Gen. Mgr.)                                      (Dy. Gen. Mgr.)                         (Dy. Gen. Mgr.)                         MyV Gen. Mgr.)                                        (Dy. Gen. Mgr.)
MnerManagers                                                                              Establi,shment                            Managers                                               Managers
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa                                                              Of E    rsEg     
Savings     |      m      ;    7              Cash                       ]    Spshcial                                    Poiis&Training                                                         _
Bank _ Cr~~~~~epoitPrcdes _Center_
r                                      r                          X;v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scee
Funds  Term                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Research &                             Inspection
Maintenance          Finance                          Rehab Cellsisisiiso
Term  _                 ~~~~~~Internal|X
Ast   aaesAsst. Managers                                                                    EstablishmenAst                          Asst. Manae                                           Sr. Acc~ountant
Jr. Aoountants                         ~~~~~~~Accountants                     ClrsStatistical At.Faculty Members
TypistssClerks                                                                                  Inspectors             i
StenographersIVStaffStenographer 19
World Bank - 19435



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Al. Model Design for 50-ton Godown without Residence
FRONT ELEVATION                                                      SECTION A-A
A1
GO DOWN
19'x 16.5'
SCAt F
VERANDA            CENTIR
_ _    6. K 1   X    1 2 K 1 0 0                                                                                               rt 01
_ _ _        E     I   F                 5~~~~~~~~CAL F 1/E'' 1' O''
A                                       1
PLAN                                                         VV... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Id B;,,k    19199



ANNEX 1
Th a.rt S
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
B 4. Model Design for 100-ton Godown with Residence at Ground Level
_ ___  <   L  I                                E,.-   F--
SIDE ELEVATION                                            SECTION A-A
FRONT ELEVATION
z                  CZ~~~~~~~~~W
_~~~~~~
CHAMBER                 CHAMBER
FOODGRAIN.              FERTOILZER              KITCHS
_I    C 1s  liaL9" 16-6-         19. 16-,6 r 
D/RS        ID'RS                    BED ROOM
OFFICE       R   0WIE CEVATO           R
rVI~~~ 8', 0"V,  l DE.
L     10' 12'     C OVEREDVERANDA       SHOP
1,10x 12'     VER            L -   F W
-_ J oT d X 5 < . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B EC)
A                PLAN                         0      6    10
sCR LF 3:32 1 0'
Word B.r-k  19200



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
D. Model Design for 2,000-ton Godown
22 GAGE C STEEL SHEETS FOR ROOF COVERING
__.  ^ ~~ t EARTH. FILLING3-  
FRONT ELEVATION                                                                                          SECTION A-A
Lb   _                                  ~~~~~~        ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~117' O"  Al
12ATFO-M 
-6-
r                            I                 II                                         
,V               I        II                                             I,I                                v
I   I                    I        I        I                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCL  /~-I-
I                I                          I         I        I        I        I~~PLAFOR
I               I                                    I  ~~~~~~~~~~~PA  i
I  I                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.l -  90



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Construction of 100 Ton Godown
Time Reserved
Act oln                           for the Action                30               60              90              120             150              180           210
(Days)                    3               6                9               2               1               1              210
1  Land Acquisition1/                  50
2 Tenider Preparation                  10
3 Tender Advertising                   10               _
4  Response to Tender                  20
5 Tender Evaluation                    10
6. Avarld, Sgning of Contract           5
7. Cortitactor's Preparation
for Construction                     8
8. Start of Construction                7                                             _
9. Completion up to Plinth             20
10. Completion up to Roof               45
11. Completion of Constructior,         15
12. Interim Inspections by
the SCB                             --
13 Final Inspection and
Approval                            15
14. Finai Payment to Contractor         45
15  Utilization of the Godown            _.
LI Before this step the godown drawings have
been prepared, the loan applied for and granted
World Bank -19218
'1 c'
|J rt ->



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(For Construction of 2000 Ton Godown)
Time
reserved                                                 Number of Days After Loan Decision
fortshe
a ction
(days)  o       20         40         60         80         100        120       140        160        180         200        220      240
Land Acquisitionl/                             55           * 0--1
Tender Preparation                             15           1-
15-25
Tender Advertising                             10
Response to Tenders                            20
45-55
Tender Evaluation                              10
55-65
Award and Signing of Contract                  10                                  60-67
Contractor's Preparation for Construction       7                                         -75
Start of Construction                           8                                                  75-110
Completion up to Plinth                        35
110 -170
Completion up to Roof                          60                                                                                                  170 -190
Completion of Construction                     20                                                       97                                         17 150-
Pre-payment VVork Inspection each 30 Days      -                                                                                                            190-205
Final Inspection and Approval of Construction  15                                                                                                                        205-235
Final Payment to Contractor                    303
Utilization of New Godown  
1/ It is assumed that before this action a sufficient staff for the Federation Technical Cell has been empoloyed and
the drawings have been completed.
World Bank -19189
rt 
OCx 1-~



ANNEX 2
Page  1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Model Bylaws of PCS and Federations
Model Bylaws of a Primary (Agricultural)
Cooperative Society             1/
Objectives                         Salient Features
*  1.     -    provide short and medium term loans to agriculture
and programs connected with agriculture;
-    procure and distribute agricultural inputs like
seed, fertilizer, pesticide, weedicide and imple-
ments;
-    arrange for the sale of the members' agricultural
produce and products of cottage industry products
*                      at fair price;
-    rent or contract godowns for safe storage of members'
produce;
-    act as an agenct of any cooperative organization for
distribution of seed, fertilizers, etc., and make
recoveries of advances on their behalf;
-    promote thrift and self-help among the members.
Membership Qualifications
2.        Any adult, solvent person can become an ordinary (voting) member
of the society, provided that the person
-    lives or does business in the area of the cooperative
society, or
-    has property in the area, and
-    is not a member of any similar society.
The State Government and State and Central Cooperative Banks also can become
ordinary members of the cooperative society. Contractors or anybody doing
1/   There are slight differences between the model bylaws from State to
State. This presentation describes the Uttar Pradesh case.



ANNEX 2
Page  2
business with the society can become Nominal members (in order to allow
arbitration by the Registrar of Cooperatives without court action).
Decision Making and Management
3.        The highest authority of a society is the General Body.  In case
that the society has less than 250 members, each member has one vote. If
the members are more than 250, groups of 10 members are formed and they elect
a delegate for the meetings of the General Body. There are limitations to
the general voting prerogative. For instance, persons who have commited a
crime, or have accepted any office in the society, or have been loan
defaulters more than six months, and who themselves or whose family members
are engaged in a similar business as the society, are not allowed to vote.
4.        The Management Board consists of maximum eleven members, three of
whom can be appointed by the State Government (RCS). The same restrictions
as for voting in the General Body apply to the membership of the Management
Board. In addition, no Board member can hold a similar position in more
than three societies, neither can the person be a near relative of any other
employed by the society. Decisions in the Board meetings are made by majority
votes, the president having a casting vote. The president is appointed
by the Board among themselves.
5.        The State Government (RCS) participates in the affairs of the Coop-
erative Society by directing amendments to be made in the bylaws of the
society and by arranging audits, inspections and inquiries. It can promote
the society's activities by financial and manpower assistance. If mismanage-
ment or negligence has been found in carrying out the society's activities,
the guilty Board member can be removed, or the entire committee superseded.
Generally, the RCS and his officers supervise that the societies work and act
in accordance with the Cooperative Act and bylaws.
Funds and Distribution of Profits
6.        Funds can be raised by collecting share capital (Rs 20/share) and
admission fees, taking loans and deposits, getting subsidies and grants and
accumulating profits. No member can buy shares for more than Rs 5,000. The
liability of individuals is limited to 10 times the amount of his shares.
The annual profits shall be used as follows:
-    at least 25% to be transferred to a reserve fund;
-    at least 1% to a cooperative education fund;
-    from the remainder can be paid:
-    a dividend to members on their share capital
at a rate not exceeding 9%;                                          6



ANNEX 2
Page  3
a bonus to the members on the amount or volume
of business transacted by them with the society;
contribution to a bad debt fund, building fund,
rural improvement fund or other funds;
donations up to 5% for any charitable purpose; and
a bonus to employees of the society as specified
in each society's bylaws.



ANNEX 2
Page  4
Model Bylaws of a State Cooperative Marketing Federation 1/
Salient Features
Purposes
1.        -    Make arrangements for marketing of agricultural produce
in the State;
supply agricultural inputs such a fertilizers, insecti-
cides, weedicide, implements and consumer goods;
organize processing of agricultural produce and manu-
facturing of farm inputs; and
promote the work of the member cooperative societies.
Membership and Shares
2.        Membership is open to:
-    district-level wholesale societies;
-  cooperative marketing societies;
-    cooperative cold storages;
-    credit and service societies and other societies
which are approved by the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies; and
-    State government.
3.        Every member should pay an admission fee of Rs 5 and buy at least
one share of Rs 500. The Board of Directors may call at any time the members
to contribute to the share capital of the Federation by purchasing additional
shares.
Policy Making and Management
4.        The General Body of the members is the highest authority in all
matters relating to administration of the Federation except when otherwise
provided in the bylaws. The General Body meets at least once a year and
deals, among other things, with the following matters:
1/   There are some differences between the bylaws from State to State.  This
presentation relates to Haryana.



ANNEX 2
Page  5
removal of members of the Board of Directors,
-    consideration of the annual report and accounts and
disposal of profit;
-    fixation of maximum borrowing limits (subject to approval
of the Registrar)
-    amendment of bylaws.
The policy making body is the Board of Directors, which is constituted as
follows:
-    Registrar of the Cooperative Societies or his
nominee;
-    Director of Agriculture or his nominee;
-    Director of Food and Supplies or his nominee;
-    Managing Director of the Federation;
-    a representative of the State Cooperative Bank;
-    one representative for each 10 member societies;
-    any other member nominated by the RCS.
5.        For management purposes there is an Executive Committee consisting
of seven members, viz. the President and Vice-President of the Board of
Directors, the RCS (or his nominee), Managing Director and three directors
appointed by the Board out of its members. The Managing Director, who shall
be appointed by the State Government takes care of the day-to-day management.
The other senior staff belong to a common cadre of the Federation, governed
by its own salary and promotion regulations.
Funds and Borrowing Limits
6.        Capital may be raised by:  (i) issuing shares; (ii) taking loans
from State Government, cooperative banks and with the approval of the
Registrar, from commercial banks and others; (iii) accepting deposits
from members and non-members; (iv) accepting grants, subsidies and other
financial assistance from the Government, other institutions or individuals.
7.        The maximum borrowing limit of the Federation is decided from time
to time by the General Body but it cannot be more than 10 times the capital
of the Federation. Borrowing against trades stock is, however, not subject
to this limit.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Distribution of Profits
8.        Allocation of net profits is decided by the General Body on the
recommendation of the Board of Directors. After making provisions for depre-
ciation on buildings, machinery and other stocks, the net profits shall be
distributed as follows:
(i) at least 10% to the Reserve Fund;
(ii) 10% to Price Fluctuation Fund;
(iii) to the Cooperative Education Fund such a percentage,
not exceeding 5%, as is decided by RCS;
(iv) the remainder may be utilized for one or more of the
following purposes:
-    distribution of dividend on members' shares at
maximum rate of 10%;
-    rebate to members in proportion to their purchases
from the Federation;
-    creation of a building fund, loss adjustment fund or
other funds required by the Federation;
-    charitable purposes a sum not exceeding 9% of the
net profit.
The Powers of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies
9.        The Federation shall prepare and submit to RCS the returns and
statements he requests.  The Registrar is the authority to interpret the
bylaws and Cooperative Act. He can order audits, inspections and inquiries
of the affairs of the Federation. If mismanagement or negligence is found
or suspected, the committees can be superseded by the State government. RCS
can wind up or cancel the registration of the Federation in the event of
unsatisfactory performance in attaining the objectives.



ANNEX 3
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
IDA Fiscal Year                                          Cumulative
and Quarter                  Disbursement             Disbursement
1979    3rd                           -
4th                        2.16
Total                       2.16                      2.16
1980    1st                         0.72
2nd                        1.35
3rd                        1.35
4th                        1.36
Total                       4.78                      6.94
1981    1st                         1.35
2nd                        1.40
3rd                        1.40
4th                        1.39
Total                       5.54                     12.48
1982    1st                         1.40
2nd                        1.53
3rd                        1.53
4th                        1.52
Total                       5.98                     18.46
1983    1st                         1.53
2nd                        1.62
3rd                        1.62
4th                        1.67
Total                       6.44                    24.90
1984    1st                         1.70
2nd                        1.70
3rd                        1.70
Total                       5.10                    30.00
S0



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Subproject Outline and Criteria
Suggested Subprojects Preparation
(Information to be given in tables and brief statements. Narratives to be
kept to a minimum.)
1.   General
-    Borrower, address, identification number, and
associated bank
2.   Background
-    Year of establishment and possible mergers;
-    growth of membership;
-    population within agriculture and ie other occupations;
-    area covered (names of villages, km );
-    agricultural area, irrigated part.
3.   Agricultural Production
-    Agricultural activities in the area--dairy, crops, etc.
and their yield;
-    farm inputs used;
-    agricultural projections in tons.
4.   Storage
-    Available facilities, vertical links with marketing
societies, apex federations, SWC, CWC, FCI, IFFCI,
others;
-    storage available--all private godowns existing within
the area of operation of the society--usage, distance
and ownership.
5.   Operations
-    Present arrangements for handling existing volume of
proposed activities by society;
-    level of ST and MT credit availed;
-    credit record--five years (granted, repaid, overdues,



ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.   The Project
-    Brief description and justification of project
objectives and targets in quantitative terms;
-    reason for selecting project location and land size;
-    choice of godown design and justification for managers'
residence, if any, and special construction changes from
standards if required.
7.   Project Costs
-    Summary of investment costs with quarterly phasing.
8.   Organization and Management
-    Number, names and positions of committee members;
-    qualification, experience, training and salary of
manager/secretary and other employees;
-    implementation schedule with monthly phasing.
9.   Business and Financial Questions
-    Projected business--inputs, crop handling, consumer goods,
credit;
-    borrowing, investment cost, projected cash flow of all
income and repayment items.
10.   Economic and Social Benefits
-    Projections for the number of families participating;
-    land area to be covered by members, landless farmers,
tribals, scheduled castes;
-    social and community development plans of the society.
11.   Project Risks
-    Main sources of risk to the attainment of project
objective.
Covering Page
-    Loan Application Form
Annexes
-    Area Map with PCS Location
-    Bylaws of the Borrower             -    Statistical Tables
3                 -    Godown Specification                -    Financial Forecasts
-    Project Cost Details               -    Cash Flow Statement



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Criteria for NCDC and State Cooperative Bank Appraisal
of Subprojects
A.   General:
1.   Subproject objective to be in keeping with the Development
Credit Agreement between IDA and GOI, Project Agreement
between IDA and NCDC and financial arrangements between
GOI and NCDC.
2.   Willingness of State Cooperative Bank (SCB) concerned to enter
into an agreement with NCDC, subject to Government of State
approval, defining subproject objectives, organization, financ-
ing, and mutual responsibilities and rights.
3.   Cooperative by-laws governing the borrowers and SCB regarding
capital, borrowing powers and objectives to be deemed adequate
by NCDC.
4.   Subproject preparation reports and loan applications to be sub-
mitted by borrowers to be in such form, content and detail as
prescribed by NCDC and agreed with IDA.
5.   Primary Cooperative Societies to be reorganized and amalgamated
as necessary to become viable and acceptable to NCDC as quali-
fied borrowers under the Godown Construction Scheme.
6.   Arrangements satisfactory to NCDC are made by Primary Cooperative
Societies to maintain and improve loan recoveries from members.
7.   Primary Cooperative Societies shall have demonstrated, in the
relevant previous financial year, satisfactory performance in
respect of obligations to SCB or DCB, i.e. have made repayments
in respect of 50% or more of all sums due. In special cir-
cumstances, Primary Cooperative Societies not meeting this
standard could be deemed eligible to participate in the pro-
ject, provided NCDC is satisfied that such Primary Cooperative
Societies have adopted programs which would improve their
financial performance to meet this standard.
B.   Management Criteria:
1.   Organization, staffing, training procedures and facilities of
borrowers are considered by the concerned SCB and NCDC to be
satisfactory.
2.   Organization, staffing, training procedures and facilities of
the concerned SCB are considered by NCDC to be satisfactory.
S



ANNEX 4
Page  4
3.   The Project Coordination Committee in the concerned State
is considered by NCDC to be adequately staffed to function
effectively.
4.   Arrangements for staff continuity in borrowers and SCB are
considered by NCDC to be satisfactory.
5.   Subproject implementation schedules to be in such detail
as to enable close monitoring possible by borrowers, SCB,
NCDC and IDA.
C.   Technical Criteria:
1.   Lands chosen for godown sites should be
(a)  free of encumbrances until loan repayment is completed;
(b) suitable for the type of godown construction and use for
which it is designed;
(c) not subject to flooding and having legal drainage outlet
for rain water;
(d)  easily accessible and served by access roads, or suitable
provision made in the proposal for such roads;
(e) large enough to provide for appertinent facilities and
foreseeable expansion of the godown. A minimum area to
be prescribed by NCDC for each of the different four
models;
(f) available with vacant possession to the borrower prior
to granting of the loan;
(g) not adjacent to objectionable installations, such as
garbage dumps, etc.
2.   Godown construction and appertinent facilities are in accordance
with national standards and designs approved by NCDC in consulta-
tion with IDA and not in conflict with existing construction codes.
3.   Construction works supervision and inspection arrangements
should include employment of qualified civil engineers.
4.   Certification arrangements for progressive contract payments
to be in accordance with instructions issued by NCDC agreed
with IDA.



ANNEX 4
Page  5
5.   Civil works to be carried out by engineering contractors let
on local competitive biddings in accordance with IDA procure-
ment guidelines and local procedures acceptable to IDA.
D.   Financial and Viability Criteria:
1.   Data furnished by borrowers to be adequate to establish
the need for new, additional or improved storage space and
appertinent facilities and probability of full utilization
of proposed investment.
2.   Financial benefits accruing to the borrowing cooperatives
from storage of agricultural inputs, output and consumer
goods and the marketing thereof together with other rental
income should offer a minimum 10% average return (or other
rate as may be agreed between NCDC and IDA) on investment
calculated before deducting any portion of such benefits
passed on to their members.
3.   The financing plan in the subproject preparation report
to include arrangements for working capital requirements
satisfactory to NCDC.
4.   Cash flow projections to permit completion of loan repayment
within fifteen years including the grace period of three
years.
E.   Appraisals by SCB, NCDC and IDA:
1.   All subprojects to be appraised by SCB.  All godowns of 1,000
ton capacity and above, and the first five godowns of each
of different capacities in each participating State to be
subject to NCDC's full appraisal and approval. Subsequent
subprojects to be reviewed by NCDC and approved. IDA will
review a selected number of subprojects during follow-up visits.
2.   Subproject monitoring arrangements to include furnishing
of requested information to and periodical physical super-
vision by SCB concerned, NCDC and IDA.



ANNEX 5
Page  1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project Evaluation and Monitoring
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
1.        The physical component of the Project is based on designs and costs
agreed in advance, and is therefore not too complicated. However, the large
number of units to be constructed as well as the multifarious activities under-
taken by the cooperatives supported under the Project, will require organized
monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, several governments as well as cooper-
ative institutions have to be actively involved in Project implementation and
subsequent operations. Also great hopes are placed on project replicability
not only in storage in other States but also other types of investment in the
Cooperative sector. Monitoring arrangements which were discussed during credit
negotiations are described in Attachment I.
2.        Overall responsibility for Project evaluation would be that of NCDC.
It was agreed during appraisal that a Project Evaluation Unit in NCDC would be
formed in 1978. The Evaluation Unit, headed by an economist and supported by
a statistician and a cooperative specialist would follow up Project implemen-
tation, identify problem areas and deviations from appraisal estimates, assess
effectiveness of the participating institutions and measure subproject impact
on the participating cooperatives, their members, and the farming community
served by the cooperatives. The Evaluation Unit would be independent of all
other departments of NCDC and work in close collaboration with its Management
Audit Department. It would report directly to the Managing Director.
3.        Project evaluation by this Unit would cover physical, technical,
financial, managerial and economic aspects of the Project. It would receive
a major part of information it requires from the monitoring process at the
State level, where the implementation is followed and supervised by the
Project Coordinating Committees, headed by the Agricultural Cooperative
Production or Cooperative Commissioner and including RCS. The following
documents and reports would be relevant for the NCDC's Project Evaluation
Unit and State Project Coordination Committees:
Project Appraisal Report
Development Credit Agreement
Subproject Implementation Schedules
Annual Budgets                        )
Quarterly Progress Reports            )
Draft Annual Accounts                 ) of participating institutions
Annual Audit Reports                  )
Annual Reports                        )



ANNEX 5
Page 2
0
4.        The Unit would make its own arrangements to collect information
and make surveys on impact and effects which are not available from the
normal monitoring procedure. Written evaluation reports, which should be
prepared at least half yearly, would be submitted to IDA. Findings would
be reported to the Project Coordinating Committees in written or oral form.
Information to be collected from the State level, to be summarized and
analyzed should include:
(a) Achievements during the reporting period and deviations
from agreed Implementation Schedules - causes, extent,
effects and action;
(b) Project modifications from original plan - nature, reasons
and effects;
(c) Variations of important assumptions made in the appraisal
report;
(d) Cost overruns and arrangements to meet them;
(e) Profitability and efficiency of the participating
institutions and benefitting cooperatives;
(f) Credit and marketing services to the PCS, by SCB,
Federations and RCMS;
(g) Services to the farmer members by PCS;
(h) Project benefits to communities served by the PCS -
expansion of memberships, employment effects, utiliza-
tion of services.
5.        The NCDC's Project Evaluation Unit would also be responsible for
preparation of the Project Completion Report.
6.        Objectives and key performance indicators of relating Project mon-
itoring and evaluation are tabulated in Attachment 2.



ANNEX 5
Attachmont 1
w                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pagc 
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Arrangements - Reporting Requirements
1.        Each of the participating cooperatives and the State Cooperative
Banks, as well as NCDC would have arrangements for monitoring subproject
implementation and operations. Management at various levels of the respective
institutions will maintain key records, summaries of which would be distributed
internally to executives for information feedback and follow-up action.
Duplication in collating information would be avoided. Attention would be
paid to simplification of reporting and confinement to essential information.
These principles would also be followed in the reporting procedures to be
followed by NCDC in providing information periodically to IDA.
2.        For each level of project organization, reporting would generally
include the following:
(a)  Quarterly progress reports;
(b)  Annual accounts and board report;
(c) Audit report;
(d) Half-yearly review reports;
(e) An annual monitoring and evaluation report; and
(f) Ad-hoc reports on significant developments.
3.        All reports--whether prepared by societies, Federations, SCB or NCDC--
would be made available to IDA review missions. Additionally, the following
reports prepared by SCB and NCDC would be forwarded to IDA:
(a) Annual work programs and budgets not later than two
months prior to commencement of their financial year;
(b) Quarterly project progress reports within one month
of the close of each quarter; and
(c) Audited annual accounts and reports within six
months of the close of their financial year.
4.        NCDC's quarterly progress reports would normally comprise three
main sections, the first part outlining overall progress and problems relative
_       to Project implementation and lending activities.  The second part would be



ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page  2
the report on progress and problems relating to SCB, NCDC Zonal Offices, and
the activities in the Project States. The third part would relate to the
physical progress of the subprojects which would be at varying stages of
development.
5.        The first part of NCDC's quarterly report will eventually contain
basic Project data indicated in para 6. This would be followed by a narrative
report summarizing the highlights of the quarter as indicated in paras 6
through 13. Tables prepared by NCDC and attached to the quarterly progress
report would include information:
(a) subprojects identified during quarter and agreed between
SCB and RCS;
(b) subprojects for which report and loan applications are
under preparation;
(c) subprojects under appraisal by SCB;
(d) progress of appraisal undertaken in previous quarter;
(e) subproject loan applications approved by SCB;
(f)  progress of SCB disbursements on loans approved;
(g) reimbursements by NCDC;
(h) SCB's loan recovery performance;
(i) field visits by SCB and NCDC headquarters staff
during the quarter;
(j) NCDC and SCB board decisions of significance;
(k) changes in senior executive staff of APC, RCS, NCDC,
SCB, Federations and TDCC.
6.   Basic Project Data
Date of Credit Agreement
Date of Credit Effectiveness
Closing Date
Total Project Cost at Appraisal            million
Project Funds Expended to end of Quarter



ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 3
Amount of NCDC Loan Rs                        million
Disbursements as % of Loans
Summary of Progress
(a) Brief summary of progress made during the quarter in respect
to each project component.
(b) Major problems encountered in project implementation, together
with the action proposed to overcome them. Action taken since
last quarterly report. Comments on new developments and the
outlook and forecast for the ensuing quarter.
Management
7.        Report on major changes in the senior executive staff and organiza-
tion of participating institutions.
Project Expenditures and Disbursements
8.        Detail Project expenditures for each Project State, indicating
the main reasons for any significant differences between actual expenditures
9    and those listed in the Credit documentation.
Cooperative Activities
9.        Description on essential cooperative developments in the Project
States, particularly changes in cooperative policies and governmental support.
Brief description of market trends and prices for building materials, farm
inputs and major agricultural crops.
Farm Management
10.       Important trends occurring in farm management policies and practices
as a result of price trends and technological changes. Discussion of any
apparent impact of the Project on the cooperatives' and members' income
and on the manner this incremental income is being spent.
Credit
11.       Assessment of demand for godown capacity in the Project States,
estimate of credit extended by PCS and the credit recovery performance.
Action Taken
12.       Usefulness and impact of specific measures taken to resolve problems
recognized in the previous report.



I
ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 4
Action Proposed
13.       Planned activity to expand project activities and on any actions
required to overcome problems in achieving project objectives.
e



*i                                    ANNEX 5
Attachment 2
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
Responsible Body for
Component               Major Objectives                    Key Indicators                     Monitoring/Reporting
Institution building    Develop NCDC into a more            -organizational restructuring    NCDC's Project Evaluation
of NCDC                  effective development              along the lines of MDI-study        Unit with help of Organization
finance institution for the        and recommendations of IDA         and Methods Unit.
cooperative movement and as         (Annex 1, Chart 2)
a new channel for Bank Group       -implementation of improved
funds                              accounting and management
information systems
-preparation of procedure
manuals
-purchase and use of about
110 sets of engineering and
measuring equipment as in          NCDC's Project Evaluation Unit
Annex 1, Table 14.7                with help of Marketing and
-purchase and use of the           Storage Division and Engineerin
vehicles as in Annex 1,            Section
Table 14.6
if
-disbursement oy IDA and
utilization by NCDC (through
GOI) of US$ 30.0 M IDA credit
for storage lending as
indicated in Annex 4.
Institution Building    Build up the long-term              -Establishment of engineering    At the coordination level, in
of State Cooperative    financing capability of the         cells each with 1-2 executive    all Project evaluation aspects:
Banks                    SCB in Haryana, Uttar              engineers, 4-11 assistant           Project Coordinating Committees
Pradesh and Orissa for             engineers and 12-55 junior          At the operation level:  SCB's
storage and other similar          engineers (Annex 1, Table 16)    Project Officer
development projects               -Employment of Project                            "
Promotion staff each with 1-2
Senior development officers
and 8-24 junior development



Responilble Body !-r
Component                Major Objectives                    Key Indicators                      Monitc .kg/Report  q
officers (Annex 1, Table 16)
-effecting organizational
improvements as recommended by
RBI
-implementing new training and
procedures for processing of
Project loans and loan
administration to be developed
by NCDC and the consultants
(4.12)
-efficiency of the operations    SCB's accounts and statis-
in terms of                        tics units
a) interest rates
b) interest margins
c) debt collection and over-
dues
d) credit expansion
e) savings mobilization
f) increase in loans by type
g) development of own capital
h) staff members and caliber
i) loan numbers and amounts
-statistics on construction        SCB's Project offices
costs of different sizes of
godowns
Activity Expansion by   Expand building space and            -Construction of godowns as in   SCB's Project Officer on
Federations and RCMS    business activities of HAFED,        Annex 1, Tables 14.3 to 14.5        the basis of reports from
PCF, OSCMF, TDCC and RCMS in                                           the Federation and RCMS
order to facilitate their full    -Statistics on cooperative           RCS
and profitable servicing of the   turnover of farm produce and
needs of Primary Cooperative        farm inputs in the Project
Societies.                          States, and the market share
of these institutions
-Quality to be measured by the   RCS, according to a system
statistics on timely deliveries/ to be developed in collabora-
collections and percentage of    tion with the SCB's Project
staff trained in relevant          Officer.
courses.
*                                        *                                                      *t~



0 *                                     Responsible Bo    for
Component                Major Objectives                    Key Indicators                     Monitoring/Reporting
-Annual profitability calcula-    SCB's Project Officer wi
tions of the godowns and total   the help of the Federati
business activities, and           and RCMS
comparisons with relevant
competitors (net profit/ton;
service fees in percent of
commoditv Prices)
Activity Expansion of   Expansion of the office-cum-        -Construction of godowns as          SCB's Project Officer
Primary Agricultural    storage premises of 1,500            in Annex 1, Tables 14.3 to         on the basis of reports
Cooperative Societies   PCS in Haryana, 4,600 in             14.5                               from Junior Development
Uttar Pradesh and 2,140 in                                             Officers in the field
Orissa, in order to facilitate
full and profitable servicing    -Statistics on each PCS turn-         RCS
of farmer members                   over and number/amounts of
-credit and deposits
-farm input sales
-crop agency
-consumer goods
-Membership statistics (amd         RCS
comparison with total popula-
tion of the respective villages)
-Employment statistics              RCS
-Annual profitability calcula-    RCS
tions of the societies and
their different activities
-efficiency of operations in       RCS
terms of
a) interest rates
b) credit/applications
c) repayment statistics
d) service fee (margin)
in fertilizer sales
e) service fee (margin)
in crop agency
f) service fee (margin) in
consumer goods by basic
articles



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Agricultural Cooperative Organizations in India - A Mission
Working Paper.
2.   National Cooperative Development Corporation - A Mission
Working Paper.
3.   Annual Reports of NCDC 1971-77.
4.   Management Development Institute:  Report on Organization and
Management Control System in NCDC.
5.   IDA:  Report of the October/November 1976 Evaluation mission
on NCDC--dated April 8, 1977.
6.   Cooperative Marketing Federations in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh
and Orissa -- A Mission Working Paper.
7.   Annual Reports 1976/77 of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa
Cooperative Marketing Federations.
8.   State Cooperative Banks with Special Reference to Haryana,
Uttar Pradesh and Orissa--A Mission Working Paper.
9.   Financial Analysis of NCDC and SCB for handling the Project.
10.   Forms used in Lending Procedures by NCDC and State Coop-
erative Banks.
11.   Technical Papers and Model Designs relating to the Project.
12.   National Program for Construction of Cooperative Godowns
in the Draft Sixth Development Plan of India (Table).
13.   Pre-Project Actions by NCDC.
14.   Support Material for Economic and Financial Analysis.
15.   Division of Cooperative Members by Farm Size.



IBRD 13776
J  \.. U S S R       U S S R                                                                                                                      AS S R i  so  go  AUGUST 1978
f->~~---.-J-'  Im                                                                        INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN             A3            ,         Zppro0ompIe L,ne of coA,or9                         Project States and Irnplementing Organizations
2   t    fdSojoogar   r                                         PROJECT STATES
-.JAMMU and KASHMIR1                                           *   NCDC' REGIONAL/ZONAL OFPICES
A   HEADQUARTERS OF COOPERATIVE MARKETING FEDERATIONS
0 HEADQUARTERS OF STATE COOPERATIVE BANKS
THIMACHAL'J                                            fd  STATE CAPITALS
.  5  h  (,>PRADESH   |  C                          fD  NATIONAL CAPITAL
Si                   1//                              STATE BOUNDARIES
DoOndigaAhM                      q                     -*-  INTERNATIONAL EOJNDARIES                        3Dt
350                                   KPUNJAB
P A K I S T A  N                                                                                                                              7
g   4   <     j BHUTAN   S   \S>C+94t A< /X
UTTAR  PRADESH   .               A             S IM('To .,
0 RAJASTHAN iJaipur   <>, <X1 k1tAw )ax~~~\~ ~ ~J}SX o 2, -M                                                      NAGALAND
E A < s t7 ,rJ                   KoEooe
:    < -  I $  -   X    0    0                   > a  *tHAR                               >; MPURL~
A AT                            MADHYA  PRADESHWEST                                                   U         MIZOAM
A~~UM
<   '  L X   ,   &      .                  /                  3                         \\<    ~~~~~~~~~~~~B U R Mt A
-2002X~                                                               t1        j            "   ,    g                               \igiXls            2002
MAHARASHTRA              ,                  R7ORISS'A" , 
Araia    Sea                                                                                                                    ANOAdrabd   ,E   ^
\*  C   4  ANDHRA  r~i7                                                              l2Jgg/Wtn, ,'
p=,4 $ 2~~ PRADESH
Gt~~~~~~~~~a C) (ega
KARNATAKAt                  ,/                                                                      .     C
Arabi2n    Seaof<>                           4            X                                                                      &   ANDAMAN
Wart H00  arOaOaOo  A,9
tOt oMt ~OtTAMIL NADU  \l tSI       A
OtaOf                                       S       RSc:By    of  Bengal                           NICOBAR
Of  -2 3                                                                                                              400
0  1?0     29~~Sf0  430     4,01
0   1?0  25    D4?    0
750~~~~ Ki  tOlr                                                                                           3



