CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 871 IN
Project Agreement
(National Cooperative Development Corporation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated February 2, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 871 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called
NCDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that NCDC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by financial arrangements to be entered into between
the Borrower and NCDC, the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to NCDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NCDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NCDC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist NCDC in carrying out the
Project, NCDC shall employ and shall cause participating SCBs to
employ such consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and NCDC.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NCDC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, or caused to be insured, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by NCDC to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NCDC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NCDC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) NCDC: (i) shall maintain and shall cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NCDC and the
Association, NCDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by NCDC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) NCDC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment and any relevant records and documents
pertaining to the Project.
Section 2.06. NCDC shall at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.07. NCDC shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by NCDC of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.08. NCDC shall ensure that only SCBs which satisfy
standards of eligibility mutually agreed between the Association
and NCDC, are permitted to participate in the Project.
Section 2.09. NCDC shall cause a participating SCB to:
(a) apply criteria mutually agreed upon between the Associ-
ation and NCDC in the participating SCB's appraisal of a Sub-
project to be refinanced under the Project;
(b) make a Sub-loan to a cooperative for a Sub-project
proposed to be refinanced by a NCDC-loan under the Project, upon
relending terms and conditions mutually agreed upon between the
Association and NCDC;
(c) furnish to NCDC audited accounts and reports of the
participating SCB with respect to each Sub-project refinanced by a
NCDC-loan under the Project, within six months of the end of each
financial year of the participating SCB; and


﻿-4-
(d) strengthen the staff of the participating SCB in accor-
dance with a program mutually agreed upon between the Association
and NCDC.
Section 2.10. NCDC shall apply criteria acceptable to the
Association, in its review of Sub-projects proposed by partici-
pating SCBs to be refinanced under the Project.
Section 2.11. NCDC shall make loans, from the proceeds of
the Credit, to participating SCBs for the purpose of refinancing
Sub-loans made by participating SCBs to cooperatives, upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.12. NCDC shall make loans, from resources other
than the proceeds of the Credit, on NCDC normal lending terms, to
Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh to be used by Haryana, Orissa
and Uttar Pradesh for adequate capital or grant contributions to
participating cooperatives.
Section 2.13. NCDC shall ensure, through contractual and
other appropriate means, that building designs, specificntions and
other construction standards for civil works in the Project are
acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.14. NCDC shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association the annual work programs, annual budgets and
quarterly progress reports prepared by NCDC and participating SCBs
in regard to Sub-projects, as soon as those documents become
available.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NCDC
Section 3.01. NCDC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NCDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. NCDC shall, in respect of the Project: (i)
have its accounts ard financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of NCDC and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of NCDC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NCDC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the partias contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NCDC:
National Cooperative Development Corporation
Eros Apartments
56 Nehru Place
New Delhi - 110019
Cable address:                      Telex:
COPCORP                            3559 ND
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NCDC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as NCDC shall


﻿-7-
designate in writing, and NCDC shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Nani A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   Civil Works
Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
B.   Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment and vehicles shall be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding or through prudent shopping in accor-
dance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
C.   Technical Assistance
Technical assistance services shall be procured in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
With respect to all procurement decisions, copies of invita-
tions to bid, specifications, evaluations, contracts and other
relevant procurement documents need not be submitted to the
Association, but NCDC shall cause the said documents to be
retained for periodic inspection by representatives of the
Association.


