Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6e(NV 2 Y >3-
Report No. 5213-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 26, 1984
Industry Department
Energy & Industry Staff
This document has a restricted distribution and ay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1         = Won 799.20
US$1 million = Won 0.79 billion
Wonl         = US$0.00125
Wonl million = US$1,251
Wonl billion = US$1,251,125
FISCAL YEAR
Government and KTDC - January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
FKI        Federation of Korean Industries
KAIST      Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KDB        Korea Development Bank
KCDIC      Korea Development Investment Corporation
KFSB       Korea Federation of Small Business
KIET       Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KTAC       Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC       Korea Technology Development Coporation
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOST       Ministry of Science and Technology
R&D        Research and Development
SMI        Small and Medium Industry
SMIPC      Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
TDR        Technology Development Reserve
1/ As of July 2, 1984



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION .....         ............................................    1
II.  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA ......   2
A. R&D Process and R&D Financing
for Industrial Technology Development ........... ........   2
B. The Macroeconomic Background........... ....... ..............   4
C. Korea's R&D Spending Pattern ....   .........................   5
D. R&D Activities by Industry    ................................   6
E. Nonprofit Research Institutes              .............................   7
F. Manpower Development ......*        .............................. ..   8
G. KTDC and Other Industrial Support Organizations            ...........   9
H. Policy Towards Industrial Technology Development ..........  10
I. The Role of the Bank.......................................  11
III.  THE KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (KTDC) ..........  13
A. Institutional Goals                         ......         ......  13
B. Legal Framework and Ownership              .............................  14
C. Operating Policies and Procedures .....          ....................    14
D. Organization, Management and Staff ........................  16
E. Staff Development and Training ................ 00..* .....  17
IV.  KTDC UNDER THE FIRST TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT . .........  18
A. Lending and Investment Operations ..................0........  18
B. Resource Mobilization .....................................  21
C. KTDC's Loan and Investment Portfolio and Financiai Results   22
V.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND THE BANK LOAN ................... . .. ...  22
A. Project Objectives and Scope ..............................  22
B. Features of the Loan ................... .      ..................  22
C. Financial Aspects and Projections .............. ...........  24
D. Procurement and Disbursement ..............................  28
E. Accounts and Audit .         ...................................  29
F. Project Justification and Risks              ...........................  29
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..... ..........................  30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Korea in
February 1984. Mission members included Messrs. Y. Suzuki (Mission Leader),
0. Issa and E. Njomo (World Bank), and Y. Lee (Consultant).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. I;s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Page No.
1. Selected Statistics on Research and Development in Korea ..   32
2. Selected Incentive Schemes for R&D Activities        .............  34
3. Types of R&D Projects Financed by KTDC ......... o............   35
4. KTDC Organization Chart ....................................   36
5. Financial Support by Subsector .......................           37
6. Selected Examples of KTDC-supported Projects ..............   38
7. Financial Support by Size of Company ......................   40
8. Financial Support by Financial Instruments ................  41
9. Assumptions Made on Financial Projections 1984-1990 ........  42
10. Projected KTDC Financial Statements ..........................   47
11. Sensitivity Analysis of KTDC Finances .........................50
12. Disbursement Schedule .....................................   51
13. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .   52
MAP: IBRD Map of Korea (IBRD 12351R2)



- iii -
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowc.r             : Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC)
Guarantor             : Republic of Korea
Amount                : $50 million, including the capitalized front-end
fee
Terms                 : Payable in 11 years including five years of grace
at the World Bank standard variable interest rate
Relending Terms       : KTDC would pass on the proceeds of the Bank loan to
the final beneficiaries in the following three
ways: (a) conventional loans to subborrowers iith
a maximum term of 10 years including three years
grace with an effective spread of at least 2.5Z
above the respective cost of funds to KTDC; (b)
conditional loans that would provide KTDC with a
partial claim on sales revenues in the case of
successful projects but where KTDC would recover
only a portion (commonly 30X) of the loan If no
sales revenues are generated; (c) equity
participation in companies set up to commercialize
R&D results. The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the subborrowers of loans and by KTDC on
equity investments.
Project Description  : The overall objective of the project is to foster
the technological development of Korean industry.
Specifically, the project would consist of two
major components:
(a) A line of credit to cover the estimated foreign
exchange requirements of subprojects to be financed
by KTDC during 1984-86; and
(b) Institutional development of KTDC, comprising:
(i) consulting services to support the operations
of KTDC and training of KTDC staff, both to further
deepen KTDC's capacity to identify, appraise, and
supervise R&D projects and to enable KTDC to carry
out surveys of the technological needs of Korean
industries; and (ii) purchase of training materials
for KTDC staff.



- iv -
Risks                    Project risks are related mainly to the trade-offs
between intermediate- and long-term goals, such as
the development of SMIs and expansion of risk-
sharing operations, and more Immediate needs, such
as the establishment of a profitable and viable
institution. Provisions have been included in the
project to mitigate this risk substantially.
W Billion  US$ Million   _
Financing Plan           Equity - Private             13.3         16.6       9
1984-86                  - Goverament          9.0         11.3       6
Subtotal                  22.3         27.9      15
Long-Term Loans
Government              37.8         47.3      27
KTDC Bonds              28.5         35.6      20
IBRD (lst & 2nd)        53.5         66.9      38
Subtotal         119.8       149.8       85
Total Financing Required  142.1         177.7      100
Estimated
Disbursements          Bank FY        1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
---   US$ Million
Annual          7.5    14.0    17.5      9.0     2.0
Cumulative      7.5    21.5    39.0    48.0    50.0



I   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank
assistance to finance a project that would facilitate the development of
industrial technology in Korea. The project executing agency, the Korea
Technology Development Corporation (KTDC), was established in May 1981 to
promote and finance private industry's, research and development (R&D)
activities. The Bank extended a loan of US$50 million to KTDC on March 25,
1982 (Loan 2112-KO). The loan was fully committed at the end of August
1984, six mDnths ahead of the original schedule.
1.02      The proposed Second Technology Development Project would aim at
continuing support for the Government's effort to accelerate the
development of industrial technology through continued Bank involvement in
the second phase of KTDC's institution building. The project would
(a) assist KTDC's institutional development through technical assistance,
staff development and training; (b) assist KTDC's catalytic role in
technology innovation; (c) help establish a resource base for KTDC that
would be sustainable over the long-term; (d) expand KTDC's operations
involving risk-sharing financial instruments such as conditional loans and
equity investments; and (e) expand KTDC's support to small- and
medium-scale industries (SMIs).
1.03      Korea's economic development within the last two decades has been
characterized by high annual growth rates of GNP, a rapid shift from
an agriculture-based to a semi-industrial economy, and a dramatic increase
in the external sector. The share of the manufacturing sector in GNP has
more than doubled over the period with corresponding decline of the share
of agriculture. Exports grew at an annual rate of 33% in real terms;
imports grew at a rate of about 20%. The impressive development of the
industrial and manufacturing sectors was based largely on expansion of
light industrial goods, in which Korea had comparative advantage because of
its low cost and efficient labor. Since the early 1970s, however, the
country has become increasingly aware of the need to make Its industrial
structure more technology intensive.
1.04      Korea has made significant progress in expanding R&D investment.
Total R&D spending as a proportion of GNP increased sharply--from about
0.4% in 1970 to 0.6% in 1978, to 0.95% in 1982. The sharp increase during
the 1970s and early 1980s was the result of the establishment of 15
additional public research institutes between 1977-1979 designed to
strengthen the nation's R&D infrastructure. Growing awareness on the part
of industry of the need to maintain their competitiveness and a number of
fiscal measures further encouraged R&D spending by private firms. With a
continued emphasis on R&D investment by the private sector, whose R&D
investments amounted to US$380 million in 1982, the Government's plans call
for an increase In the ratio of R&D spending to GNP to 2% by 1986 and to
2.5% by the year 2000 (compared with 2.3% in the United States and 2.0% in
Japan in 1980). The number of R&D personnel is also projected to increase
from 16,000 in 1979 to 110,000 in 1991.



- 2 -
1.05      During the implemention of the First Technology Development
Project, the dialogue between the Bank and the Government on R&D policies
focused on the need to establish closer links between industry and the
public sector research institutes, and policies intended to support and
promote the development of private industry's R&D capability. The Bank's
experience with these periodic exchanges of views has in general been
satisfactory. As part of the Second Structural Adjustment Loan approved in
November 1983, the Bank assisted the Government in revising the Foreign
Capital Inducement Act. To further strengthen the Bank's policy dialogue
with Korea on technology issues, plans are under way for sector work to
review the efficacy of specific policy incentives, programs, and
institutions related to the development of industrial technology In Korea.
1.06      The Bank Group's direct involvement in assisting the Government's
effort to foster the technological development of Korean industry was
initiated in 1979 with Bank financing for the Electronics Technology
Project (Loan 1676-KO). The project, which is nearing completion, has
sought to develop the capacity of the Korea Institute of Electronics
Technology (KIET) to support the local electronics industry by providing
specialized services, manpower training, acquisition of foreign technology
and by undertaking, jointly with industry, R&D work. ICET has successfully
demonstrated to private industry the feasibility of establishing a
Korean-run, advanced semiconductor processing facility. The Bank has also
assisted the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) (Loan
2215-KO), which complements the activities of KTDC by providing support to
SMIs for expansion of facilities. In May 1983, IFC invested W 750 million
in the newly created Korea Development Investment Company (KDIC), a venture
capital company whose primary objectives include the provision of equity
finance for commercialization of new technology. The Bank has also
extended two education sector loans (Loans 1800-KO and 2427-KO in 1980 and
1984, respectively) to improve the quality of higher education in science
and engineering, and to increase the supply of qualified Korean engineers,
technicians, and managers. The second loan would lay the basis for a
strong network of academic institutions for graduate training and research
in science and engineering.
II. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA
A.   R&D Process and R&D Financing for Industrial Technology Development
2.01      Since this is only the third project of this type to be presented
to the Board in the last seven years (the other two being loans 1425-SP to
the Spanish Government in May 1977 and 2112-KO, the first loan to KTDC in
March 1982), the following paragraphs briefly describe a general conceptual
framework for the R&D process and R&D financing. The so-called product
life cycle (or technology innovation cycle) can be generally divided into
four phases: start-up, precommercial, expansion and maturlty. Thestart-up
phase comprises idea generation, feasibility studies and technical R&D.
The pre-commercial phase involves the development of prototypes and pilot
plants, preliminary production and test marketing. During the



-3-
expansion and maturity phases, the production and salcs grow and eventually
taper off.
2.02      Each phase is associated with distinct risks and uncertainties.
Typically, during the start-up phase, the major uncertainty is of technical
nature. Is the technology to be developed or improved within the reach of
technological capabilities available to the individual and/or the
corporation involved? What are the associated costs and the time
required? Would the technology which would emerge eventually have wide
commercial applications? Financial commitments initially tend to be
relatively small and increase gradually, but in some cases they can
snowball as the R&D work experiences repeated failures. During the
precommercial phase, the nature of the technical risks gradually changes.
How to expand the pilot-scale operation into a commercial-scale one? How
to minimize development and production costs? Commercial and market risks
become increasingly important during this phase. Is the market ready for
this type of product? What are the segments of the market to be targeted,
and how to communicate with them? Time also becomes a critical factor.
Are we the first in the market? What are competitors doing? During the
expansion and maturity phases, major uncertainties are focused on
commercial and market aspects. How to expand production quickly and reduce
production costs? How to penetrate into new market segments? How to
prolong the product's life span and rejuvenate the product with relatively
minor modifications?
2.03      Each phase also has typical financing patterns.  In the start-up
phase, a newly launched entrepreneur usually draws on private funding
sources, i.e., his/her own savings and borrowings from family and friends;
the ongoing firm draws on internally generated funds, Government R&D grants
and long-term loans, etc. In the precommercial phase, funds are drawn
substantially from the same sources as in the first phase, with greater
emphasis on venture capital and less on concessionary Government financing
or subsidies.  The expansion and maturity phases are normally financed by
self-generated funds, investment and commercial banks, supplemented, if
necessary, by Government incentives such as preferential interest rates and
tax incentives. Traditional financial institutions such as commercial and
development banks are primarily concerned with financing the expansion and
maturity phases (or collectively postmarket phases), when the technology is
tested and proven, the market is reasonably assured and the outcome of the
project is predictable and relatively certain. Typically, the first two
phases contain major uncertainties beyond the level acceptable for such
financial institutions. Several factors contribute to the reluctance by
traditional bankers to finance such projects: (a) lack of technical and
market expertise to evaluate the risk properly; (b) lack of organizational
and managerial tradition to include risky loans in their portfolio; (c)
lack of viable collateral because of software intensity and low collateral
value due to specialized needs for R&D equipment. As a result,
institutional gaps exist in many developing economies, which do not allow
the capital market to adequately meet specific financing requirements for
the start-up and precommercial phases (or collectively premarket phases) of
the technology innovation cycle.



- 4 -
2.04      Several developing countries and almost all the industrialized
nations have recognized the key role of public support for technology
promotion schemes In some form or other. There are sound economic reasons
for doing so even in a market economy. First, the socioeconomic return of
technology development activities are generally higher than the private
return because such activities generate substantial externalities in the
form of knowledge as well as other material benefits which cannot be all
appropriated by the developer. Second, the outcome of these activities is
uncertain which makes R&D investment quite risky. Thus, even though the
expected benefits of individual projects may be larger than the costs,
Individual entrepreneurs who are typically risk averse may not Invest in
them but society as a whole which has access to greater portfolio
diversification opportunitles can afford to be close to risk neutral.
Consequently, from the point of view of the economy as a whole It Is
beneficial to compensate for the tendency of individual entrepreneurs to
underinvest in such activity. Third, many R&D activities especially those
of relevance to modern industry require lumpy Investments which also call
for government Intervention to correct for market failure. Lastly, as
mentioned above, even when the entrepreneurs are willing to invest In
technology development activities, typically, gaps exist In the capital
market which preclude financing such as risky and software-intensive
ventures.
B. The Macroeconomic Background
2.05      Within the last two decades, Korea has transformed Itself from
one of the poorest developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture
with a weak balance of payments financed almost entirely through foreign
grants, to a semi-industrial, middle-income country wlth a fairly strong
external payment position. During 1960-1981 GNP grew by over 8% p.a. and
per capita Income more than tripled in real terms. The share of the
manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 30% while the share of
agriculture fell from 36% to 18%. Exports grew at an annual rate of 33% In
real terms while imports grew at a rate of about 20%. This rapid growth in
output was accompanled by a matching growth in employment and real labor
income.
2.06      Such impressive development in the Industrial and manufacturing
sectors was initially based on light industrial goods such as textiles,
apparels, wood products and household goods in which Korea had comparative
advantage due to its low cost and efficient labor. However, the country
has become increasingly aware of the need to transform its industrial
structure towards a technology-intensive one. A nuimber of considerations
make this imperative: (a) poor resource endowment; (b) a quickly
disappearing comparative advantage in labor-intensive industries; (c) a
desire for continuing gains in labor productivitv through technological
advancement; and (d) a desire to secure the long-term competitive advantage
of technological and innovative capacitv.
2.07      In the mid 1970s, first steps were taken to deepen the industrial
base and diversify the mix of manufactured exports through the creation of



- 5 -
capital intensive metal and chemical industries. With increasing
industrial maturity, the process of diversification has continued and
Korean firms have begun to move Into fields of higher technological
intensity such as electronics, machinery and fine chemicals, where the
domestic value added is much greater and export demand brisk. Having
committed itself to developing these subsectors, Korea must now adopt
measures that will bring it technologically abreast of some of its
competitors and establish its position in the world market. The Government
and private sector firms are keenly aware of this and have already taken
important steps as discussed below (paras 2.08-2.26).
C. Korea's R&D Spending Pattern
2.08      Overall R&D Spending:  Total R&D spending in Korea has increased
significantly during the recent years:
Table 2.1: Korea - R&D Spending
Total R&D Spending                  R&D Spending/GNP
(Won million current terms)                     (%)
1970            10,547                     0.39
1975            42,663                     0.44
1980           211,726                     0.62
1982           457,688                     0.95
Source: Ministry of Science and Technology
As a percent of GNP, total R&D spending almost reached 1% in 1982. Korea's
total R&D spending as a percent of GNP is among the highest in the
developing countries and Is now comparable to some developed countries.
However, it is still considerably below those in highly Industrialized
countrles such as the United States (2.3%), Federal Republic of Germany
(2.6%), and Japan (2.0%).1/ The Fifth Five-Year Plan targets the ratio
increasing to 2% by 1986 and to 2.5% by year 2000 (Annex 13).
2.09      R&D Spending by Sector:  R&D activities in Korea are conducted by
three sectors: (a) public sector Institutes, (b) universities, and
(c) Industry. Publlc sector institutes consist of two distinct groups --
(a) government research institutes, which are financed and managed by
central and reglonal governments to promote the natlon's policy, publlc
1/  1980 figures.  Given the nebulous nature of technology development and
the Insufficient quality of data, R&D statistics should be viewed only
as indicators of general trends and broad guides for International
comparison.



- 6 -
interest and welfare, and engage In testing and limited research activities
in varlous areas (agriculture, forestry, fishery, climatology, astronomy,
public health); and (b) 12 nonprofit research institutes, such as the Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) and the Korean Energy
Research Institute, which are mostly supported by the Government's budget
and have the specific directive to promote R&D in their respective areas of
specialization. Nonprofit research institutes and industry are the two
dominant sectors accounting for 29% and 45% of total R&D spending in 1982
(Annex 1, Table I). In comparison with more advanced countries, the share
of industry in R&D is, although increasing rapidly, still low. This gap,
however, is partially filled In Korea by the comparatively greater spending
by nonprofit research institutes (Annex 1, Table II).
2.10      Spending by Nature of R&D Activity:  In 1981, 47% of direct R&D
expenses went to development (downstream work); while basic and applied
research (upstream work) accounted for 53% combined. Despite continued
efforts to promote R&D activities In the areas most responsive to
industry's needs, Korea's overall R&D investment, compared with more
advanced countries, is stlll oriented more toward basic and applied
research (Annex 1, Table III).
2.11      Research Expense Per Researcher:  The average research expense
per researcher Increased from W 5.2 million to W 16.1 million during
1976-1982 (Annex 1, Table IV). Although Industry is catching up quickly,
nonprofit research Institutes command the highest level of R&D expense per
researcher, almost twice as much as industry. Korea's overall R&D spending
per researcher of US$21,500 equivalent (1982) compares unfavorably with
USS142,000 In the Federal Republic of Germany (1979), US$137,000 in France
(1979), US$98,000 in the Unlted States (1980), and US$71,000 in Japan
(1980).
D. R&D Actlivties by Industry
2.12      Korea's initial Industrialization was based on mature and easily
transferable technologies proven elsewhere. With the growing sophistica-
tion of industry and rising labor costs, Korean entrepreneurs have felt an
increasing need to develop thelr technological capabilitles. The immediate
natural reaction was to import the required technologles. However, with
the Increasing technological capability of the Korean Industry, Korean
companies have recently begun to experience some difficulties in obtaining
adequate technology from firms In more advanced countries. From this
experience, Korean entrepreneurs appear to have determined that, while
Imported technology has a critical and continuing role to play in
industrial development, Korea must also develop Its own technological
capabilities to ensure the long-term competitiveness of the domestic
'ndustry. lhis growing awareness, supported by Government policies and
incentive schemes (paras 2.25 and 2.26), has resulted In the dramatic
. crease in R&D activlties by Industrv, from W 15 billlon in 1976 to W 205



billion in 1982. The number of R&D centers affiliated with Korean industry
increased from 43 in 1979 to 112 in 1983. For SMIs and for R&D in emerging
fields such as biotechnology, the Government encourages firms to join
forces and establish R&D cooperatives. Currently, there are 14 of these
R&D cooperatives established by 83 member firms.
2.13      During the short period of 1979-1982, the proportion of expendi-
tures on R&D to total sales revenues for all manufacturing industry
increased from 0.33% to 0.65% (Annex 1, Table V). Another indicator of the
R&D intensity is the proportion of researchers in the overall employment
(Annex 1, Table VI). As a proportion of total employees, the number of R&D
personnel in Korea is about one half of those in the United States or
Japan.
E. Nonprofit Research Institutes
2.14      Out of 12 nonprofit research institutes, 9 fall under the
administrative responsibilities of the Ministry of Science and Technology
(MOST); the Ministries of Trade and Industry, of Construction, and of
Health and Society each administer one. Most of these nonprofit research
institutes and their predecessors were established during 1976-1978 with
the primary objective of strengthening the technological infrastructure of
Korean industry by performing industry-oriented research and support
activities. These objectives were justifiable, particularly during the
initial years when private industry was unable to establish its own R&D
centers. The Government-supported nonprofit research institutes were
considered, at that time, to be the only feasible means to cater for
industry's technological needs. Collectively, these institutes spent
W 131 billion in 1982 or about 30% of the nation's total R&D expenditures.
2.15      However, the ability and capacity of these institutions to
effectively meet industry's rapidly growing and increasingly complex
technical needs has been limited. Financial and human resources were too
thinly spread over too many research institutes, in some cases with
overlaps in R&D areas. More importantly, however, the institutes initially
recruited a large number of their staff from academic fields, the only
readily available sources of recruitment. Unfortunately, these researchers
were particularly weak in manufacturing know-how and in their ability to
develop prototypes, and have been typically unable to assist industry in
solving its practical problems. Despite the major efforts made in 1980/81
to consolidate nonprofit research institutes and to streamline administra-
tive responsibilities, only 82 of industry's total R&D spending was
contracted out to these institutions and such revenues only accounted for
17% of the overall R&D budget of these institutions. Despite this
apparently low level of inceraction, the nonprofit institutes continue to
concentrate heavily on the development stage of R&D activities (Annex 1,
Table III) against the researchers' inherent interest and their comparative
advantages vis-a-vis industry.



- 8 -
2.16      The Government considers a closer linkage between industry and
non-profit research institutes important. To strengthen this relationship,
in 1982 the Government initiated  National Projects  to develop broad
technological infrastructure in priority areas (such as semiconductors,
computers, fine chemicals, mechanical industry, material science, plant
system engineering). The national project scheme is divided into two
parts: Government-initiated projects, and industry-initiated projects,
with the former conducted by non-profit institutes alone, and the latter
conducted together with industry on a joint research basis.  In 1983, 56
government-initiated projects amounting to W 16 billion (US$20 million
equivalent) and 124 industry-initiated projects amounting to W 18 billion
(US$23 million equivalent) were implemented; the private sector met about
two-thirds of the cost of the latter project. Selection of these projects
was made primarily by MOST. In an effort to improve the selection and
implementation of the National Project Scheme, the Government has, starting
in 1984, decided to utilize KTDC's appraisal function by channeling about I
3 billion through KTDC. The performance of national projects will have to
be reviewed within the overall context of the function and management of
nonprofit research Institutes and their linkage to industry.
2.17      There is a need to redefine the respective roles of public and
private research institutes in the future. The need for support to private
industry for the downstream stage of R&D has probably decreased as
companies have established their own research capabilities.  However, it is
also possible that, as industry's technological capacity increases and its
focus on R&D shifts quickly to more advanced technologies, it will require
morc support, particularly in basic and advanced applied research, which
nonprofit research institutes may be better equipped to provide.
2.18      There is also a aeed to address the issue of management of the
nonprofit research institutes with a view to making them more responsive to
industry's needs in selecting and implementing research projects, and more
accountable for their efficiency and outputs. For example, in allocating
resources to nonprofit research institutes, the Government, based primarily
on historical performance, first estimates the institution's overall
financial requirements and expected earnings from outside contracts. The
Government then allocates its budget on the basis of the estimated
shortfall. Unfortunately, this system hardly provides incentives to
researchers who attract outside contracts from industry. Furthermore,
managers of these institutions have only limited means to reward high
performers because of the Government's strict control of the institutes'
budgets.
F. Manpower Development
2.19      In recent years, Korea has dramatically increased the
technological manpower for R&D as shown below:



Korea - Development of Technological Manpower
Per 10,000
Year     Public Sector Institutes   Industry   Universities Total  Population
Persons(P)        Z         (P)  (Z)    (P)    (Z)    (P)  Persons
1977     4,039            (32)     3,896 (38)   4,836   (38)  12,771   3.5
1980     4,598            (25)     5,141 (28)   8,695   (47)  18,434   4.8
1982     6,129            (22)     9,959 (35)  12,360   (43)  28,448   7.3
However, the number of research scientists and engineers engaged in R&D
still remains low compared with more advanced countries (25-30 researchers
per 10,000 population). In addition, the share of these scientists and
engineers in industry represents about 35% of total R&D manpower, compared
with the level of 55-65% in the more advanced countries.
2.20      The Government projects that the demand for research scientists
and engineers will reach 110,000 by the early 1990s. To meet such a demand
and with the Bank's active involvement, the Government has accorded
priority to expanding and upgrading science and technology education at
graduate and undergraduate levels. The Government's major objectives are
to:  Ca) improve the quality of graduate programs; (b) expand the progrs
and strengthen the management of the Korea Science and Engineering
Foundation, the key institution for the promotion and funding of science
and technology research; (c) improve collaboration In graduate education
and research among graduate schools and research institutes; (d) increase
the supply, and improve the qualification, of faculty members in science
and engineering; and (e) improve laboratory and other facilities essential
for science and engineering education. The Bank has extended an education
sector loan (Loan 2427-KO) to help the Government achieve some of these
objectives.
G. KTDC and Other Industrial Support Organizations
2.21       Given the limited role that traditional financial institutions
can play in R&D financing (para 2.03), a specialized institution, KTDC, was
created in May 1981 primarily to promote and finance R&D projects. In the
short time since it was established, KTDC has emerged as a major financing
mechanism for R&D in Korea. Equally important are KTDC's emerging role in
identifying technological gaps and promoting related R&D activities, and
the pool of expertise it has developed in this specialized field. KTDC's
functions, issues and programs designed to increase its effectiveness are
discussed in Chapter III of this report.
2.22       KTDC complements activities of existing Korean financial and
other industrial support organizations. The Korea Development Bank (KDB)
initiated Technology Development Loans in 1976 t^ finance R&D activities,
commercialization of R&D results and purchases of R&D equipment. To date,



- 10 -
KDB's Technology Development Loans have been primarily concerned with
commercialization of R&D results whereas KTDC's operations have been
focused mDre on the upstream R&D activities. KDB is catering mDstly to its
traditional clientele of large firms, whereas about half of KTDC's
clientele are SMIs. In April 1984, KDB announced that it would establish a
venture capital outfit within its organization. Although the detailed
modus operandi is yet to be established, this development could further
accelerate the acceptance of the risk-sharing concept among Korean
entrepreneurs (para 4.06).
2.23      Other institutions with which KTDC has close complementary
functions include the Korea Technology Advancement Corporation (KTAC) and
Korea Development Investment Corporation (KDIC). KTAC specializes in
commercialization of R&D results from the Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology (KAIST) through sales of know-how and equity
investments. Thus, its operational scope is limited. KDIC was established
in December 1982 as the first venture capital company with 100% private
sector ownership in Korea (para 2.27). The Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) provides extension services, technical
assistance and training to SMIs (para 2.27). KTDC has close cooperative
arrangements with SMIPC, KTAC, KDIC and other organizations under which
they jointly cater for the broader technical and financial needs of their
respective clients.
H. Policy Towards Industrial Techmology Development
2.24       To date, Korea has initiated an impressive array of policy and
administrative measures to facilitate the development of industrial tech-
nology and address some of the issues as discussed previously. Strategies
behind these measures have been to: (a) encourage R&D investments by
industry as much as possible; (b) liberalize foreign technology imports;
(c) increase the linkage between industry and nonprofit research
institutes; and (d) create suitable financing mechanisms for R&D
activities, particularly f r SMIs. Furthermore, to complement these
measures, the Government has increased education sector investments to
improve the quality as well as the quantity of technical manpower.
2.25      Incentive Schemes for R&D Investments by Private Industry;  To
encourage R&D activities by industry, the Government has initiated various
incentives, including the Technology Development Reserve (TDR), tax credits
for R&D expenditures, accelerated depreciation for investments to commer-
cialize R&D results, and reduced excise tax for technology-intensive
products. Under the TDR scheme, a company can set aside up to 20% of
profit before tax or 1% of revenues in any year for the following four
years, subject to MOST approval of its R&D program. In the case of
technology-intensive industries, the allowable percentage is 30% of net
profit or 1.5% of revenues. In effect, the TDR scheme allows companies to
write off R&D expenditures up to four years before actual expenditures are
incurred. If TDR funds so accumulated are not used within four years,
however, the company must pay back taxes on the unused balance as well as a
penalty. During 1974-1983, the TDR balance increased from W 2.9 billion to
W 56.5 billion while the number of participating companies increased from



- 11 -
60 to 160. Specifics of other selected tax incentives are briefly
described in Anmnex 2. There is no doubt that these measures have
collectively been a major contributory factor to the rapid increase in
industry's R&D activities. TDR accounts have also been the main sources of
the private sector's equity contribution to KTDC.
2.26      Liberalization of Foreign Technology Import:  Korea's
technological acquisitions during the 1960s and 1970s were predominantly
achieved through imports of turnkey plants and machinery rather than more
direct proprietary transfers through direct foreign investments and
licencing agreements. In fact, the Government's attitude towards direct
foreign technology imports was circumspect.2/ Towards the end of 1970s,
however, Korea changed its orientation. During the brief period of
1978-1980, the Government launched a four-stage technology liberalization
program which resulted in a major simplification of the approval process.
Furthermore, as a result of amendments made to the Foreign Capital
Inducement Act in 1983, industry can now import virtually any technology
(except for technology related to defense and nuclear safety) without prior
government clearance. In a related move, the present list of industries
open to direct foreign investment is currently being replaced with a
negative list, specifying only those industries in which direct foreign
investments are prohibited or restricted. The number of industries in
which foreign investment is permitted will be substantially increased under
the new system. Administrative procedures for direct foreign investment
are in the process of being simplified. All applications by prospective
foreign investors satisfying specific criteria (including the foreign
investor's share of equity in the project and the total amount of foreign
equity) will be approved by the Ministry of Finance immediately. The major
policy issue in the future is the balance between the development of
indigenous technology and imports. The fact that several developed
countries are becoming increasingly unwilling to transfer state-of-the-art
technology as Korea advances its technological capability requires that
Korea give this issue increasing attention in the coming years.
I. The Role of the Bank
2.27      As diJscussed above, Korean industrial technology development
policies have, over the last decade, been characterized by initiative and
foresight. The Bank has assisted the Government both through an active
dialogue on technology policy and institutional issues and through specific
projects designed to support various parts of the investment programs that
complement policy. The Bank Group's first direct involvement in
technological development -was initiated in 1979 with Bank financing for the
Electronics Technology Project (Loan 1676-KO). The project, which is
nearing completion, seeks to develop the capacity of KIET to support the
local electronics industry through provision of specialized services,
manpower training, acquisition of foreign technology and undertaking,
21 Reflections on Korea's Requisition of Technological Capacity. IBRD
Draft Report DRD 77, Aprll 1984.



- 12 -
jointly with industry, production and R&D work. KIET has successfully
demonstrated to the private industry the feasibility of establishing a
Korean-run advanced semiconductor processing facility without expensive
license and has developed 8-bit microprocessors and other advanced
products. The first Bank loan to KTDC (Loan 2112-KO) in 1982 was aimed at
helping to bridge a serious gap in the Korean financial system by providing
financial assistance for typically risky technology intensive industrial
R&D projects (see Chapter IV for assessment of KTDC's development under
that project). The Bank has also assisted the SMIPC (Loan 2215-KO) which
provides shop-floor advice and guidance to increase the productivity of
small and medium enterprises. Its activities are concentrated on the
downstream or market phase of the technology innovation life cycle and on
relatively mature technologies. Thus, SMIPC complements the activities of
KTDC which operates mainly in the premarket phase of the technology
innovation cycle. In May 1983, IFC invested W 750 million in the newly
created Korea Development Investment Company (KDIC) a venture capital
company whose primary objective is to provide equity finance for
commercialization of new technology. Finally, through sector loans made in
1980 (Loan 1800-KO) and earlier this year (Loan 2354-KO) the Bank is
assisting in the upgrading and expansion of higher education for science
and engineering. The Bank's dialogue in these areas has generally been
excellent and the objectives of the first education sector loan, now
nearing completion, have been substantially realized.
2.28      As part of the First Technology Development Project, provision
was made for the Bank and the Government to engage in periodic discussions
of tt- Government's R&D policies especially with regard to establishing
close. links between industry and the public research institutes and
policies aimed at supporting and promoting the development of industry's
R&D capability. Similarly, as part of the Second Structural Adjustment
Loan approved in November 1983, the Bank assisted the Government in revis-
ing the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. The Bank's experience with these
periodic exchanges of views has been generally satisfactory. Given the
dynamic nature of R&D activities, it is important that the policy and
institutional environment be the subject of continuing review. During the
proposed project, the Government and the Bank will continue to exchange
views on existing and emerging issues on technology policy.  Some areas
requiring review Include the role of small and medium industries, measures
to facilitate the role of KTDC and other institutions in promoting venture
capital activities and measures for patent and copyright protection.
Preliminary studies have already been initiated in some of these areas.
The Bank's role would, through sector work and the supervision of the
proposed project, be primarily one of advising the responsible agencies on
the design and implementation of Korea's technology-related policies.



- 13 -
III. THE KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (KTDC)
A. Institutional Goals
3.01      KTDC was established on May 1, 1981, with strong support from
the Government and private industry. The Bank played an active role in
KTDC's conception, and in designing its ownership, organizational struc-
ture, and operational policies and procedures. KTDC's principal goals are
to promote the development of industrlal technology, and to facilitate
desirable changes in industrial structure, so as to strengthen the interna-
tional competitiveness of Korean industry.
3.02      To achieve these goals, KTDC performs several important functions
as described below:
(a)  Financing R&D Projects:  One of the important insti-
tutional gaps that existed in the Korean capital market
prior to KTDC's establishment was R&D financing for
industrial technology (paras 2.03 and 2.21). KTDC
actively identifies and appraises R&D projects initiated
by industry during the premarketing phases of the product
innovation cycle (para 2.01). Types of projectsKTDC
finances are described in Annex 3;
(b)  Venture Capital Operations:  The Government and private
industry in Korea intend to use venture capital
operations to develop industrial technology quickly.
KTDC is playing the pioneering role in this area. The
crux of this operation is the concept of risk (and,
consequently, reward) sharing by KTDC and respective
private entrepreneurs, inventors, and technology
innovators;
(c)  Promotion of Industrial Technology Development among SHIs:
Considering the important role that SMIs can play in
industrial technology development, and in view of their
demonstrated success in more advanced countries, the .
Government and the private sector are anxious to promote
technological development through SMIs. KTDC, along with
other industrial support organizations (paras 2.22-2.23),
plays a key role in this effort;
(d)  Brokerage Services:  KTDC's unique position and the
extensive contacts that it has developed with private
industry, research institutes, and financial institutions
permit it to increasingly provide brokerage services in
matchmaking among researchers, Inventors, and
entrepreneurs both in Korea and overseas. This function
is important in facilitating R&D activities and in
commercializing of their results; and



- 14 -
(e) Information Services: With its intimate knowledge of the
status of technological development and the needs of
industry, KTDC assists industry and the Government in
identifying technological trends, market prospects, and
emerging areas of focus for R&D efforts and commerciali-
zation prospects. In addition to close association with
similar organizations in other countries, KTDC is affili-
ated with some US venture capital companies that provide
KTDC with additional avenues for such information.
In addition, based on its experience and expertise, which are unique in
Korea, KTDC is playing an increasingly important function to consult and
advise various government agencies in identifying major policy constraints
and suggesting appropriate measures.
B. Legal Framework and Ownership
3.03      The Korean Technology Development Corporation Act and the related
Enforcement Decree which established KTDC enable the institution: to
operate in an autonomous manner with the efficiency of a private company;
to have a strong and independent management; and to attract and retain
staff of high caliber and entrepreneurship. As of end 1983, RTDC was
roughly 80% owned by the private sector and 20% by the Government (para
4.07). The private sector ownership of KTDC is broadly based, including
14 industrial groups, 83 individual firms, and 5 banking institutions
(Annex 13). To avoid undue concentration of influence, the KTDC Act limits
ownership and/or voting rights by any private shareholder to no more than
7%. The proportion of the SMIs' shareholding is only 0.7% of the total
paid-in capital. Given the financial situation of SMIs, prospects of
substantially increasing the SMIs' share is limited at present. SMIs'
interest, at the KTDC's Board level, is safeguarded principally through
representation by the Vice Minister of MOST (on behalf of the Government)
and the President of the Korea Federation of Small Business (KFSB). The
KTDC Act specifically mandates its management to give priority to SMIs by
allocating not less than a certain prescribed portion of KTDC's total
financial resources to such enterprises (para 4.03). Also, in appraising
financing applications, KTDC makes no reference to the applicants' status
in KTDC shareholding.
C. Operating Policies and Procedures
3.04      KTDC's Statement of Investment and Operational Policies (Annex
13) provides guidelines for KTDC operations, including the scope of loan
and investment activities, criteria for investment decisions,
diversification of assets, promotion of SMIs, relations with clients, and
generation of profits. With respect to asset diversification, KTDC has
confirmed that It will continue to apply its existing policy, which limits
its total financing commitment outstanding at any time to any single
enterprise to not more than 7% of its long-term portfolio. Combined with



- 15 -
other operational policies (such as limiting KTDC's equity investments in
any single enterprise to not more than 10X of its paid-in capital and free
reserves), there are adequate safeguards to protect KTDC from an undue
concentration of Its assets. In addition, details of the terms and
conditions of KTDC's loans and equity investments and procedures are given
in the Statement of Rules on the Lending and Equity Participation (Annex
13).
3.05      To promote the undertaking of R&D projects by industry, which
inherently involve substantial risks and a long gestation time, KTDC shares
both the risk of failure and the benefits of success. To this end, KTDC
offers the following types of financial support:
(a)  Conventional Loans:  with or without collateral
requirements;
(b)  Conditional Loans:  that allow profit and risk sharing
with project sponsors. Such loans are normally repaid
through royalty payments from sales revenues if the
project is successful, including a reasonable return on
the loans; if the project does not result in sales
revenues, KTDC recovers only a portion of the principal
from the sponsor; and
Cc) Equity Investments:  in companies set up to commercialize
R&D results.
3.06      KTDC management considers that expanding operations involving
conditional loans, which KTDC has introduced in Korea, and equity invest-
ments are particularly important because R&D investments by private
industry particularly among SMIs would multiply when these risk-sharing
financial instruments become widely accepted. KTDC's ability to provide
loans without collateral is unique in Korea; they are particularly appro-
priate for software-intensive projects carried out by SMIs who are typical-
ly unable to provide security. Stince its financing is oriented toward
risk sharing, KTDC plans to give increasing emphasis to such operations,
rather than to hardware loane with collateral security, because financing
for the latter is more easily available from other financial institutions.
3.07      Typically, KTDC receives preliminary inquiries from local entre-
preneurs, researchers, and inventors with project ideas. Often, a project
idea at that stage is neither well conceived nor sufficiently developed to
constitute a bankable project. Through interviews with potential appli-
cants, KTDC staff determine whether to encourage formal applications.
Staff also provide advice and suggestions based on their own expertise.
Once a formal application Is received, the Director of the Appraisal
Department decides whether to proceed with a formal appraisal or not. The
formal appraisal report is reviewed by the President, who decides whether
to recommend the project for further considerations by the Board or



- 16 -
Executive Directors. Historically, 752 of the initial inquiries reach
formal appraisal, and 50% recelve KTDC's financial support.
D. Organization, Management and Staff
3.08      The responsibility for the policy and general direction of KTDC's
business rests with the Board of Directors, which currently comprises of
the Chairman of the Board, the President, Executive Vice-President,
Executive Director, and eight outside Directors, including the Vice
Minister of MOST. The President reports directly to the Board and is
responsible for KTDC's overall operations.
3.09      The Board, which has the ultimate authority over all investment
decisions, has delegated authority to approve Individual loans and invest-
ments to (a) the President (up to the ceiling of W 300 million or about
US$375,000 equivalent) and (b) the Executive Directors' committee
consisting of all directors who are full-time managers of KTDC (up to the
ceiling of W 500 million or about US$625,000 equivalent). Such delegation
of authority has helped to strengthen KTDC's management and helped to
enable the institution to respond quickly to private industry's changing
R&D needs.
3.10      KTDC has four departments:  Appraisal Departments I and II, which
are divided by industrial subsectors and are responsible for project iden-
tification and appraisal; the Credit Department, responsible for project
supervision and administration of loans and investments; and the Planning
and Administration Department, responsible for planning, budgeting,
economic and market surveys, personnel, and other support services.
KTDCts organizational chart is shown in Annex 4.
3.11      Of particular importance is the Venture Capital Management
Division recently created in Appraisal Department II. It specializes in
equity investments and conditional loans (para 3.05). These activities
were previously handled by the respective Appraisal Departments during
project identification and appraisal stages, and by the Credit Department
during the project supervision stage. Under the new system, the Venture
Capital Management Division is solely responsible for all phases of the
project cycle. The rationale for this reorganization are: (a) to develop,
within KTDC, and as quickly as possible, a critical mass of expertise in
risk-sharing financial instruments; (b) to strengthen communication
channels to potential clients with keen interest in these instruments; (c)
to establish clear terms of reference and accountability for the manager
and staff of the team so that the development of venture capital operations
(work pioneering in nature, and relatively time consuming) would receive
desirable priority in KTDC and (d) to provide adequate supervision and loan
and investment administration of these types of activities, which require
qualitatively different, and more intensive attention.
3.12      Currently, KTDC has about 40 professional staff with various
backgrounds and about 10 years of work experience on average, including R&D



- 17 -
scientists and eagineers, project engineers, development and merchant
bankers, and lawyers. The varied expertise and interdisciplinary cross-
fertilization that have evolved have become the major asset of KTDC. KTDC
plans to recruit some additional ten professional staff during 1984-1986.
Attrition among the staff has been very low.
E. Staff Development and Training
3.13      KTDC is staffed by highly motivated, capable individuals with
excellent academic backgrounds and work experience. Given the unique and
evolving nature of its functions and relatively short existence, however,
KTDC management and staff must constantly strive to upgrade the corpora-
tion's organizn :onal effectiveness and individual staff expertise. It is
widely recognized that there is a significant shortage of expertise neces-
sary for venture capital business. This constraint, which also reflects
the situation in many developed countries, is mostly due to the relative
newness of the profession, which requires skills qualitatively different
from those required in traditional financial and industrial management. In
addition, the organizational objectives of KTDC are much broader than those
of ordinary venture capitalists thus making it necessary for KTDC manage-
ment to emphasize systematic staff development and training. As part of
this effort, KTDC has established a program of systematic staff reassign-
ment every three years on the average to develop an overall corporate
perspective and functional flexibility on the part of individual
employees.
3.14     The first project Included USS650,000 equivalent to be used for
technical assistance, training, and educational materials. However, given
its relatively tight financial position during its start-up period, KTDC
opted for less costly sources of training funds and did not utilize the
loan proceeds. To date, KTDC staff have received about 80 man-months of
external training in addition to numerous in-house training programs. Such
training activities concentrated on areas such as technology innovation and
trends, R&D financing, venture capital operations and small business
management. To accelerate KTDC staff development, UNDP, KTDC and the Bank
have recently concluded an agreement on a KTDC Institutional Development
Project," under which KTDC will receive management and staff training and
technical assistance totaling US$226,000. These activities will:
(a) further develop KTDC's expertise in project and company analysis,
particularly for operations Involving risk-sharing financial instruments;
and (b) expand KTDC's contacts and information pipelines with overseas
high-technology and venture capital firms and institutions with similar
objectives. The Bank is acting as the executing agency for the project.
Experience to be gained from these programs would be used in designing
KTDC's further staff development and training programs, for which purpose,
US$300,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed loan is set aside
(para 5.02). It is expected that KTDC will continue to prefer grants and
other subsidized sources of financing for these activities. If these
materialize, the proposed loan proceeds earmarked for this purpose would be
reallocated to the line of credit.



- 18 -
IV. KTDC UNDER THE FIRST TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Lending and Investment Operations
4.01      Demand for KTDC's R&D Financing:  Since the start of its
business, there has been a strong demand for KTDC's R&D financing, which
surpassed appraisal estimates by a wide margin, as shown below:
Table 4.1: KTDC Financing Applications and Loan Commitments
Actual                       Appr.lsal Estimate
Year   Financing Application    Financing Commitment   Financing Comsitment
# of Appl. Won Billion   f of Com.  Won Billion        Won Billion
1981       92         17.4           49            6.1              3.5
1982       88        46.0            80           22.1             14.2
1983      198        105.3          141           49.9             20.6
Total     378        168.7          270           78.1             38.3
Note: The processing of a loan application takes 1-6 months depending on
the specific situation of the project.
4.02      KTDC's performance to date has been very satisfactory.  At the
end of the last fiscal year (December 31, 1983), KTDC had approved 270
projects amounting to about W 78 billion or more than double the appraisal
estimates. KTDC has supported a broad spectrum of R&D activities, ranging
from projects dealing with most advanced medical electronics and
telecommunications technology, computer hardware and software, to projects
involving more basic technology such as educational toys and food
processing. Of the financing commitment to date, about 50% accounts for
R&D activities conducted in Korea while about 25% accounts for costs
necessary for importation of technology including licensing fees and
associated training. KTDC has been involved in the commercialization of
R&D results only when no other financing sources were available with
appropriate terms. The remainder of KTDC's financial support includes
commercialization of R&D results and purchases of research equipment for
research centers of private firms. The loan and investments extended to
small and medium sized companies (SMI) represented 47% by the number of
projects and 28% by amount, which substantially met the original targets.
In addition to financial services, KTDC has provided other important
services associated with technology development including management
assistance to startup SMIs, information services to follow technology
trends, iclentification of the specific technological gaps existing in Korea
and promotion of R&D activities in such areas. The detailed breakdown of
KTDC's operations by industrial subsector and a brief description of
selected projects are given in Annexes 5 and 6 respectively.



- 19 -
4.03      Financial Support for Small and Medium Industry:  KTDC'8 opera-
tional policy statement stipulates that the proportion, by value, of its
financial support  to SMIs be at least 20% in 1981 and 30% in 1982 and
thereafter. KTDC has substantially met these goals, as shown in Annex 7.
The trend Is also encouraging.  For example, the share of SiIs In KTDC's
total financial support Increased from 33% in 1981 to 50% in 1983 in terms
of the number of projects. In terms of the amount of local currency
financing, KTDC's support to SMIs increased from 30% to 35% in the same
period. However, SMIs' utilizatlon of KTDC's foreign currency financing,
although increasing, has been somewhat low (only 20% of KTDC's total
foreign currency financing), because of the nature of R&D activities by
SMIs.
4.04      The promotlon of R&D activities among SMIs has been a challenging
task for KTDC. The major difficulties encountered include: (a) limited
in-house technological capabilities among SMIs to Identify and develop R&D
projects with good prospects for commercialization; (b) limited
international contacts to identify sources of technology imports; and (c)
severe financial constraints which limit these firms' ability to bear their
minimum share of R&D expenses. In spite of t;iese difficulties, KTDC has
made commendable efforts to promote R&D activities among these firms
through extensive promotional activities and technical and managerial
advice. Financing applications to KTDC from SMIs are growing at a much
faster pace than those from large companies, as shown below:
Table 4.2: KTDC - Financing Applications by Size of Companies
(Won Billion)
Compounded
Financing Applicant       1981 a/   1982       1983    Total  Growth Rate b/
(z)
Large Companies           14.7       37.7      84.3    136.7         95
Small and Mediumc/         2.6       8.3       21.1      32.0       133
Total                     17.3      46.0      105.4    168.7
_ m 
a/ 8 months' operation.
b/ Adjusted for a/.
c/ Based on the definition under the Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Law: mainly enterprises with assets less than Won 500 million (about
USS630,000) or with less .han 300 employees, except for those industries
where the employment ceiling was revised to 500.
Furthermore, KTDC has consistently approved flnancing applications from
SMIs more aggressively (approving 69% of formal applications) than it has
those from large companies (41%). KTDC's business plan stipulates that it
set the target proportion for SMI operations at no less than 40% of total
financing amounts to be committed during 1984-86. KTDC has agreed that it
would review with the Bank by the end of each fIsca& year beginning 1984,
the operational targets for further promoting its support to SMIs during



- 20 -
the following fiscal year and on the basis of such reviews, introduce such
modifications to the targets as shall be mutually acceptable to KTDC and
the Bank.
4.05      Financing Activities by Financial Instruments:  KTDC supports R&D
activities through three kinds of financial instruments: conventional
loans (with or without collateral), conditional loans, and equity invest-
ments (para 3.05). Under the first project, it was hoped that the
conditional loans and equity investments In KTDC's operations would expand
from W 0.2 billion in 1981 to W 9.3 billion in 1983. The actual results
during 1981-1983 were about 50% of the original targets. In hlndsight
these Indicative targets were optimistic. A number of factors In the
Korean environment inherently constrain the expansion of conditional
lending and equity investments at the rate envisaged previously: (a) the
kind of innovative R&D projects sponsored by SMIs which are the types most
suitable for rlsk-sharing financial instruments are few, and time has to be
allowed for these activities to grow; (b) risk sharing is a relatively new
concept in Korea, and Korean entrepreneurs tend to be concerned with the
erosion of potential profits or the dilution of their ownership; and (c)
the legal and organizational framework that would be conducive to the
development of venture capital (i.e., flow-through tax,3/ a viable over-
the-counter market, etc.) has not yet been fully developed.
4.06      KTDC is convinced that these risk-sharing financial instruments
will be more widely accepted by Korean entrepreneurs in the future, albeit
gradually, and KTDC management is committed to playing a pioneering role in
promoting them. As a first step, KTDC established the Venture Capital
Management Divislon (para 3.11). In addition, a business cooperation
agreement has been concluded between KTDC, KDIC, and KTAC to promote joint
risk sharing for large-scale and/or risky ventures. As a result of these
and other efforts, KTDC anticipates that the proportion of conditional
loans and equity investments will increase from 4% in 1983 to 12% in 1986.
It is further expected that the proportion of these operations would reach
about 20% by 1990. These overall targets will be incorporated in KTDC's
operational policy statement. It should be noted, however, that due to the
relatively recent introduction of these financial instruments to the Korean
capital market, these targets are indicative and they would have to be
reviewed from time to time taking into consideration experience and actual
results of KTDC's operations. Consequently, KTDC has agreed to review with
the Bank by the end of each fiscal year beginning 1984, the interim
operational targets to be met by KTDC during the following year, and on the
basis of such review, introduce modifications to the interim targets as
shall be mutually acceptable to KTDC and the Bank. The Government and KTDC
have agreed to extend to the proposed loan the princlple that was applied
under the first loan whereby KTDC would receive additional funds from the
Government to cover losses suffered on loans made as conditional loans.
3/ To avoid double and/or triple taxation on income generated by venture
capital.



- 21 -
B. Resource Mobilization
4.07      KTDC's resource mobilization during 1981-1983 was as shown below:
Table 4.3: KTDC - Resource Mobilization
(Won Billion)
1981   1982   1983   Total   Total(Z)
Local Resources
Government Equity         1.0     1.0   1.0      3.0      5.3
Private Sector Equity    6.5      1.3   3.9    11.7      21.0
Total Equity            7.5     2.3   4.9    14.7      26.3
Government Loan           1.0     1.5   1.5      4.0      7.2
KTDC Debenture             -      -    25.5    25.5      45.7
Total Long-term Debt      1.0     1.5  27.0    29.5      52.9
Foreign Currency Resource
IBRD Loan a/              -       4.1   7.5    11.6      20.8
Total Resources           8.5     7.9  39.4    55.8    100.0
a/ On disbursement basis.
4.08      Originally, the Government had committed itself to making an
equity contribution of W 6 billion during the 1981-1984 implementation
period of the first project. Counting the W 2 billion planned for 1984,
the Government's contribution during the period would amount to W 5
billion, or W 1 billion short of the original commitment. This shortfall,
however, was more than compensated for by the private sector investment of
W 11.7 billion during the 1981-1983 period, compared with the KTDC's
original estimate of W 9 billion during 1981-1984.
4.09      For the term of the first project, the Government agreed to
provide KTDC with Government loan funds and Government-guaranteed KTDC
bonds totaling W 14 billion during 1982-1984. To meet the larger than
anticipated demand for KTDC's local currency financing, KTDC has relied
heavily on Government-guaranteed KTDC debentures (about W 25 billion).
These debentures have a maturity of 4-5 years and have been floated at the
market interest rate, with Government interest rate support to allow KIDC
interest rate spreads of between 1.5% and 2.0% p.a. In addition, the
Government has provided loans amounting to W 4 billion, at an interest rate
of 8.5% p.a. and maturity of 10-15 years including 5 years of grace.



- 22 -
C. KTDC's Loan and Investment Portfolio and Financial Results
4.10      Although it is too early to conduct a thorough analysis of KTDC's
loan and investment portfolio due to its short existence, KTDC's portfolio
is generally considered sound. Out of the more than 300 subprojects
financed to date, only five subprojects with an aggregate KTDC exposure of
about W 0.5 billion have been classified as problem loans/investments.
Most of KTDC's financial exposure in these subprojects have been recovered.
Given the high risks and long gestation periods of R&D financing, KTDC was
expected to incur operational losses during its initial several years of
operation. Actual corporate losses incurred, which were in line with
appraisal estimates, were about W 3 million, W 400 million, and W 1 billion
respectively for 1981, 1982 and 1983. KTDC's capital structure and
financial ratios during 1981-1983 are in line with covenants in the loan
and guarantee agreements for the first project. Disbursements for the Bank
loan as of end-1983 was at 83% of the appraisal estimate.
V. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND THE BANK LOAN
A. Project Objectives and Scope
5.01      The basic goal of the proposed Project is to continue support of
the Goverament's effort to facilitate the structural transformation of
Korean industry through acceleration of industrial technology development.
Specifically, the project will: (a) assist KTDC's Institutional develop-
ment through technical assistance, staff development, and training; (b)
assist KTDC's catalytic role in technology innovation; (c) establish the
foundation for a long-term resource base for KTDC; (d) expand KTDC's opera-
tions involving risk-sharing financial instruments; and (e) expand KTDC's
support to SMIs.
5.02      The proposed Project consists of:
Part A:  A line of credit to help cover costs of industry-sponsored
R&D subprojects in 1984-86.
Part B:  Institutional development of KTDC, comprising (i) consult-
ing services to support the operations of KTDC and
training of KTDC staff, both to further deepen their
capacity to identify, appraise, and supervise R&D projects
and to enable KTDC to carry out surveys of the
technological needs of Korean industries; and
(ii) purchase of training materials for KTDC staff.
B. Features of the Loan
5.03      Loan Amount:  The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million, would be
made directly to KTDC, and guaranteed by the Government. US$300,000 equiv-
alent would be used for Part B; the remainder, net of the capitalized



- 23 -
front-end fee, would finance Part A of the Project. The proposed loan
which would be fully committed by the end of 1986, would meet KTDC's
anticipated foreign exchange needs during 1984-1986. The estimated costs
of Part B include 15 manmonths of consulting services.
5.04      Lending Terms:  The proposed Bank loan would be lent to KTDC at
the Bank standard variable interest rate, with the capitalized front-end
fee of 0.25% and commitment fee of 0.75% on the unused portion of the
loan. Bank loans to financial intermediaries normally have flexible
amortization schedules which correspond to the expected aggregate amortiza-
tion schedule of the subloans to be financed. KTDC, however, represents a
special case. Aside from granting conventional loans, KTDC will gradually
expand its conditional loan operations (para 4.06). On such loans, not
only will there be no fixed repayment at all, as royalties would basically
only be due from those subprojects which are successful. Further, those
subprojects for which conditional loans are requested will necessarily be
those for which the greatest risk is perceived by the sponsor. As a
result, the expected returns from KTDC's conditional lending operations may
not in fact materialize in the first 4 to 6 years. For this reason, and at
the request of the Government and KTDC, the Bank loan would be made for 11
years including 5 years of grace.
5.05      Subloan Size, Diversificatlon of Subborrowers and Free Limit:  To
ensure broad impact of the loan proceeds, and in support of KTDC's efforts
to diversify its operations particularly with respect to KTDC's SMI objec-
tives (para 3.02), subloans will continue to have a ceiling of US$1.5
million equivalent. Furthermore, KTDC's outstanding financial commitments
which are to be made out of the proceeds of the proposed loan to a single
enterprise will not exceed US$5 million. Given the experience gained by
KTDC and the demonstrated excellent performance during the first project,
the free limit is proposed to be increased to US$500,000 equivalent.
Subloans under the proposed free limit wo-ald be reviewed by the Bank after
approval. This procedure would require the Bank's prior review for about
25-35% of the subloans.
5.06      Foreign Exchange Risk:  The foreign exchange risk on the Bank
loan will be passed on to the subborrowers of loans. Foreign exchange
risks for the loan proceeds applicable to equity investments as well as
Part B of the project would be borne by KTDC.
5.07      Retroactive Financing:  The first Bank loan was fully committed
at the end of August 1984. Given the current timing for Board
presentation, KTDC may need to commit up to US$5 million to subprojects
during the interim period. Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million
from the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made to KTDC so that its
operations would be minimally affected during the transition period.



- 24 -
C. Financial Aspects and Projections
5.08      In order to establish the foundation for a long-term resource
base, KTDC plans to (a) maintain a sound capital structure; (b) establish a
sufficiently large and well-diversified portfolio; and (c) maintain ade-
quate interest rate spreads. In combination with the further improvements
in KTDC's operational effectiveness and efficiency to be achieved through
the institution building efforts measures as detailed below (paras 5.09-
5.13) would eventually enable KTDC to mobilize an increasing portion of its
own resource needs from commercial sources according to the schedule
originally envisaged at the time of its establishment.
5.09      Demand for R&D financing:  Given the relatively short history of
R&D financing in Korea, it is not possible to accurately estimate the
demand for KTDC's R&D financing during the term of the project. However,
KTDC's experience during the past few years clearly indicates that there is
a large unmet demand for such financing. It is also expected that KTDC's
promotional activities would further increase such demand. The planned
level of operations by KTDC represents about 15% of expected R&D investment
by industry during 1984-86, which appears adequate. Compared with the last
few years, KTDC's subprojects in the future would increasingly focus on new
technologies and products as opposed to the improvements of existing
technologies and products, which accounted for almost 90% of the financial
assistance during 1981-83. The purchase of imported R&D equipment for
private firms' newly established research centers, which showed a sharp
increase in 1983, would decrease substantially during 1984-86. Therefore,
the annual foreign currency lending during the term of the project is
conservatively estimated to be lower than the 1983 level.
5.10      Capital Structure and Long-term Funding:  To meet an expected
substantial increase in the demand for R&D financing, KTDC plans to
increase the level of its total capitalization (long-term debt and equity)
to about W 197 billion by the end of 1986. Based on this figure, KTDC
expects to have a capital structure for the project period as shown below:



- 2-5 -
Table 5.1: KTDC- Projected Capital Structure
Paid in Equity             1983 (Actual)    1984      1986     1986
(Won Billion)           (Z)
Government                  3.0              5.0      12.0     6.1%
Private                    11.7              13.7     25.0    12.72
Subtotal                   14.7             18.7      37.0    18.8%
Long-Term Debt
Government Loan             4.0              6.0      41.8    21.2Z
KTDC Debenture             23.9             42.9      52.4    26.6Z
IBRD                       12.3             28.7      65.8    33.3Z
Subtotal                   40.2             77.6    160.0    81.2%
Total Capitalization       54.9             96.3    197.0   100.0%
The planned level of operations requires that KTDC more than triple its
total capitalization by 1986 and, consequently, its total loan and invest-
ment portfolio. This is both feasible and desirable in light of the strong
emphasis being given to R&D by the Government and the private sector and of
the demonstrated strong demand during the first project. Ln addition, a
rapid expansion of operations is also required to enable KTDC to develop a
sufficiently large and well-diversified portfolio and to establish itself
as a commercially viable entity in the near future. The proposed equity
contribution schedule is predicated on the estimates of the level of equity
that could be realistically raised from the private sector and the desira-
bility of limiting the Government's share of equity to about 30%. This
level of Government's equity is sufficiently large to demonstrate official
support to KIDC, and hence, to ensure the continued private sector
subscription to KTDC's equity while being small enough to maintain KTDC's
autonomy and operational efficiency.
5.11      The W 2 billion of equity to be contributed by the Government in
1984 is already included in the Government's 1984 budget. The Government
agreed to (a) increase KTDC's authorized capital to at least W 37 billion
by end 1984; (b) provide KTDC with further subscription to the paid-in
capital of W 3 billion for 1985; (c) provide KTDC with Government loans of
up to W 20 billion during 1984-1985 with terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank; and (d) provide the guarantee to KTDC debentures amounting to W
30 billion during 1984-1985. KTDC has also agreed to raise W 13.3 billion
as further subscription to the paid-in capital by private shareholders
during 1984-1986 and agreed to furnish to the Bank for its review a
detailed plan for this purpose by December 31, 1984. In addition, the
Government and KTDC have confirmed that necessary revisions to allow the
proposed capital increase in the KTDC Act, the Enforcement Decree and the



- 26 -
Article of Incorporation would be made by December 31, 1984, and that on or
before December 31, 1986, it would provide an additional subscription to
the paid-in capital of not less than W 4 billion and an additional
Government loan of up to W 18 billion, both on terms and conditions and in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
5.12      On the basis of the above capital structure, the implied debt/
equity ratio during the project period would be about 5:1 compared with
4:1, agreed on for the first project (debt equity ratio of 10:1 is normal
for DFCs in Korea). This level of debt/equity would provide a sufficiently
strong capital structure for KTDC, particularly in view of the experience
KTDC has gained during the first project, the larger portfolio to be
developed during the term of the proposed Project and a level of equity
investments and conditional loans lower than originally anticipated (paras
4.05 and 4.06).  KTDC has agreed that its debt/equity ratio would not
exceed 5:1 during the project implementation period.
5.13      Interest Rate Spread:  Under the first project, the Government
and the Bank agreed that KTDC should have a minimum spread of 2.25% for
individual loans and KTDC undertook to achieve an overall average spread of
2.5%, both of which are slightly higher than those accorded to Bank-
supported DFCs in Korea for subloans financed out of the proceeds of Bank
loans. Higher spreads than those for DFCs are justified and necessary for
KTDC, not only because its operations are risky, but also because other
financial institutions have access to more profitable sources of interest
income not available to KTDC, such as interest on reserves maintained at
the Bank of Korea. Besides, R&D operations are usually smaller in size and
require intensive staff inputs. KTDC's majority shareholders are private
sector firms, who, naturally, would expect KTDC to become financially
profitable and to yield a fair return on their investments in due course.
It has been agreed that KTDC would charge interest on local currency as
well as foreign exchange subloans made as conventional loans, which when
taken together with other changes and fees levied by KTDC on such subloans,
would provide KTDC with a differential of at least 2.5% above the
respective cost of funds to KTDC.
5.14      Financial Projections:  KTDC's financial projections have been
prepared based on the assumptions detailed in Annex 9. Three major
assumptions made are:
(a)  the effective interest spread would be 2.5% for all
conventional loans financed from all sources (para 5.13);
(b)  the failure rate of conditional loans and equity invest-
ments would be 30%; and
(c)  the successful equity investments could be sold at 3 times
the original investment at the end of the fifth year of
operations.



- 27 -
As experienced in other countries which are at an early stage of technolog-
ical development, Korean industrialists have been focusing the majority of
their R&D investments on relatively low-risk quick-return projects which
are abundant in the country. As the technological capability increases and
such low risk R&D investments are gradually exhausted, Korean industry
would gradually shift its focus to the higher end of the technological
sprectrum, which would naturally result in high-risk and high-return
projects. Given the Bank's experience in countries at a similar stage of
technological development, these assumptions appear to be reasonable.
5.15      KTDC's projected financial position is summarized below, while
details are shown in Annex 10, and sensitivity analysis in Annex 11.
Table 5.2: KrDC - Projected Financial Position
1984    1986    1990
TWon Billion)
Gross income                         (0.7)    2.3      5.9
Net income                           (0.7)    1.7      3.6
Portfolio:
Conventional loans                   73.2   135.8   182.4
Conditional loans                     3.0     4.2    10.4
Investments                           2.6    12.7    47.1
Subtotal                       78.8   152.7   239.9
Long-term debt                       77.6   160.0   203.7
Equity                               16.8    37.1    63.2
Gross return on total assets (M)    N.A.    0.8        2.1
Debt equity ratio            (times)  4.6     4.3      3.2
KTDC is expected to generate a net income of W 0.6 billion in 1985, and to
wipe out its accumulated losses by 1986. Returns on total assets during
the late 1980s are expected to be in the range of 0.8x-1.3X. The projected
financial performance is typical of an organization such as KTDC because of
the inherently high risk and long gestation period of R&D projects and the
long time needed to develop a large and well-diversified portfolio of
conditional loans and equity investments. To finance its operations beyond
the proposed project, KThC would require additional equity of W 16 billion
and local long-term debt of W 53.0 billion as well as foreign exchange
loans of about US$106 million during 1987-90. Towards the end of the
1980s, KTDC is expected to be ready to raise an increasing proportion of
its long-term resources on a commercial basis.
5.16      Of the three major assumptions listed in para 5.14, KTDC's
profitability is most sensitive to the effective interest rate spread



- 28 -
throughout the 1984-1990 period, reflecting the relatively high proportion
of conventlonal loans in KTDC's loan and investment portfolio.  In parallel
with the gradual increase in the proportions of risk-sharing operations in
KTDC's portfolio (para 4.06), KTDC's profitability would become increasing-
ly more sensitive to the failure rate and the capital gains to be realized
from these operations (Annex 11). Two main conclusions are derived from
these projections and sensitivity analysis:
(a) Ensuring an adequate Interest rate spread for conventional
loans is critical for KTDC's financial viability; and
(b) Improving KTDC's operational effectiveness and efficiency
involved in conditional loans and equity investments would
be vital for KTDC to establish a stable long-term resource
base.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
5.17      Since mDst of KTDC's subloans are relatively small (US$300,000
equivalent, on average) and finance many hardware and software items
available only from a limited number of suppliers, procurement under the
first project was made through international or local shopping in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. This method of
procurement, which has worked to the Bank's satisfaction under the first
project, would be continued under the proposed Project. Consulting
services will be engaged in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981).
5.18      The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported equipment and materi-
als, (b) 100% of total expenditures for services and training, and (c) 60%
of local expenditures for goods purchased off-the-shelf in Korea or for
locally manufactured equipment and materials. All contracts for procure-
ment of goods below US$100,000 equivalent will be disbursed against state-
ments of expenditures (SOEs). In addition, all contracts for procurement
of services below US$50,000 equivalent and for training expenses below
US$50,000 will be disbursed against SOEs. Related documents will be
retained by KTDC and made available for Inspection by Bank supervision
missions. Contracts for amounts above US$100,000 equivalent will require
full documentation. Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million is
expected (para 5.07). The Government and KTDC have agreed to the proposed
procurement and disbursement procedures. KTDC also agreed to establish a
Special Account (US$4 million equivalent) to facilitate the disbursement
process. As shown in Annex 12, the Bank loan is expected to be fully
committed by end-1986 and fully disbursed by December 1988.4/ Thus the
loan closing date is proposed to be June 30, 1989.
4/ Slightly longer than the average disbursement profile for DFCs in
Korea due to the nature and uncertainties of KTDC-financed projects.



- 29 -
E. Accounts and Audit
5.19      KTDC prepares its accounts on a commercial basis and maintains
them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
practices. KTDC's accounts would be audited by an external auditor and
audited financial statements (including documents of SOEs) would be
submitted to the Bank within four months after the close of each fiscal
year. These arrangements are satisfactory.
F. Project Justification and Risks
5.20      Within a short period since its establishment, KTDC has
demonstrated th-. need and effectiveness of R&D financing activities in
Korea. In line with the Government's objective, KTDC has rigorously
promoted R&D projects among private sector firms and provided financial,
technical, marketing, and management support. Furthermore, based on its
operational experience and periodic studies conducted by its staff, KTDC is
expected to continue to identify constraints and barriers in the existing
policy environment designed to promote innovation by industry and to
consultant frequently with relevant government agencies on measures to
address these problems. The Bank's continued involvement in the institu-
tion building of KTDC through the proposed project will help KTDC to
continue to fulfill and reinforce its catalytic function in further expand-
ing industry's R&D activities, promoting closer coordination between non-
profit research institutes and private industry, accelerating technology
development among SMIs, and broadening the use of risk-sharing financial
Instruments.
5.21      Unlike most of its counterparts elsewhere in the world, which
are fully owned by their respective governments and supported by government
budgets, KTDC is majority-owned by the private sector. The benefits of
such an organizational and ownership structure have been obvious under the
first project. Entrepreneurship and dynamism have been maintained under an
independent Board and management. It continues to be of utmost importance
that KTDC maintain full operational and managerial autonomy in the future.
Equally important is the continued strong support of the Government, both
institutional and financial, to demonstrate Government's commitment to
KTDC's private shareholders and to maintain KTDC's financial viability
during the early years of operations until the institution can establish a
sufficiently large and well-diversified portfolio and becomes financially
independent and capable of mobilizing an increasing proportion of the
necessary resources from commercial sources.
5.22      As KTDC enters the second phase of its institutional development,
Its management and staff will have difficult tasks to perform. The great-
est of all will be maintaining the delicate balance between the important
intermediate- and long-term goals, such as the development of technology-
intensive SMIs and expansion of risk-sharing financing operations on the
one hand, and more Immediate needs, such as the establishment of a profit-
able and viable institution. It is imperative that KTDC achieve both of



- 30 -
these objectives if it is to continue to play a pioneering and leadership
role in R&D financing in Korea with the full support of the Government,
while simultaneously continuing to enjoy the confidence and broad support
of the private sector. Major risks for the project would rest in any
deterioration of the support and confidence currently entrusted to KTDC and
in KTDC's failure to maintain this delicate balance between medium-term and
more short-term goals.
5.23      In view of these risks, several provisions are included in the
project. First, KTDC would maintain a strong capital structure, which
would provide an adequate financial buffer if KTDC encounters major problem
loans. Second, the agreed interest rate differential on conventional loans
would provide KTDC a reliable source of income to support its early years
of operations when it aggressively promotes risk-sharing financing
operations and R&D activities among SMIs. Third, to avoid undue risks,
KTDC's conditional loans normally require a minimum repayment of loan
principal (usually 30%), and in some cases, collateral is required from
subborrowers with high credit risks. In addition, the Government has
agreed to cover losses incurred from KTDC's conditional loans.
Furthermore, as an exceptional arrangement, Korean tax law permits KTDC to
set aside loss provisions of 2% on the conditional loan portfolio, compared
with 1% allowed for loans for all financial institutions in Korea. In
order to further develop expertise on risk-sharing operations, KTDC will
continue to implement active staff development and training programs. For
this purpose and, in addition to the provisions in the proposed loan, UNDP
assistance has already been extended.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following major agreements and confirmations have been
obtained:
(a) The Government will hold periodic exchanges with the Bank
on its industrial technology development policies (para
2.28)
(b) KTDC will retain its ceiling of 7% on its total financial
commitment at any time to any single enterprise (para
3.04);
(c) KTDC shall review with the Bank by the end of each fiscal
year beginning 1984 (i) the operational targets with
respect to conditional loans, conventional loans and
equity investments to be approved during the following
year and (ii) the operational targets for further
promoting its support to small and medium industries
during the following fiscal year; and on the basls of such



- 31 -
reviews, introduce such modifications to these targets as
shall be mutually acceptable to KTDC and the Bank (paras
4.04 and 4.06);
(d) The Government will provide additional funds to cover
losses suffered by KTDC on account of conditional loans
made out of the proceeds of the proposed loan (para 4.06);
(e) KTDC will adopt the features of the proposed loan with
regards to lending terms (para 5.04), subloan size, the
diversification of subborrowers and free limit (para
5.05), and retroactive financing (para 5.07);
(f) The Government will (i) increase KTDC's authorized capital
to at least W 37 billion by end 1984; (ii) provide KTDC
with additional subscription to the paid-in capital of W 3
billion on or before December 31, 1985; (iii) provide KTDC
with the Government loans of up to W 20 billion on or
before December 31, 1985, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank; and (iv) provide the guarantee to
KTDC debentures amounting to W 30 billion on or before
December 31, 1985, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (paras 5.10 and 5.11);
Cg) KTDC will raise W 13.3 billion in subscription to the
paid-in capital from private sector during 1984-86
(para 5.11);
(h) The Government and KTDC will adhere to a schedule for
making revisions to allow the proposed capital increase in
the KTDC Act, Enforcement Decree, and the Articles of
Incorporation as necessary (para 5.11);
Ci) KTDC will obtain the Bank's consent prior to contracting
any long-term debt(s), if such debt(s) would cause KTDC's
debt/equity ratio to exceed 5:1 (para 5.12);
(J) KTDC's effective minimum spreads on all conventional
loans, when taking into account other charges and fees
levied by KTDC, will be no less than 2.5% (para 5.13); and
(k) The Government and KTDC will follow the proposed
procurement and disbursement procedures and will establish
a special account of US$4 million equivalent (para 5.18).
6.02      Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent to be made to KTDC and
guaranteed by the Government. Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million
for the financing of KTDC's subprojects is also recommended.



- 32 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Statistics on Research and Development in Korea
This Annex contains selected statistics referred to In Chapter II
of the main text. Sources of these statistics include UNESCO, Ministry of
Science and Technology (Korea), National Science Foundation (United States)
and the Agency for Science and Technology (Japan).
I.                      Korea - R&D Spending by Sector
(Won billion, current prices)
Government   Non profit
Institutes   Institutes      Industry      University          Total
Korea    Amount   X   Amount   Z    Amount   %    Amount   Z    Amount   Z
1976       20.4   34    23.3   38       15.1   25       1.9    3      60.9  100
1980       47.7   23    56.8   27       81.4   38      25.9   12    211.7  100
1981       42.3   15   103.0   35    120.7   41        27.2    9    293.1  100
1982       55.0   12   131.0   29    205.0   45        66.6   15    457.7  100
TI.         R&D Spending by Sector-International Comparison (2)
Government   Non profit
Country  Year   Institute    Institute    Industry        University    Total
Korea    1982       12            29           45             15           100
USA      1982       13             6           72              9           100
France   1979       24             1           60             16           100
Japan    1980       13             3           67             17           100
III.       Proportion of Overall R&D Spending by Nature of Activity(%)
Basic Research Applied Research  Development   Total
Korea
1974               26               44              30          100
1979               23               30              47          100
1981               24               29              47          100
USA
1980               12               21              67          100
Japan
1981               14               26              60          100
West Germany,F.R   Basic & Applied
1977                       22                       78          100



- 33 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
IV.            Korea - R&D Spending Per Researcher by Sector
(Won million, current prices)
Public Sector
Research Institute         University   Industry   All Sectors
Government Non profit
1976         8.2         21.2               0.4         4.6         5.2
1980        21.7         23.6               3.0        15.8        11.5
1981        19.6         35.4               3.2        16.8        14.1
1982        19.8         39.1               5.4        20.6         16.1
V.       Ratio of Industry's R&D Expenditures to Total Sales Revenue(%)
Korea
USA      Japan
1979     1980      1981     1982    1980      1980
All Manufacturing:       0.33      0.50     0.67      0.65    2.1        1.48
Foodstuff              0.25     0.36      0.30      0.33    N.A.       N.A.
Textile                0.33     0.53      0.72      0.23    N.A.       N.A.
Chemicals              0.13     0.26      0.52      0.58    3.2        2.55
Metal Products         N.A.     0.54      0.80      0.95    1.2        N.A.
General Machinery      0.84      1.23     0.97      1.21    N.A.       1.90
Electric Machinery/
Electronics            1.52      1.90     1.73      2.44    3.9        3.71
Transportation
Machinery              0.55      0.62     0.51      0.73    N.A.       2.34
VI.                   R&D Personnel per 10,000 Employees
Korea (1982) USA(1980) Japan (1980)
All Manufacturing Industry            140          290        277
Foodstuff                           117          80         191
Textile                              46           30        125
Chemlcals                           159         410         588
Metal Products                      141          140        227
General Machinery                   188         370         299
Electronic Machinery/Electronics  251           440         609
Transportation Machinery            141         280         275



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea - Selected Incentive Schemes for R&D Activities
1.        Current expenditures for R&D including personnel costs are
deductable for income tax purposes. Physical and human capital
expenditures necessary for upgrading industry's own technological
capabilities, including industry's research institutes, research equipment,
and manpower development and training, are allowed tax credit of 8-1OZ. An
accelerated depreciation (50-90% depreciation in the first year) for R&D
related capital investment is also allowed. Furthermore, imported R&D
equipment enjoys substantial reduced import duties.
2.        To encourage the commercialization of RD&E results, a 6% tax
credit or a special accelerated depreciation (50% in the first year) for
investments for the commercialization of new and/or improved technology.
To encourage demand, reduced excise tax rates (30-90% reduction) are
applicable to new products that have significant importance for technology
development and export promotion during an introductory period of up to
four years.
3.        The Government also encourages transfer of technology through tax
incentives. Transfer costs of patent rights and technology import fees are
deductible for income tax purposes. Similarly, the income generated from
technology consulting activities are exempted from income tax. Foreign
engineers are also exempted from income tax.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Types of R&D Projects Financed by KTDC
KTDC promotes and finances the following types of projects:
1. Loans for in-house R&D costs and/or for the cost of
contracts for technological development with
external research organizations;
2. Investments and loans for initial efforts for the
commercialization of the results of research &
development and/or investigation and arrangements
related thereto;
3. Loans for technology import/or loans for adoption
and improvement of imported technology;
4. Loans for engineering costs associated with
construction of industrial facilities;
5. Technical advisory services to the industrial
enterprises with respect to the business activities
pursuant to the provision from item (1) through (4)
and/or technical feasibility surveys for other R&D
facilities; and Loans for invitation; and
6. Utilization of foreign specialists and technical
advisers, and for training of R&D personnel
domestically and abroad.



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
KDREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPPENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOY DEVELOP Ir PROJECr
Orgamiutlom marwt
Shareholders' Meetlng
Board of Directors
Executive Director
Committee
Praesident
[_3_
Technical
Auditor                                                Riew & Advisory
Goinittee
Excecutive Vice President|
|Executive DLretr||hct   Direco
Planning and Adminis-
Appraisal Department          Appraisal Department II         Credit Department           trative Department
Mining                        Food and Beverage             Coltuent of loan             Secretarial Affairs
Iran and Steel                Petroleuo, Derivatives          and Investment             Personnel Affairs
Non-Ferrous Metal             Chemical, Rubber, Plastic    Procurment                    General Affairs
Machinery                     Pharmaeeuticals               Follow-up of Collateral      Planning
Transportation Equipment      Paper, Pulp and Timber        Collection of Royalty,       Raising and Use of Fund
Electric Equipment            Textlle                         Principal & Interest       Economic Research
Electronic Equipment          Leather                       Information Exchange         Legal Affairs
Construction                  Ceramics                        with Fin. Institutions    Budget Control
Engineering                   Venture Capital NpMw.         Project Supervision          Others



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KTDC - Financial Support by Subsector
(No. of Projects)
Machinery/Metal             1981a/        1982        1983          Total
Industrial Machinery          1            10          12            27
General Machinery             -             8           8            16
Machinery Parts               5            10           28           39
Metal                         4             2           6            11
Subtotal                     14            30          54            98
Subtotal (Won Billion)        1.8           6.9        17.4          26.1
Electronics/Electric
Semiconductor                 3             4           3            10
Computer                      1            11          11            21
Telecommunications Equipt.   4              2          10            12
Electric Components           2             2           9            11
Electric Machinery            4             3          12            15
Subtotal                     14            22          45            81
Subtotal (Won Billion)       1.6           7.6         16.8          26.0
Chemicals/Miscellaneous
Fine Chemical                 7             8          10            24
Petrochemical                 4             7          10            21
General Chemical              6             4           5            15
Textile and Others            4             9          42            29
Subtotal                     21            28          42            91
Subtotal (won Billion)        2.7           7.6        15.7          26.0
a/ Eight months' of operation.



ANNEX 6
-38 -                             Page 1 of 2
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Examples of KTDC-supported Projects
A. Development of Programable Controller
KTDC invested W 80 million in a new company for a programable
controller (P/C) development project. The company was founded by three
technological and managerial specialists. The proposed P/C is composed of
an 8 bit microprocessor (Z-80) and 32KB RON, 2KB RAM, and 4 pieces of 48
ports I/O boards at maximum. It is designed for the control of small-scale
machinery such as injection machines and elevators. The advent of a
universal P/C will help many domestic small- and medium-scale machinery
manufacturers who cannot establish and maintain their own digital control
development facilities and thereby advance factory automation, improve
production quality and productivity.
B. Development of Electro-Fax Master Paper and Fax Paper
KTDC financed an entrepreneur, who had developed office paper
supplies (electro-fax master paper and facsimile paper), to commercialize
his innovations. Technology related to the manufacture of the products is
sophisticated since it involves a series of technical processing skills,
especially in raw materials selection, blending, coating and finishing and
has only recently been introduced in developing countries.
Paralleling the growth of office automation, the demand for such
products has been increasing at an annual rate of more than 25%. The
domestic demand in 1983 was some US$3 million. The technology acquired
would also contribute to the development of related paper goods such as NCR
paper, condenser paper and color master paper. In addition to a
conditional loan of W 120 million, 50% of the total project cost, KTDC
provided the company with various managerial services relating to
accounting, management and marketing.
C. Development and Commercialization of Automatic Voltage Regulator
The product is a kind of slide-type automatic AC voltage
regulator which has been developed through the new concept of an on-load
tap changer. The use of two metal brushes and a low-cost El transformer
instead of carbon brushes and expensive ring-type transformer which were
used exclusively in traditional slide-type AVRs, makes the product highly
price competitive and reliable. KTDC arranged the business by mediating
activities between the inventor and entrepreneur and extended W 200 million
of risk-sharing financing. There is a large export potential fo: this
product particularly to developing countries.



39 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
D. Development of Drive Pin
The products are advanced nails which in contrast to conventional
ones, can secure hard materials such as concrete-to-concrete and
steel-to-steel by using a hand held compressed air tool or blank fire gun.
The loan exposure amounted to W 80 million, which comprises 88% of the
total project cost of W 90 million. Domestic demand has been
substantially increased from W I billion in 1979 to W 5 billion in 1982,
reflecting the active construction sector. But to date the demand has
completely been met through imports. With the development of the products,
foreign exchange savings are expected to amount to W 6 billion annually and
exports will be much higher.
E. Commrcialization of Miniature Planes
The project sponsor plans to develop various kinds of low-cost
gliders and miniature planes and supply them to the students of Korea and
furthermore, to expand overseas markets with continuous R&D activities. In
addition to the financial support, KTDC has arranged for a capable
capitalist to joint his project with the original inventor of the proposed
technology. The project will contribute to the enhancement of the
scientific orientation of the pupils by enabling them to assemble and fly
the proposed products by themselves.
F. Fuel Injection Pump Components for Diesel Engines
The project was to locally produce the nozzle, holder and timer
parts for diesel engines which had been entirely imported. In addition,
under the proposed project, the sponsor planned to develop a new injection
housing model for agricultural machinery and marine engines in order to
meet export demand. The project sponsor already carried out the project
successfully and has been supplying the injection pump to diesel engine
makers. The project sponsor was decorated with the lIndustrial Copper
Tower" by the Government in recognition of his pioneering efforts.
G. Development of CAB Resin Products
The project is to develop a plastic substitute for metallic
materials (stainless steel or aluminum) used for decorative and protective
purposes such as linings for automobiles and electric home appliances.
Aluminum foil is coextruded with newly developed vegetal CAB (Cellulose
Acetate Butyrate) resin characterized by its superior properties in
physical strength, transparency, polished appearance and
weather-resistance. The proposed project will strengthen Korea's
competitiveness in the export market through cost reduction and quality
improvement achieved by weight and fuel savings in automobiles and by
excellent decoration in electric home appliances, etc. Also, *t will
contribute to the improvement in the coextrusion technology of metal with
plastics.



- 40 -
ANNEX 7
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KTDC - Financial Support by Size of Company
Number of Project:          1981          1982        1983         Total
Large companies           33            39          71           143
Small and medium          16           41           70           127
Total                     49           80          141           270
Financing Amount(Won Billion)
Local Currency Financing:
Large companies           4.3           5.4        17.9           27.6
Small and medium          1.8          3.7          9.8           15.3
Subtotal                  6.1          9.1         27.7           42.9
Foreign Currency Financing:
Large companies           -            10.8        17.6           28.5
Small and medium                       2.2          4.5            6.7
'I-btotal                 -           13.0         22.1           35.2
Total Financing:
Large companies           4.3          16.2        35.6           56.1
Small and medium          1.8          5.9         14.3           22.1
Total                     6.1         22.2         49.9           78.1
Notes: 1. Small and medium industries are defined here as enterprises with
assets not more than Won 500 million (about US$630,000) or with
fewer than 300 employees, except for those subsector industries
where the employment ceiling was raised to 500. (The Small and
Medium Industry Promotion Law).
2. There was no foreign currency operation during 1981. The First
Technology Development Project (Loan 2112-KO) was approved in
March 1982.



- 41 -
APItE 8
RNFA rUfl~T  nV~fr   aw
SEaD TEOflR Y  EE          r P     r
MUC- Flnancial Support by Finania Izurwents
Ahount(Won, Billim)         1981             1982              1983              Total
Actual Apprisae/ hAlC3   Appasa/ Actul App isaL Actul Appaisal
Fstk.te           Fsatmte            Ftt e            Estimate
With Colateral         3.5    N..        11.5     N.A.    18.2       N.A.  33.2       NA.
Witbout Collateral    2.1    N.A.        8.5      N.A.    29.7       N.L   40.3       N.A.
Sub-total            5.6    3.3        20.0    11.4       47.9    14.4   73.5    29.1
Cooiitional Loan      0.5    0.2         1.8      2.1       1.0      5.2    3.3       7.6
Equity Investmnet     0.0    0.0         0.3      0.7       1.0      1.0    1.3       1.7
Granl Itil           6.1    3.5        22.1      2.8      49.9      6.2   78.1    38.4
M~ndal  a:
With Collateral       57      N.A.      52        N.A.    36         N.A.  42         N.A.
WitbDut Cmllateral   35       N.A.      39        N.A.     60        N.A.   52        N.A.
Sub-total          92      97         91       80        96       70      94       76
ConditionalLoan       8       3          8       14         2       25       4       19
Equity Invmstant      0       0          1        6         2        5       2        5
Grand Total        100    100        100      100       100      100     100      1D0
a! First Technolgy teveloprnt Project: SAR ND. 3707-KD of February 25, 1982.



ANNIEX 9
-42 -
Pap I of S
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPIENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPEN1T PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS NADE ON FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS 1984-1990
The folloming assumptions were made in projecting KTDC's financial statemnts for
the 1984-1990 period:
(FIGURES TN MILLION NON)
ACTUALS                                          FORECAST
A. OPERATIONAL TAR6ETS            1981     1982     1983          1984     1985     1986    1987      1988    1989    1990
1. APPROYALS
LOCAL CURRENCY: TOTAL           6,092    9,147   27,730         39,800   44,000   49,000   56,000   60,000   65,000  70,000
CONYENTIONAL    5,572    7,604   25,803        35,100   38,720   41,650   45,920   48,000   52,000   52,500
CONDITIONAL       520    1,243      970           940     980    1,470    1,690    1,900    2,600    2,900
EQUITY              0      300      957         3,760    4,400    5,980    9,400   10,200   10,400   14,700
FOREIGN CURRENCY:TOTAL               0   13,016  22,139         15,200   18,000   20,000   22,000   22,000   22,000   22,000
CONVENTIONAL       0   12,442   22,138         15,200   16,920   18,400   20,020   19,800   19,00   19,250
CONDITIONAL         a      574        0            0       180      400      440      440      660      660
EQUITY              0       0        0             0       900    1,200    1,540    1,760    1,540    2,090
TOTAL APPROVALS: TOTAL          6,092   22,163   49,968         55,000   62,000   69,000   78,000   B2,000   97,000   92,000
CONVENTIONAL   5,572   20,046   47,941         50,300   55,640   60,050   65,90   67,800   71,900   71,750
CONITIONAL        520    1,817      970           940    1,060    1,870    2,120    2,240    3,260    3,460
EQUITY              0     300       957         3,760    5,300    7,080    9,940   11,960   11,940   16,790
2. DISBURSENENTS
LOCAL CURRENCY:  TOTAL           1,149    5,774   16,908        33,762   41,994   46,559   52,521   58,012   62,580   67,520
CONVENTIONAL    1,149    4,736   15,777        30,452   36,910   40,195  43,795   46,960   50,000   52,250
CONDITIONAL         0      939     935            952      904    1,234    1,596    1,752    2,2P0    2,720
EQUITY              0      100      196         2,359    4,080    5,140   7,140    9,300   10,300   12,550
FOREIGN CURRENCY:TOTAL               0    4,122    8,163        16,439   19,049   18,038  20,090   21,396  22,110  22,110
CONVENTIONAL        0    3,952    8,020        16,178   18,491   16,676   18,294   19,306   19,988   19,635
CONDITIONAL         0      170      143          261       108      312      424      440      572      660
EQUITY              0        0       0              0      450    1,050    1,370    1,650    1,650    1,815
GRAND TOTAL:     TOTAL           1,149    9,996  25,071         50,201   60,943   64,597   72,609   79,408   84,690  89,630
CONVENTIONAL    1,149    8,688  23,797         46,630   55,401   56,861   62,079  66,266  69,988   71,885
CONDITIONAL         0    1,108    1,078         1,213    1,012    1,546    2,020   2,192    2,852    3,390
EQUITY              0      100      196         2,359    4,530    6,190    8,510   10,950   11,950   14,365



- 43 -                           ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
B. BORROWINGS FROM THE GOVERNMENT
1. Borrowing rate: 8.5% p.a.
2. Maturity:
(a) Borrowings in 1981: 10 years including grace period
of 5 years;
(b) Borrowings after 1981: 15 years including grace period
of 5 years.
C. DEBENTURES
1. KTDC debentures would be issued as follows:
--Issue---         Amount       Discount  Maturity       Interest Rate
No.     Date    Million Won        X        Years                Z
1.      1983       15,500          7          5       12.51/; 10.42/ 10.83/
2.      1983       10,000          5          4   )            11.0 1/
3.      1984       20,000        1.5          4   )            10.4 2/
4.       1985      10,000        1.5          4   )            10.8 _
5.      1988       40,000        1.5          4                10.8
6.      1989       15,000        1.5          4                10.8
2.  Interest Rate Support:  The Government's interest support on KTDC
debentures would be as follows:
Issuance Rate - Lending Rate (10%)
+ (Discount/Maturity) + Margin (2.5%)
3.  Issuing Costs:  1.3% of issuing amount.
11 1st year.
2/ 2nd and 3rd year.
3/ 4th and 5th year.
4/ 4th year.



- 44 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
D. EQUITY: Equity would be raised as shown. Stock
costs have been assumed to be 2.5% of issuing amount.
1984     1985      1986     1987    1988      1989      1990
Gov't      2,000    3,000    4,000        0         0        0         0
Private    2,000    6,300    5,000    5,000    5,000    3,000    3,000
Total      4,000    9,300    9,000    5,000    5,000    3,000    3,000
E. FOREIGN BORROWINGS:
----Borrowing-                              Front end  Commit-
Amount           Exch.   Interest    Fee        ment   Maturity/
No.  (Million Won) Year  Rate I/   %            2         2      Grace
1.     39,000      1982   750        11.6     1.50      0.75   14/5 years
2.     40,000      1984   800        10.0     0.25      0.75   1513 years
3.     35,000      1986   800        10.0     0.25      0.75   15/3 years
4.     10,000      1988   800        10.0     0.25      0.75   15/3 years
5.     30,000      1990   800        10.0     0.25      0.75   15/3 years
I/ To the US$ Dollar.
F. KRTDC LENDING TERMS
1. Conventional loans:
Local Currency            Foreign Currency
(a)  Interest              10% p.a.           10%   p.a. (lst loan)
12.5% p.a. (2nd project
and thereafter)
(b)  Commitment fees       0.5% p.a.          1.5%  p.a.
(c)  Maturity              4.5 years          7.0   years
(d)  Grace Period          1.5 years          2.5   years
Note: Conventional loans extended without collateral, which would account
for 55% the overall portfolio, would have an additional 1% surcharge.



- 45 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
2. Conditional loans: Conditional loans do not have a fixed repayment
schedule. The return on such loans is in the form of negotiated
royalty payments (about 5% of sales) from successful subprojects.
it has been assumed that:
(a) 30% of the subprojects fail, while 70% suceed;
(b) for failed subprojects, KTDC will recover only 30X of the
principal (recovery assumed in the fourth year);
(c) for successful projects, KTDC will recover principal and
interest in the form of royalty payments as follows:
Year:        0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7   Total
Principal    (100)  4   21   24   30   21    -    -    100
Royalties       -    -    -   13   20   29   50   38    150
Total       (100)  4   21   37   50   50   50   38    250
The imputed ex ante rate of return for a successful subproject is
23% while that of the overall portfolio of conditional loans (including
failures) is 15%.
3. Equity Investments: It has been assumed that:
(a) 30% of the subprojects fail, while 70X suceed;
(b) for failed subprojects, KTDC will recover no original
investment; and
Cc) for successful subprojects, KTDC will be able to sell out
its equity investment with a capital gain of 200% in the
fifth year in addition to modest dividends receipts as shown
below:
Year:        0    1    2    3    4    5
Investment   (100%)                      (100%)
Dividends    (100)  -    -    5   10    15
Capital Gain   -    -    -    -    -   200
Total         (100)  0    0    5   10   315
The imputed ex ante rate of return for a successful subproject Is 27% while
that of the overall portfolio of equity investments (including failures) is 18%.



- 46 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
G. DISBURSEMENT PATTERNS: The disbursement patterns shown in Table A2
above were based on the following assumptions:
1. Conventional loans:
Year:         0         1        2
Local Currency         50%      50%       -
Foreign Currency       30%      30%      40%
2. Conditional loans:
Year:         0         1
Disbursement          60%       40%
H. PROVISION FOR BAD DEBT: The rates allowed under Korean tax laws are:
1. Conventional loans: 1% of disbursed amounts
2. Conditional loans: 2% of disbursed amounts
In addition, starting 1985 for equity investments, 2X of the invested
amounts is set aside as provision for failure, taking into account the KTDC
management's plan to initiate a discussion with the government to revise Korea
tax laws to allow such provisions.
I. DEPRECIATION RATES (on straight line methods):
1. Front-end fee: 11 years
2. Fixed assets: 10 years
3. Bond/Stock issue costs: 3 years
4. Discount on bonds: (a) 5 years for first issue
(b) 4 years for subsequent issues
J. OTHERS
1. Earnings on liquidity (cash/cash equivalents and convertible
bonds): 12% p.a.
2. Administrative expenses: assume to increase at 10% p.a.



- 47 -
Age  1 0
Pap I of 3
K 0 R E A
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPHENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FUNDS FLOM STATENENT
(FIGURES IN NILLION) MO)
ACTUALS                                        FORECAST
SOURCES                          1991    1982    1993           1994    19        1996    1997    1999    1939    190
MET INCOME                        (2B)   (4003  (1,056)         (717)    597   1,691    1,969   2,106    2,43    3,556
DEPRECIATION L ANORTIZATION       203      164     55B           943   1,177       9o    1,044    1,082    1,165    1,148
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION     255    (2361    (499)          226    1,764    2,681    3,013    3,109    3,64    4,704
EQUITY- GOV'T.                  1,000    1,000    1,000        2,000    3,000    4,000       0        0        0        0
- PRIVATE                 6,553    1,266   3,860         2,000    6,300    5,000   5,000    5,000   3,000   3,000
BORROHINGS- GOV'T.              1,000    1,500    1,500        2,000   18,000   19,000       0        0        0        0
- BONDS (less Discount)        0        0  23,915        19,000    9,500        0       0  38,000   14,250         0
- FOREIGN                      0   4,122    9,163        16,439   19,049   19,039  20,069  21,396   22,110   22,110
REPAYMENT OF CDOV. LOANS            0       0      562         5,809   17,144   31,9800   44,913   54,95   60,341   63,164
ROYALTY FROIM CONDITIONAL LOANS     0        0      122          276      526      798      952     935    1,009    1,215
DISPOSAL OF EUITY INVESTMENT        0        0      100            0        0        0       0       196   1,651   3,171
LOSS PROVISIONS                    11      109     253           427      43       389      363     357      371      418
LOSSES ON LOANSIINV. PORTFOLIO      0        0       0             0        0      362     382   1,071    1,663   2,321
PROY. FOR SEVERANCE                39       49      59            65       72       79      87       95      105      115
INCR. IN CUR LIABILITIES           36     305      603         1,269    1,549   2,144   1,9    2,441   2,792    2,779
TOTAL                           8,894    8,115  39,639        49,510  77,395  83,291  76,694  127,65  110,929  102,997
__=_== =_= == _ _= ==  = _ =_ _=on=
APPLICATIONS
DISBURSENTS -CONVENTIONAL       1.149  8a,69   23,797         46,630  55,401   56,861   62,079  66,266  69,969  71,915
-CONDITIONAL          0   1,108   1,079           1,213    1,012    1,546   2,020   2,192   2,9852    3,310
-EQUITY INV           0      100      196        2,359   4,530   6,190   8,510   10,950   11,950  14,365
REPAYMENTS                          0        0       0             0        0      200   12,574   40,448   24,731   14,531
PAYMENT OF FRONT-END FEE            0      549       0           100        0       Be       0       25       75        0
DEFERRED CHARGES - ORGANIZING     334       0        0             0        0        0       0        0        0        0
- STOCKISSUE          0       56      120          100      233      225      125      125      75       75
- BOND ISSUE          0        0      332          260      130        0        0      520     195        0
- BOND DISCOUIT       0        0   1,585          1,000     500        0        0   2,000      750        0
NET INCR OF FIXED ASSETS          176       6       167           59       65       71      79       86        0        0
INCR. IN INTEREST RECEIVABLES     197      154     701           636    1,713    1,504    2,350    1,955   2,655    2,194
SEVERANCE PAYMENT                   0        8       3             0        0        0       0        0        0        0
OTHER APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS       641      169    1,,22            0        0        0        0       0        0        0
TOTAL                           2,487   10,837  29,101        52,356  63,594  66,684  97,737  124,567  113,171  106,430
INCREASE(DECREASE) IN CASH      6,407   (2,722)  10,539       (2,946) 13,801   16,607  (11,054)  3,098   (2,242)  (5,433)



- 48 -                                            ANNEX  10
Page 2 of 3
K O R E A
KOREA TECHNOL06Y DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCONE STATEMENT
(FIGURES IN NILLION WON)
AC T U Ai L 5                                    F O R E C A S T
REVENUES                           1981     1982     1983           1984     1985     1986      1987     1998     1999   .1"90
DIVIDENDS                             0        0        0              0        5       20       117      353      781    1,207
ROYALTIES                             0        0        5              9      144      362       647    1,129    1,489    19440
INTEREST ON LOANS                     8      412    2,627          7,902   12,587   16,031   17,803   19,242   20,462   21,416
CAPITAL 6AINS FRON EQ INV.            0        0        0              0        0        0         0      392    3,302    6,342
INTEREST ON DEPOSITSICASH           941      962    1,442          1,536    2,193    4,018    4,351    3,874    3,925    3,465
CONIITNEhET FEES                      5       85      240            430      427      436       471      496      506       509
INTERESI ON CONV. BONDS               0        6       24             55      116      193       275      363      457      561
NISCELLANEOUS                         0        0       57              0        0        0         0        0        0         0
TOTAL                               954    1,465    4,395          9,932   15,471   21,059   23,664   25,848   30,921   34,939
EXPENSES
INTEREST                             34      273    2,993          7,486   11,264   14,765   16,116   17,307   20,892   22,245
CONIThENT FEES                       0      155      240            289      306      392       474      318      267       214
DEPRECIATION & AMORTIZATION         293      164      558            943    1,177      "0    1,044    1,092    1,165    1,148
PERSONEL & ADMINISTRATION           612    1,112    1,244          1,440    1,584    1,742    1,917    2,108    2,319    2,551
PRMY. FOR SEVERANCE                  39       49       59             65       72       79        87       95      105       115
PROV. FOR LOSSES                     11      109      253            427      483      389       363      357      371       419
LOSSES ON LOA/INY. PORTFOLIO          0        0        0              0        0      362       392    1,071    1,663    2,321
ISCELLANEOUS                          3        3      104              0        0        0         0        0        0         0
TOTAL                               992    1,065    5,451         10,650   14,894   18,719   20,383   22,339   26,792   29,012
INCONE BEFORE TAXES                 (28)    (400)  (1,056)          4717)     587    2,340    3,281    3,510    4,139    5,927
ALLOWED CiN NIT                     (28)    (429)  (1,484)        (2,173)  (1,186)   1,623    3,281    3,510    4,139    5,927
TAXES                                 0        0        0              0        0      649    1,313    1,404    1,656    2,371
NET INCOME                          (28)    (400)  (1,056)          (717)     587    1,691    1,969    2,106    2,483    3,556



- 49 -                                     ABIIEX  10
Page 3 of 3
K O R E A
KSOND TECIUIUY DELOPEN CWUR
BANM SHEET
(FIMES in KILLION [)
ACTUALS                                      FORECAST
ASSETS                         1981    1992    1903          1984    199S    1996    1987    199       1989    1
CASH & CA  EQUIVALENTS        6,407   3,68   14,224        11,371  25,179  41,796  30,732  33,930  31,599  26,155
INTEREST RECEIVABLES            197     341   1,042         1,675   3,391   4,995   7,245   9,201  11,955  14,049
COII IONUL LOAWS              1,149   9,837  33,072        73,893  112,150  137,211  154,377 165,657 175,2   183,925
(PROVISION FOR 0AD DEBTS)      (II)    (99)   (332)         (741)  (1,123)  (1,374)  (1,546)  (1,659  (1,754)  (1,91)
CUEDITIOIUL LOANS                 0   1,109   2,064         3,001   3,497   4,235   5,303   6,560   9,403  10,569
(PROVISION FOR BAD DEBTS)       (0)    (22)    (41)          (60)    (70)   -(95)   (106)   (131)   (168)   (211)
EQUITY IN'ESTNIET                 0      100     196        2,Y55   7,095   13,275  21,195  32,539  42,839  54,032
IPROVISION FOR EQUITY LOSSES)    0       0        0            a     (91)   (214)   (385)   (6041   (9431 (1,1301
(LOSSES INCURRED)                0       0        0            0       0    (362)   (745)  (1,916)  (3,479)  (5,799)
FIXED ASSETS                    176      182     349          408     473      544     623      709     709     709
(CUM DEPRECIATION)             (29)    (71)   (103)         (144)   (191)   (246)   (309)   (311    (450)   (5213
PREPAID FRUIT-END FEE             0     527      497          541     495      530     477      448     463     403
DEFE8ED CHARGES                 334     390   2,427         3,797   4,649   4,174   4,999   7,644   9,664   9,739
*CU ANURTIZATION)             (254)   (354)   (40)        (1,696)  12,779)  (3,662)  (4,592)  (5,548)  (6,S93) (7,600)
OTHER L0N16TERN ASSET           641     909   1,931         1,931   1,931   1,931   1,931   1,931   1,931   1,931
TOTAL ASSETS                  9,600  16,434  54,475        96,530 154,595 203,337 219,792 249,382 268,390 283,410
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES              36      341     944        2,212   3,760   5,904   7,789  10,230  13,012  15,792
NVT LT DEBT                   1,000   2,500   4,000         6,000  24,000  41,800  41,450  40,950  40,250  37,750
BONDS                             0       0  23,915        42,915  52,415  52,415  42,415  44,915  49,165  49,165
IBID I OTHER LT DEBT              0   4,122   12,295       28,724  47,173  65,811  83,675  100,623 108,702 116,781
SERIICE LIABILITY                39      80      136          201     273      351     439     533      638     753
TOTAL LIABILITIES             1,075   7,043  41,280        80,053 129,221  166,291  175,767 197,251 211,767 220,240
ST EIUITY                     1,000   2,000   3,000         5,000   8,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000
PRIVATE EQUITY                6,553   7,819  11,679        13,679  19,979  24,979  29,979  34,979  37,979  40,979
RETAINED EARNINGS                (28)   (423)  (1,4841     (2,2021  (1,615)     17   2,045   4,151   6,635  10,191
TOTAL E0UITY                   7,525   9,391   13,195      16,477  26,364  37,056  44,024  51,130  56,614  63,170
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY    9,600  16,434  54,475        96,530 154,595  203,337 219,792 248,392 268,380 283,410
DEBITIEEIITY RATIO              0.1      0.7     3.0          4.7     4.7      4.3     3.8      3.6     3.5     3.2
RETURN ON ASSETS BRE TAX)    -0.3%   -2.6U   -2.7%           -2.3%   -0.9%     0.9%    1.5%    1.4%    1.52    2.1%
RETURN ON ASSETS (AFTER TAX)   -0.3%   -2.4%   -1.9Z         -0.7n    0.4%    0.9%     0.9%    0.89    0.9Z    1.3Z
RELIRN ON EQUITY (BERE TAX)    -0.41   -4.6%  -11.2%        -13.2%   -4.5%    4.4%    7.51    6.9%    7.3n    9.41
RETURN ON EQUITY (AFTER TAX)   -0.4%   -4.3%    -8.0%        -4.4%    2.2%    4.6%    4.51    4.11    4.4Z    5.6%



- 50 -
ANNEX 11
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMKARY OF SENSITI VITY ANALYSIS
Given the Agreement reached on the effective interest rate spread of
2.5% on all conventional loans, the remaining major uncertainties are
(a) the failure rates for kTDC's conditional loans and equity investments
and (b) the weighted averags capital gains from KTDC's successful equity
investments. Sensitivities of these uncertainties on KTDC's net income in
1988 and 1989 are shown below:
KTDC's Net Income in 1988
(Won Billion)
Average Capital Gains on Equity Investments
Failure Rate         150%        200% (Base Case)        250%
20%              2.1                 2.2              2.2
30% (Base Case)  2.0                 2.1              2.2
40%               1.9                2.0              2.1
KTDC's Net Income in 1989
(Won Billion)
Average Capital Gains on Equity Investments
Failure Rate         150%         200% (Base Case)       250%
20%              3.2                  4.4             5.6
30% (Base Case)  2.5                  3.6             4.6
40%               1.8                  2.7            3.6
It should be noted that there are only marginal differences in KTDC's net
income during the 1984-87 period. However, as the proportion of equity
investments and conditional loans increase, and the increasingly large
number of subprojects reveal their successes or failures (the average
gestation period being 4-5 years), KTDC's net income becomes increasingly
sensitive to the level of (a) and (b) above.



-51 -                              ANNEX 12
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD                        Disbursement (US$ Million)
Fiscal Year   Quarter                Ouarterly      Cumulative    Profile 1/
1985
II                     4.0          4.0           -
III                    1.5          5.5           0.5
IV                     2.0          7.5
1986         I                      3.0         10.5            7.5
II                     3.5         14.0
III                    3.5         17.5          18.5
IV                     4.0        21.5
1987         I                      4.0         25.5           30.0
II                     4.5        30.0
III                    4.5        34.5           40.0
IV                     4.5        39.0
1988         I                      3.5         42.5           46.0
II                     3.0        45.5
III                    1.5        47.0           49.0
IV                     1.0        48.0
1989         I                       1.0        49.0           50.0
II                     1.0         50.0
I/ Average for the IDF sector in Korea.



- 52 -
ANNEX 13
KOREA
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Korea - Revised Fifth Five-Year Plan
Chapter 3 -Technological Innovations and Increasing
Industrial Technological Capacity'
B.   KTDC - Roster of Shareholders
C.   KTDC - Statement of Investment and Operational Policies
D.   KTDC - Statement of Rules on the Lending and Equity
Participation
E.  UNDP - KTDC Institutional Development Project Documents
F.  KTDC - Organizational Chart
G.   Science and Technology Annual Report MOST, 1983
R.   Korea Technology Development Act and Enforcement Decree
I.   KTDC - Articles of Incorporation
J.   "The Venture Capital Industry in the United States'
KTDC Staff Working Paper, April 1984.
K.   "Measures for Vitalizing Venture Capital to Develop Advanced
Technology" KDB Monthly Economic Review, January 1984
L. KTDC - Corporation Agreements with KDIC, KTAC, SMIPC, KAIST and
Korea Exchange Bank



_________________2_                                                                           IBRD 12351R3
r - __DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC-                     I
CHINA   I                                   OF KOREA
,, rep..E Sost  Sea
REPOF
KVWlo. IEA  JAPAN'                                                                                             3r 
rbS  z>fA   SAPAN  Zr         ff  ~~~~GY  aG       J     G ANG    WEOX
Pac.f. c)
China Sao
e.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
37.-
3? '
f  esr   o  e"   >  _    <    >         w          X          ^    u    a    r4~~~r  U  
l   5   r<;K_ ~~~~~~~~N   f Al
C----.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Yellow    Sea                            -Po l
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~og
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N - Po.ct G Y dor..
0  EB                OF K0    REA
_T                     -    Pf nol boundo      A UT9
4   C     )                        C    2G   *C        0     )    2     0   o
+   S - D o                     C                  v.afs -O-
_   I?s   ___   12e'           '?^'                   '?''      PULIC  O 'KORE
P-01, ~       AUUS 1984






