The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rhped N. P-3882-KO
RORT AND E
OF THE
PRESIDENT  OF ME
INTERNATIONAL RANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIOf AND DEVELOIPMET
TO WeE
EXECUTE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSE LOAN
IN THE AIU  EQUIVALENT TO US11OI50    ION
TO TE
KOREA TECBNOLOGY DELOMT COlPORAIION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
TE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
.       SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
September 28, 1984
lbb deenno bw a        N - h   m   ma-y be ud by uV'    y I to dofgI  of
Im .r .Ed doIn. lb alb  mqfsoW ihs,be h  hdbcmi wlds Wedi Dmak soduSmwm.



CURRENY BIQVALEITS if
US1            = Won 799.20
SI million  = Mm 0.79 billion
was I             US$0.00125
won I million    US$1,251
Wgm I billion  - US$1,251,125
FISCAL vAR
Covermet: and I=DC - January 1- December 31
PRINCIPAL MBREVIATIONS AID AC1 5TNS USED
MUST Korea Advanced Insti tute of Science and Technology
KDB    Korea Developmet BRnk
KDIC   Korea Development Investent Corporation
KIET   Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
[TAC    Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KIDC   Korea Technology Development Corporation
DUDS?   Ministry of Sc.ence and rechnology
R&D    Research and Development
sfI    Small and NItium Industry
SMIPC  Small and Ned:u- Industry Promotion Corporation
TDR     Technology Development Reserve
MUDP   United Nations 1o-velopment Program
As of July 2, 1984.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOP-MENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Swuuary
Borrower:                  Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Korea
Amount:                     $50 million, incLuding the capitalized front-end
fee
Terms:                      Payable in 11 years including five years of grace
at che World Bank standard variable interest rate
Relending Terms:            KTDC would wass on the proceeds of the Bank loan to
the finaL beneficiaries in the following three
ways: (a) conventional loans to subborrowers with
a maximum term of 10 years including three years
grace with an effective spread of at least 2.5Z
above the respective cost of funds to KTDC;
(b) conditional loana, that would provide RTDC with
a partial claim on saLes revenues in the case of
successful projects but where KTDC would recover
onLy a portion (commonly 30%) of the loan if no
sales revenues are generated; (c) equity par-
ticipation in companies set up to commercialize R&D
results. The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by the subborrowers of loans and by KTDC on equity
investments.
Project Description:       The overall objective of the project is to foster
the technological development of Korean industry.
Specifically, the project would consist of two
major components:
(a) A line of credit to cover the estimated foreign
exchange requirements of subprojects to be financed
by KTDC during 1984-86; and
(b) Institutional development of KTDC, comprising:
(i) consulting services to support the operations
of KTDC and training of KTDC staff, both to further
deepen KTDC's capacity to identify, appraise, and
supervise R&D projects and to enable KTDC to carry
out surveys of the technological needs of Korean
industries; and (ii) purchase of training materials
for KTDC staff.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mihis docmtn hs a resuicted distibution and may be used bY recipients only in the perforguance of
their offia dues Its contents nay not otherwise be didsclsd without World Bank authorizatio



- S1 -
Risks:                      Project risks are related mainly to the trade-offs
between XIDC's intermediate and long-term goals,
such as the development of SKIs and expansion of
risk-sharing operations, and more isumediate needs,
such as the establishment of a profitable and
viable institution. Provisions have been included
in the project to mitigate this risk substantially.
V Billion  US$ Million   Z
Financing PLan:             Equity
C1984-86)                  Private                   13.3         16.6        9
Government                 9.0        11.3        6
Subtotal               22.3         27.9      15
Long-Term Loans
Government                37.8        47.3       27
RIDC Bonds                28.5        35.6       20
IBiD (lst and 2nd
loan)                  53.5         66.9      38
Subtotal              119.8        149.8      85
Total financing Required  142.1        177.7      100
Estimated
Disbursements:              Bank FT     1985    1986   1987   1988   1989
US$ millinn
Annual       7.5    14.0   17.5   9.0       2.0
Cumulative   7.5    21.5   39.0   48.0   50.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:                     No. 5213-KO
map:                          IBRD No. 12351R2



REPORT AND RECOtDMEATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERIATIONAL BAmK FOR RECONSTRUCrI0N AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOMA
TO THE KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMT CORPORATION
FOR A SECOIID TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMET PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC), with the guarantee of
the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $50.0 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a second Technology Development
project. The loan would have a term of 11 years, includnag five years of
grace at the standard variable interest rate. The terms applicable to
subborrovers for conventional loans would have a maximum repayment period of
10 years, including 3 years of grace at an interest rate, together with fees
and charges, which would allow KrfC an effective minimum spread of 2.5% p.a.;
conditional loans would provide royalty payments calculated as a percentage of
sales revenue in lieu of principal repayment and interest.
PA2T I - THE ECONONY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following surary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing countries,
heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments position
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the ability to sustain a
growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's per capita income from
$80 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices), with more than 80% of
the population above the poverty line, and enabled her to join the ranks of
the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the share of the manufac-
turing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 292 while the share of agriculture fell
from 392 to 17Z. Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods, accoun-
ted for almost 41Z of GNP as against a mere 4Z two decades earlier and the
balance of payments position had been considerably strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
7Os.



- 2 -
Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        Foreign borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and ezport
diversification resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the
country to negotiate the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter,
to grow by 102 p.a. until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean
planners in stimulating the economy generated serious inflationary pres-
sures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18Z between 1975-78, well
in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) was increasing at over 18Z p.a., compared to a rate of 10Z in 1977. In
addition, the large volume of subsidized credit which was made available to
the heavy and chemical industries by the financial system under the Govern-
ment s direction, brought about an excessive expansion of capacity in
subsectors faced with weak demand while the traditional light industries were
frequently starved of funds. This trend was in line with the Government's
view of Korea's changing comparative advantage, but it created structural
imbalances in the manufacturing sector and in conjunction with exchange rate
rigidity and a rising price level, dampened export growth in the latter part
of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
met by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from aoout $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
6Z of GCP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricultural output by about 222 in 1980, or over 46  of CUP, and a 202 decline
in investmet led to a worsening of deflationary pressures that outweighed the
102 growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2Z in 1980, unemploy-
ment increased to 5.22 from 3.22 in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29Z.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment; the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30Z in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by LO in 1980 land a further 172 in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.42 of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.42
of GCP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.32 cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5.02 drop in the previous year, together with some lerelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable develop-
ments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.32 and
the payments deficit to 3.92 of GlP, largely because of movements in the terms
of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather more
conservative fiscal and monetary policies.



- 3 -
8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicato-s offered hearcen-
ing evidence of progress  -ith adjustment, growth in i982 (5.3X) was appreci-
ably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand inc-eased only
moderately, and the 6% rise in exports came largely from a surge in sales of
ships. Hence, in the first half of 1983 the Government moved to stimulate
domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of the total
budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This served to
stimulate construction accivities in the public sector, but the expectations
generated by the Government's counter cyclical action together with the pros-
pects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a boom in the
private housing and real estate markets, and in the industries supplying
inputs for construction activities. The recovery in export demand for
electronics, machinery and transport subsectors from about the middle of 1983
helped to sustain the tempo of economic activity through the last two quarters
with the result that GNP grew by over 9Z.
Mediunr-Term Prospects
9.        As was the case during the 1970s, Korea's rate of growth during the
1980s will be determined largely by the performance of exports on the one hand
and savings on the other. The revised version of the Fifth Plan aims for a
growth rate target of 7.5Z which is to be achieved via an export growth rate
of 10% and a national savings rate of 29%. All this is to be accomplished in
an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in the balance of payments.
The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-imposed constraints are
tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will be required over the next
few years.
10.       Export performance over the Last eighteen months has been very
encouraging. Merchandise exports grew by 12% during 1983 and present indica-
tions are that this rate has been surpassed in the first half of 1984.
However, this performance has been tied largely to the U.S. economic recovery
and the continued strength of the U.S. dollar. Exports to the U.S. grew by
32.1% in 1983 while exports to the European countries rose only 6.9Z and to
Japan only 0.5Z. Therefore, if the U.S. recovery falters, or if protectionist
sentiment increases, it is very likely that Korea's exports will grow more
slowly and the pace of GNP growth slacken. Korea is aiming to soften the
impact of such eventualities by investing in domestic R&D an- in upgrading the
skills of its labor force so as to be able to diversify its export base.
11.       National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financial liberalization which raised real rates of interest for depositors of
up to 5Z in 1983, partly through budgec surpluses arising from restrained
government expenditure and partLy through measures to increase efficiency in
public sector activities.  The savings rate stood at 24.4% in 1983, up from a
recent low of 21.9% in 1980. However, a savings rate of 29% and a level of
fixed investment of about 31% will be needed if growth is to be maintained at
7.5% without pressure on the balance of payments. On the basis of past
aggregate savings performance, it is Likely that the Koreans will attain their
savings target. However, the process may be more difficult in the future than
it has been in the past. There has been a marked shift up in the demand for
consumer durables in recent years. While the burden of increasing savings



- 4 -
will largely be -met by private savings as a result of rising income and profit
levels, Goveroment is also taking action to raise further the contribution of
the public sector to savings.
12.       Korea has adopted price stability as a major objective in recent
years and has sought it through restrictive fiscal and monetary policies.
Money supply growth has been restricted to around 12Z over 1983 and all
indications are that the restraint will continue over the next few years.  So
far, the measures adopted seem to have been successful. Consumer prices rose
by only 3.4% in 1983 as compared to 7.2% in 1982 and 18% in 1979. Preliminary
results indicate that 1984 will be a year of low inflation as well. Korea's
ability to maintain a low rate of inflation in future years will depend upon
its ability to sustain sound fiscal and mnetary policies and to keep wages
from outpacing the growth of productivity.
External Resource Balance
13.       While total debt is high ($40.4 billion in 1983, 54Z of GNP), the
debt service ratio, including interest on short-term debt, remains a ma;age-
able 20%. The sbare of short-term maturities in total debt is, however, high
(at 35%), and is a cause for concern. This aspect of its debt and the con-
tinuing uncertainty in international financial markets, which bas led to high
and volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans to hold their new
foreign borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986 and to seek
balance of payments current account equilibrium by then. Our assessment is
that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that while a significant
porportion of official assistance should be continued, Korea is likely to move
increasingly towards reliance on private flows to meet external capital
requirements. This assessment was endorsei recently by the Consultative Group
which met on July 16, 1984 in Secul. At that meeting, the Consultative Group,
recognizing the rapidly evolving character of Korea's economy and the trends
in external assistance, concluded that its role as a forum for aid coordina-
tion and enhanced mobilization of external capital is now being fulfilled by
Government. Accordingly, it was agreed that the Group should be formally
dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly indicated its need and its
intention to continue with a substantial program of borrowing from the Bank
and its wish to continue with an active economic dialogue that would provide a
vehicle for continued Bank advice on matters of economic policy.
PART II - BA1NK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       As of March 31, 1984, Korea had received 72 Bank loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,105.27 million in loans
and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that date,
$1,452.27 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Bank loans (outstanding and disbursed)
represented about 7.6% of Korea's total external debt at the end of FY1984.
Annex II contains a list of outstanding Bank loans, ImK Credits, and IFC
Investments as of March 31, 1984. Progress on project implementation is
generally satisfactory. Although implementation delays had occurred in
several projects - mainly irrigation, highways and population - due primarily
to shortfalls in Governuent budgetary contributions resulting from cost



- 5 -
overruns during a period of high domestic inflation, tht7 have been addressed
and resolved.  The Government has taken measures to increase local funding of
Bank-financed projects. However, as the Government's budgetary situation
continues to be tight, the status and plans for counterpart contributions will
remain an integral part of country implementation reviews held jointly with
the Government. Nevertheless, despite occasional delays, Korea's disbursement
rate remains the highest among major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
15.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolucion in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete
projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making sec-
tor loans which are aimed at addressing broad-based policy and institutional
issues. This transformation in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
the reLatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is working welL. Sector
loans have already been made for Education and Industrial Finance and are
under preparation for the Agriculture and Urban sectors. The Bank has also
made two Scructur:9l Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement this approach by
concentr,:ing on issues that have macro and multi-sectoral impact.
16.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the cechnological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through two SALs. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
Bank's technology enhancement objectives are being pursued through two proj-
ects approved in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation
(KTDC) which finances research, development and engineering and the other for
the machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms.
Future lending planned for industry in Korea would include continued support
for the financial sector reform, for KTDC under the proposed project, and for
the small and medium-industry subsector which is expected to play an important
role in the growth of the skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the
next stage of development of Korean industry.
17.       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited
reflecting the completion of major infrastructure works. The next operation
would address a number of policy and institutional issues related to Korean
agriculture which have been identified in the sector survey dated April 23,
1984. This would complement public finance issues related to farm subsidies
and the restructuring of agro-industries being handled under the second SAL.
Loan funds are tentatively planned to be directed to credit institutions to
support long-term lending to farmers and other private entrepreneurs in the
sector.
18.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984 as well as future operations would address



sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of invest-
ment planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to
regulation and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve
macroeconomic policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as
relative fuel prices, are being handled within the contezt of the second SAL.
19.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in May 1984, would support measures
designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher leveL science
and technology education.
20.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector invoLves support for
three regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and two
water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply, and transportation in the
cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas. New
projects in urban transport, local government finance and water supply are
under preparation. Continuation of the poLicy improvement and institution-
building efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by moving
gradually to a sector approach, first in housing.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
Background
21.       Korea's impressive development in the industrial and manufacturing
sectors was initially based on light industrial goods such as textiles,
appareLs, wood products and household goods in which Korea had comparative
advantages due to its low cost and efficient labor. Since the early 1970s,
however, the country has become increasingly aware of the need to transform
its industrial structure towards a more technology-intensive one. A number of
considerations make this imperative: (a) poor resource endowment; (b) a
quickly disappearing comparative advantage in labor-intensive industries; (c)
a desire for continuing gains in labor productivity through technological
advancement; and (d) a desire to secure the long-term competitive advantage of
technological and innovative capacity.
22.       In the mid-seventies, the first steps were taken to deepen the
industrial base and diversify the mix of manufactured exports through the
creation of capital intensive metal and chemical industries. With increasing
industrial maturity, the process of diversification has continued and Korean
firms have begun to move into fields of higher technological intensity such as
electronics, machinery and fine chemicals, where the domestic value added is
much greater and export demand brisk. Having committed itself to developing
these subsectors, Korea must now adopt measures that will bring it technologi-
cally abreast of some of its competitors and establish its position in the
world market.



R&D Financing for Industrial Technology Development
23.       Traditional financial institutions such as commercial and develop-
ment banks are primarily concerned with financing products that have developed
to a mature phase in the sense that the technology is tested and proven, the
market is reasonably assured and the outcome of the project is predictable and
relatively certain. However, the start-up phase of project development
conta.ns major uncertainties beyond the Level acceptable for such financial
institutions. Several factors contribute to the reluctance by traditional
banker- to finance such projects: (a) lack of technical and market expertise
to properly evaluate the risk; (b) lack of organizational and managerial
tradition to include risky loans in their portfolio; and (c) lack of viable
collateral because of software intensity and low collateral value due to
specialized needs for R&D equipment. As a result, an institutional gap exists
in many developing economies which does not allow the capital market to
adequately meet specific financing requirements for the start-up and
precommercial phases (or pre-market phases) of the technology innovation
cycLe.
24.       Several developing countries and almost all the industrialized
nations have recognized the key role of public support for technology
promotion schemes in some form or anocher. First, the socio-economic return
of technology development activities are generally higher than the private
return because such activities generate substantial externalities in the form
of knowledge as well as other material benefits which cannot all be
appropriated by the developer. Second, the outcome of these activities is
uncertain, which makes R&D investment quite risky. Thus, even though the
expected benefits of individual projects may be larger than the costs,
individual entrepreneurs who are typically risk-averse may not invest in them
but society as a whole which has access to greater portfolio diversification
opportunities can afford to be close to risk-neutral. Consequently, from the
point of view of the economy as a whole, it pays to compensate for the
tendency of individuai entrepreneurs to underinvest in such activities.
Third? many R&D activities, especialLy those of relevance to modern industry,
require lumpy investments. Lastly, as mentioned above, even when the
entrepreneurs are willing to invest in technology development activities,
typically, gaps exist in the capital market which preclude financing such
risky and software-intensive ventures.
Policy Toward Industrial Technology Development
25.       Total R&D spending in Korea increased rapidly from W 10.5 billion
(or 0.39% of GNP) in 1970 to W 457.7 billion (or 0.95% of GNP) in 1982.
Korea's total R&D spending as a percent of CNP is among the highest in the
e       developing countries and is now comparable to levels in some developed



countries.21  These impressive achievements are attributable to the initia-
tives taken since the late 1970s, which brought into effect an impressive
array of policy and administrative measures to facilitate the development of
industrial technology and address evolving issues. Major strategies behind
these measures have been to: (a) encourage R&D investments by industry as
much as possible; (b) liberalize foreign technology import; (c) increase the
linkage between industry and public sector (nonprofit) research institutes;
and (d) create suitable financing mechanisms for R&D activities, particularly
for Small and Medium Industries (SMIs). To complement these measures, the
Goverment has increased education sector investments to improve the quality
as well as the quantity of technical manpower.
26.       To encourage R&D activities by industry, th-. Government has
initiated various incentive schemes. Such incentives, most of which have
taken the form of fiscal incentives, include the Technology Development
Reserve (TDR), tax credits for R&D expenditures, accelerated depreciation for
investments which commercialize new technology and reduced excise tax for
technology-intensive products. Under the TDR scheme, which has been one of
the most important incentives, a company can set aside for R&D purposes up to
20% of its profit before tax or 1% of its revenues in any year for the
following four years, subject to the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST)
approval of its R&D program. (In the case of technology-intensive indus'ries,
allowable percentages are 30% of net profit or 1.5% of the revenues). In
effect, the TDR scheme allows companies to write off R&D expenditures up to
four years before actual expenditures are incurred. If TDR funds so
accumulated are not used within four years, however, the company must pay
back-taxes on the unused balance as well as a penalty. During 1974-1983, the
TDR balance increased from W2.9 billion to V 56.5 billion while the number of
participating companies increased from 60 to 160. There is no doubt that the
TDR scheme and other measures have collectively been a major contributory
factor to the rapid increase in industry's R&D activities from W 15 billion in
1976 to W 205 billion in 1982. TDR has also been the main source of the
private sector's equity contribution to the Korea Technology Development
Corporation (KTDC), the executing agency of the proposed project.
27.       Korea's technological acquisitions during the 1960s and 1970s were
predominantly achieved through imports of turnkey plants and machinery rather
than more direct proprietary transfers through direct foreign investments and
licensing agreements. In fact, the Government's attitude towards direct
foreign technology imports was circumspect. Towards the end of the 1970's,
however, Korea changed its orientation. During the brief period of 1978-1980
the Government launched a four-stage technology liberalization program which
resulted in a major simplification of the approval process of foreign techno-
logy imports. Furthermore, as a result of amendments made to the Foreign
Capital Inducement Act in 1983, industry can now import virtually any techno-
logy without prior government clearance. In a related move, the present list
2/   However, Korea's R&D spending in 1980 was still considerably smaller than
those in highly industrialized countries such as the United States
(2.3%), Federal Republic of Germany (2.6Z), and Japan (2.OZ).



-9-
of industries open to direct foreign investment is currently being replaced
with a negative list, specifying only those industries in which direct foreign
investments are prohibited or restricted. The number of industries in which
foreign investment is permitted will be substantially increased under the nev
system. Administrative procedures for direct foreign investment are in the
process of being simplified. Under the new system, all applications by pros-
pective foreign investors satisfying specific criteria will be approved by the
Ministry of Finance immediately. The balance between the development of
indigenous technology and imports have become major emerging policy issues.
he fact that several developed countries are becGming increasingly unwilling
to transfer state-cf-the-art technology as Korea advances its technological
capability requires that Korea give this issue increasing attention in the
coming years.
28.       As a move to strengthen the technological infrastructure for Korean
industry, the Government created a number of public sector research institutes
mostly during 1976-78. Collectively, these institutes spent V 131 billion in
1982 or about 30Z of the nation's total R&D expenditures. However, the
ability and capacity of these institutes to serve effectively industry's
rapidly growing and increasingly complex technical needs have been limited.
Financial and human resources were too thinly spread over too many research
institutes. Nore important, however, the institutes initially recruited a
Large number of their staff from academic fields, the only readily available
source of recruitment. UnfortunateLy, these researchers were particularly
weak in manufacturing know-how and in their ability to develop prototypes, and
have been unable to assist industry in solving practical problems.
29.       There is thus a need to redefine the role of these research
institutes. The need for support to private industry for the downstream stage
of R&D has probably decreased as private firms have established their own
research capabilities.  However, it is also possible  `at, as industry's
technological capacity increases and its focus on R&D shifts quickly to more
advanced technologies, it will require more support, particularly in basic and
advanced applied research, which nonprofit research institutes may be better
equipped to provide. There is also a need to address the issue of managemnet
of the nonprofit research institutes with a view to making them more
responsive to industry's needs in seLecting and implementing research
projects, and more accountable for their efficiency and outputs.
30.       Given the limited role that traditional financial institutions can
play in R&D financing (para. 23), a specialized institution, KRDC, was created
in May 1981 primarily to promote and finance R&D projects. In the short time
of its existence, KTDC has emerged as a major financing mechanism for R&D in
Korea. Equally important is KTDC's emerging role in identifying technological
gaps and promoting related R&D activities, and the pool of expertise it has
developed in this specialized field. KTDC's functions, issues and programs
designed to increase its effectiveness are discussed in Part IV of this
report. KTDC complements activities of existing Korean financial and other
industrial support organizations. The Korea Development Bank (KDB) initiated
technology development loans in 1976 to finance R&D activities, comercialize
R&D results and purchase RED equipment, To date, KDB's technology development
loans have been primarily concerned with commercializing R&D results, whereas



- 10 -
KIDC's operations have been focused more on the upstream of R&D activities.
Other institutions with which KTDC has close complementary functions include
the Korea Technology Advancement Corporation (KTAC) and the Korea Development
Investment Corporation (RDIC). RIAC specializes in comercializing R&D
results from the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST).
KDIC was established in 1982 as the first venture capital company with IOOZ
private sector ownership in Korea (para. 32). The Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) provides shop-floor extension services, tech-
nical assistance and training to SMIs (para. 32). KTDC has close cooperative
arrangements with SMIPC, KIAC, KDIC and other organizations under which they
jointly cater to the broader techrical and financial needs of their respective
clients.
31.       Korea has been deveLoping R&D manpower rapidly, from about 13,000 in
L977 to about Z8,000 in 1982. The Government projects that the demand for
research scientists and engineers would reach a level of 110,000 by the early           S
1990s. To aeet such a demand, the Government has accorded priority on
expanding and upgrading science and technology education at the graduate and
undergraduate levels. The Government's major objectives are to: (a) improve
the quality of graduate programs; (b) expand the programs and strengthen the
management of the Korea Science and Engineering Foundation, the key institu-
tion for the promotion and funding of science and technology research; (c)
improve collaboration in graduace education and research among graduate
schools and research institutes; (d) increase the supply, and improve the
qualification of faculty members in science and engineering; and (e) improve
laboratory and other facilities essential for science and engineering
education.
Role of the Bank
32.       As discussed above, Korean industrial technology development
policies have, over the last decade, been characterized by initiative and
foresight. The Bank has assisted the Government both through an active
dialogue on technology jolicy and institutional issues and through specific
projects designed t- support various parts of tLe investment pogrzss that
complement policy. The Bank Group's first direct involvement in technological
developament was initiated in 1979 with financing for the Electronics
Technology Project (Loan 1676-YO). The project, which is nearing completion,
seeks to develop the capacity of the Korea Institute of Electronics-Technology
(KIET) to support the local electronics industry through provision of
specialized services, mahpower training, and acquisition of foreign
technology, and undertaking, jointly with industry, production and R&D work.
KIET has successfully demonstrated to the private industry the feasibility of
establishing a Korean-run advanced semiconductor processing facility without
expensive licensing and has developed a number of advanced microelectronics
technology and products. The first Bank loan to KTDC (Loan 2112-KO) in 1982
was aimed at helping to bridge a gap in the Korean financial system by
providing financial assistance far typically risky technology intensive
industrial R&D projects (see aLso para. 39 below for assessment of KTDC's
development under Loan 2i12-KO). The Bank has also assisted SXIPC (Loan
2215-KO) which provides shop-floor advice and guidance to increase the
productivity of small and medium enterprises. Its activities are concentrated



- 11 -
on the downstrea3 or market phase of the technology innovation life cycle and
on relatively mature tecbnologies. Thus, SKIPC complements the activities of
KTDC which operates mainly in the premarket phase of the technology innovation
cycle. In Nay 1983, IFC invested V 750 million in the newly created KDIC, a
venture capital company whose primary objective is to provide equity finance
for comercialization of new technology. Finally, through sector loans made
in 1980 (Loan 1800-KO) and earlier this year (Loan 2354-KO), the Bank is
assisting in the upgrading and expansion of higher education for science and
enginecrin.  The Bank's dialogue in these areas has generally been excellent
and the objectives of the first education sector loan, now nearing completion.
have been substantially realized.
33.       As part of the First Technology Development Project, provision was
made for the Bank and the Government to engage in periodic discussions of the
Government's R&D policies especially with regard to establishing closer links
between industry and the public sector research institutes and policies aimed
at supporting and promoting the development of industry's R&D capability.
Similarly, as part of the S'.ond Structural Adjustment Loan approved in
November 1983, the Bank supported the Government's revision of the Foreign
Capital Inducement Act. Given the dynamic nature of R&D activities, it is
important that the policy and institutional environment be the subject of
continuing review. During the proposed project, the Goverrment and the Bank
have agreed to continue to exchange views on existing and emerging issues on
technology policy (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Some of
the emerging issues and problem areas are discussed in paras. 27-29 above;
other areas requiring review are the role of small and medium industries,
measures to facilitate the role of KTDC and other institutions in promoting
venture capital activities and measures for patent and copyright protection.
Some preliminary studies have been initiated already in some of these areas.
The Bank's role would, through sector work and the superv'-sion of the proposed
project, be priarwily one of advising the responsible agencies on the design
and implementation of Korea's technology-related policies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The Covernment of the Republic of Korea requested Bank assistance
for the development of industrial technology in Korea. The Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC) was established in May 1981 and acted as the
executing agency for the first project approved by the Bank in March 1982.
The proposed Second Technology Development Project would aim at continuing
support for the Government's effort to accelerate the development of
*        industrial technology. The proposed project was prepared by the Government
and KTDC. The project was appraised in January/February 1984. Negotiations
were held in Washington from August 22 to 24, 1984 with the Korean delegation
led by Mr. Lim Chang Yuel, Director-General of the Economic Cooperation
Bureau, Ministry of Finance. A report entitled "Korea Staff Appraisal Report
- Second Technology Development Project" (No. 5213-KO), dated September 26,
1984, is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and Scope
35.       The proposed project would continue support of the Government's
effort to facilitate the reorientation of Korean industry through acceleration
of industrial technology developnent. Specifically, the project would a&i
to: (a) assist KIDC's institutional development through technical assistance,
staff development, and training; (b) assist KTDC's catalytic role in
technology innovation; (c) establish the foundation for a long-term resource
base for KTDC; (d) expand KTDC's operations involving risk-sharing financial
instruments; and (e) expand KTDC's support to SMIs.  The proposed project
consists of:
Part A: A line of credit to help cover costs of industry-sponsored R&D
sub-projects in 1984-86.
Part B: InstitutionaL development of KTDC, comprising (i) consulting
services to support the operations of KTDC and training of KIDC
staff both to further deepen KTDC's capacity to identify,
appraise, and supervise R&D projects and to enable KMDC to carry
out surveys of the technological needs of Korean industries; and
(ii) purchase of training materials for KTDC staff.
The Project Ezecuting Agency - ITDC
36.       KTDC was established on May 1, 1981, with strong support from
Government and private industry.  The Bank played an active role in KTDC's
conception, and assisted in designing its ownership, organizational structure,
and operational policies and procedures. KTDC's principal goals are to
promote the development of industrial technology and to facilitate desirable
changes in the industrial structure so as to strengthen the international
competitiveness of Korean industry.
37.       KTDC performs several important functions as described below:
(a) Financing for R&D Projects: While convencional financial institu-
tions are interested mainly in the post-market phases of the tech-
nology innovation cycle, which are based on proven technology, RIDC
actively identifies and appraises R&D projects initiated by industry
during the pre-market phases of the product innovation cycle. Types
of projects KTDC finances include (a) industry's R&D projects and
facilities to develop new technology or improve existing technology,
(b) introduction and adaptation of advanced technology through
financing costs for research and transfer of technology;
(b) Venture Capital Operations: The Government and private industry in
Korea desire to use venture capital operations as a means to develop
industrial technology quickLy. KTDC is playing the pioneering role
in this area. The crux of this operation is the concept of risk
(and, consequently, reward) sharing by KTDC and respective private
entrepreneurs, inventors, and technology innovators;



- 13 -
(c)  Promotion of Industrial Technology Developmet Among Small- and
Medium-Scale Industries: Considering the important role that SYIs
could play in industrial technology development, and in view of
demonstrated success in more advanced countries, the Government and
the private sector are anzious to promote technological development
among SMIs. RTDC, along with other industrial support organizations
plays a key role in this effort (para. 30);
(d) Brokerage Services: KTDC's unique position and the extensive con-
tacts that it has developed witr private industry, research insti-
tutes, and financial iustitutions permit it to provide brokerage
services in matchmaking among researchers, inventors, investors and
entrepreneurs both in Korea and overseas; and
(e)  Information Service: With its intimate knowledge of the status of
technologicaL development and the needs of industry, KTDC is in an
advantageous position to assist industry in identifying technolo-
gical trends, market prospects, and emerging area_ of focus for R&D
efforts and comnercialization prospects. In addition to close
association with similar organizations in other countries, KTDC is
affiliated with some US venture capital companies that provide KTDC
with additional avenues for such information.
In addition, based on its experience and expertise, KMDC is performing an
increasingly important function to advise and consult with the Government on
existing major technology policy constraints and measures to be taken.
38.       The legal framework which established KTDC enables the institution
to operate in an autonomous manner with the efficiency of a private company;
to have a strong and independent management; and to attract and retain staff
of high caliber and entrepreneurship. Originally, the ownership was envisaged
to be 60X and 640 for the private sector and Government respectively. How-
ever, KIDC is now 8OZ owned by the private sector. The private sector owner-
ship of KTDC is broadly based, including the participation of 16 industrial
groups, 83 individual firms, and five banking institutions. To avoid undue
concentration of influence, the KTDC Act stipulates that ownership and/or
voting rights by any private sbareholder will be limited to no more than 7%.
SNIs' shareholding is small. SHIs' interest, at the KTDC's Board level, is
safeguarded orincipally through representation by the Vice Minister of MOST
(on behalf ,t the Government) and the President of the Korea Federation of
Small Business. KTDC's Statement of Investment Policies provides guidelines
fce KTDC operations, including investment activities, c:iteria for investment
decisions, diversification of assets, promotion of SMIs, relations with
clients, and generation of profits.  With respect to asset diversification,
KTDC has reconfirmed its existing policy which limits KTDC's total financing
comitment outstanding at any time to any single entity to not more than 7% of
its long-term portfolio (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). This,
together with other operational policies, will provide adequate safeguards
against undue concentration of KTDC's portfolio. Since its establishment,
KTDC has been headed by an experienced, able and dynamic chief executive. In
April 1984, the first President retired. He has been succeeded by an equally
experienced and competent individual who had acted as Executive Vice-President
since KTDC's establishment.



- 14 -
First Project
39.       KTDC's performance co date has been very satisfactory.  At the end
of the last fiscal year (December 31, 1983), KTDC had approved 270 projects
amounL:ng to about W 78 billion, or more than double the appraisal
estimates.  KTDC has supported a broad spectrum of R&D activities, ranging
from projects dealing with most advanced medical electronics and
telecommunications technology, computer hardware and software, to projects
involving more basic technology, such as educational toys and food
processing. Specific products emanating from these activities include the
development of a programmable controller, eLectro-fax master paper and fax
paper, automatic voltage regulator, and fuel injection pump components for
diesel engines. In addition, KTDC has supported the improvement of
coextrusion technology through its financing of the development of resin
products. Of the financing commitment to date, about 50% accounts for R&D
activities conducted in Korea while about 25% accounts for costs of
importation of technology including licensing fees and associated training.
KTDC has been involved in the commercialization of R&D results only where no
other financing source was available with appropriate rerms. The loans and
investments extended to SNIs represented about half of the number of projects
and about 30Z of the financed amount, which substantially met the original
targets. In addition to financial services, KTDC has provided other important
services associated with technology development including management
assistance to scart up SNIs, information services to follow technology trends
to identify the specific technological gaps existing in Korea and to promote
R&D activities in such areas.
Institutional Development
40.       KTDC has a well-qualified and highly-motivated staff.  As a relative
newcomer in the Korean financial system, KTDC is quickly gaining a reputation
as an institution with a unique mission and the competence to achieve its
goals. KTDC is also becoming well known, particularly among developing coun-
tries, as a successful institution which specializes in R&D financing. Given
the unique and evolving nature of its functions and relatively short exist-
ence, however, KTDC is committed to constantly upgrading the corporation's
organizational effectiveness and individual staff expertise. Under the first
project, KTDC staff have received about 80 man-months of external training in
.odditson to numerous in-house training progzams, particularly in the areas of
R&D financing, technology innovations and trends, venture capital and small
business management.
41.       To accelerate KTDC staff development, United Nations Development
Program (UNDP), KTDC and the Bank have recently concluded an agreement on a
"KTDC Institutional Development Project" under which KTDC will receive
management and staff training and technical assistance totaling $226,000.
These activities will: (a) further develop KTDC's expertise in project and
company analysis, particularly operations involving risk-sharing financial
instrumencs (para. 49); and (b) expand contacts and the information pipelines
with overseas high-technology and venture capital firms and institutions with
similar objectives. The Bank is acting as the executing agency for the
project. Experience to be gained from these programs would be used in



- 15 -
designing KTDC's further staff development and training programs as necessary,
for which purpose $300,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed loan are
allocated. It is expected that KTDC will continue to prefer grants and other
subsidized sources of financing for these activities. If these materialize,
the proposed loan proceeds earmarked for this purpose would be reallocated to
ti- line of credit.
Long-term Financing Requirements
62.       During the term of the project, KTDC pLans to further design and
strengthen its financial position to enable itself eventually to mobilize an
increasing portion of its required resources from coercial sources.  For
this purpose, KTDC plans to (a) maintain a strong capital structure; (b)
develop a solid portfolio; (c) maintain adequate interest rate spreads; and
t         (d) improve its operational efficiency.  To meet a substantial proportion of
the demand for R&D financing expected during the project period, KTDC plans to
increase the level of its totaL capitalization (long-term debt and equity) to
about W L97 billion by the end of 1986. Based on this figure, KTDC will raise
W 13.3 billion as further subscription to paid-in capital by private
shareholders during 1984-1986 and will furnish a detailed plan for this
purpose for the Bank's review by December 31, 1984 (Section 4.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement). In addition, KTDC plans to borrow from the Government W 20
billion, and float KTDC debentures of W 30 billion during 1984-1985 on terms
and conditions and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Further, the Government has agreed that KTDC's authorized capital would be
increased to at least W 37 bilLion by end 1986. Furthermore, the Covernment
would, by December 31. 1985, provide an additional subscription to paid-in
capital of not less than W 3 billion (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The planned Level of
operations,  ihich represents about 15Z of the expected R&D investments by
industry during 1984-86, requires that KTDC would more than tripLe its total
capitalization and, consequently, its total Loan and investnment portfoLio.
This is both feasible and desirable in light of the strong emphasis being
given to R&D by the Government and private sector and of the demonstrated
strong demand during the first project. In addition, a rapid expansion of
operations is also required for KTDC to develop a sufficiently large and well-
diversified portfolio.
43.       The proposed equity contribution is predicated on the estimates of
the level of equity that could be realistically raised from the private sector
and the desirability of limiting the Government's share of equity co about
30Z. At this level, the Government's equity contribution would be
sufficiently large to continue to demonstrate Government's support to KTDC
and, hence, to encourage the continued private sector subscription to KIDC's
*         equity.  At the same time, the Government's share would be small enough to
maintain KTDC's autonomy and operational efficiency. On the basis of the
above capital structure, the implied debt/equity ratio vould not exceed 5:1
during the project implementation period (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). This level of debt/equity would provide a sufficiently strong
capital structure for KTDC, while enabLing KTDC to establish a well-balanced
and diversified portfoLio.



- 16 -
44.       Under the first project, the Government and the Bank agreed that
KTDC should have a minimum spread of 2.25% for individual loans and KTDC
undertook to achieve a minimum overall average spread of 2.5Z.  These are
slightLy higher than those accorded to Bank-supported DFC's in Korea for sub-
loans financed out of the proceeds of Bank loans. Higher spreads than those
for DFCs are justified and necessary for KTDC, not only because its operations
are risky but also because other financial institutions have access to more
profitable sources of interest income not available to KTDC, such as interest
on reserves maintained at the Bank of Korea. Also, R&D operations are usually
smaller in size and require intensive staff inputs. KTDC's majority share-
holders are private sector firms, who would naturally expect KTDC to become
financially profitable and to earn a fair return on their investments in due
course. KTDC would charge interest on local currency as well as foreign
exchange subloans made as conventional Loans, which when taken together with
other charges and fees levied by KTDC on such subloans, would provide KTDC
with a differential of at least 2.5% above the respective cost of Eunds to
KTDC (Section 2.10 (c) and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Promotion of Risk-sharing Financial Instruments
45.       KTDC will offer the following types of financial support:
(a) Conventional Loans: regular loans with or without collateral
requirements;
Cb) Conditional Loans: financial inrtruments that allow profit and risk
sharing with project sponsors. Such 'loans" will normally be repaid
through royalty payments from sates revenues if the project is
successful, including a reasonable return on the loans (if the
project does not result in sales revenues, KTDC will recover only a
portion, normally 30%, of the principal from the sponsor); and
c;  Equity Investments:  equity participation in companies set up to
commercialize R&D results.
46.       To promote the undertaking of R&D projects by industry, which
inherently involves substantial risks and a long gestation time, YCTDC will
have to share both the risk of failure and the benefits of success.
ConditionaL loans and equity investments are particularly important in
introducing risk-sharing mechanisms. During the 1981-83 period, KTDC's
support involving these risk-sharing financial instruments amounted to U 4.6
billion, which is about 50% of the expectations at the time of appraisal of
the first project. A number of factors in the Korean environment constrain
the pace of expansion of conditional lending and equicy investments: (a) the
kind of innovative R&D projects sponsored by SHIs which are the types most
suitable for risk-sharing financial instruments are few, and time has to be
allowed for these activities to grow; (b) risk-sharing is a relatively new
concept in Korea, and Korean entrepreneirs tend to be concerned with the
erosion of potential profits or the dil ;in of their ownership; and (c) the
legal and organizational framework that wo:d be conducive to the development



- 17 -
of venture capital (such as flow-through tax,3/ a viable over-the-counter
market, etc.) has not yet been fully developed.
47.       KTDC is convinced that these risk-sharing financial instruments
would be more widely accepted by Korean entrepreneurs in the future, albeit
gradually, and RTDC management is committed to playing a pioneering role and
stepping up efforts to promote them. As a first step, KIDC established the
Venture Capital Management Division to -,pecialize in activities involvi.5
these risk-sharing financial instruments. A business cooperation agreement
has been concluded among KTDC, KDIC, andi KIAC with the objective of promoting
joint risk sharing for large-scale andlor risky ventures. As a result of
these and other efforts, KTDC anticipates that the proportion of conditional
lending and equity investments will increase from about 4% in 1983 to about
12% in 1986. It is further expected that by 1990 the proportion would further
increase to about 20Z. These overall targets will be incorporated in KTDC's
operational statement. It should be noted, however, that due to the rela-
tively recent introduction of these financial instrunents to the Korean
capital market, these targets are indicative and they would have to be
reviewed from time to time to take into consideration experience and actual
results of KTDC's operations. KIDC will review with the Bank, by the end of
each fiscal year beginning in 1984, the interim operational targets to be met
by KRTDC in the following fiscal year and introduce modifications to the
interim targets as would be agreed (Section 3.07 (a (1)) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The principle that was applied under the first loan whereby KTDC
would receive additional funds to cover losses suffered on loans made as
conditional loans would also be in effect under the proposed loan (Section
3.05(e) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Promotion of Financial Support to Small and Medium Industry
48.       KDC's Statement of Operational Policy stipulates that the
propo._:ion by volume of its financial support to SMIs be at least 20Z in 1982
and 30% in 1983 and thereafter. However the promotion of R&D activities among
SMIs has been a highly challenging task for KIDC. The major difficulties
encountered include: (a) limited in-house techmological capabilities among
SIIs to identify and develop R&D projects with good prospects for commerciali-
zation; (b) limited international contacts to identify sources of technology
imports; and (c) severe financial constraints which limit these firms ability
to bear their minimum share of R&D expenses. In spite of these difficulties,
KIDC has made commendable efforts to promote R&D activities among these firms
through extensive promotional activities and techn4cal and managerial
advice. As a result, KTDC has substantially met the original targets. KTDC's
business plan stipulates that it will increase the proportion of SMI opera-
tions to not less than 40% of total financing amounts to be committed during
1984-86. KTDC will review with the Bank by the end of each fiscal year,
beginning in 1984, the operational targets for further promoting its support
31   To avoid double and triple taxation on the income generated by venture
capital.



- 18 -
to small and medium industries for the following fiscal year and introduce
modifications to the targets as would be agreed (Section 3.07 (a (2)) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Prospects
49.       As anticipated at the time of its establishment, KTDC has incurred
losses during the 1981-83 period. KTDC is proje=ted to generate a net income
of W 0.6 billion (or $0.75 million equivaLent) in 1985, and to wipe out its
accumulated losses by 1986. The gross returns on total assets during 1986-90
are expected to be in the range of 0.8-1.3Z. K[DC's profitability is
sensitive to the effective interest rate spreads on conventional loans during
the initial years reflecting the relatively high proportion of these
operations. As the proportion of operations involving risk-sharing financing
gradually increases, however, KTDC's orofitability becomes increasingly more
sensitive to the outcome of the projects t.- be financed under these financial
instruments. The projected financial performance is typical of an
organization such as KTDC because of the inherently high risk and long
gestation period of R&D projects and the long time needed to develop a large
and well-diversified portfolio of conditional loans and equity investments.
To finance its operations beyond the proposed project, KTDC would require
additional equity of W 16 billion and local long-term loans of H 53 billion,
in addition to foreign loans of about $106 million during 1987-90. Towards the
end of the 1980s, KTDC is expected to be ready to raise an increasing
proportion of its long-term resources on a commercial basis.
Main Features of the Bank Loan
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $50 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee, would be made directly to KTDC, and guaranteed by the Govern-
ment. $300,000 would be used for Part 3 of the project and the remaining, net
of front-end fee, would finance Part A. The proposed loan, which would be
fully committed by the end of 1986, would adequately meet KTDC's foreign
exchange needs during 1984-86. The estimated costs of Part B include 15 man-
months of consulting services as well as other training costs.
51.       The proposed Bank loan would be lent to KTDC at the Bank standard
variable interest rate, with a fronc-end fee of 0.25Z and a commitment fee of
0.75Z on the unused portion of the loan. The loan would have a term of 11
years including five years of grace. To ensure a broad impact of the loan
proceeds, subloans will normally have a ceiling of $1.5 million equivalent.
Furthermore, KTDC's total outstanding financial commitments to any single
enterprise financed out of the Bank loan proceeds would not exceed $5 million
(Section 2.03(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Subloans in excess of the
proposed free limit of $500,000 equivalent will be reviewed by the Bank before
KTDC's approval. Subloans under the free Limit will be reviewed by the Bank
after KTDC's approval. This procedure wouLd result in the Bank's prior review
of about 25-35Z of the sub-loans. All equity investments would be subject to
the Bank's prior review (Section 2.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       KTDC will onlend the Bank loan to subborrowers for conventional and
conditional loans and also offer financial support in the form of equity



- 19 -
investments. Conventional loans may be granted with or without collateral and
would have a maximum repayment period of 10 years including a grace period of
up to three years at an interest rate, including fees and charges, which would
allow KTDC an effective minimum spread of 2.5% p.a. In the case of condi-
tional loans, KTDC would receive royalty payments based on sales revenues in
addition to principal repayments (Sections 2.10 (b-e) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The foreign exchange risk would be passed on directly to Loan
subborrovers (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement) while the exchange
risk on equity investments will remain with [IDC. The foreign exchange risk
applicable to Part B of the project would also be borne by KTDC.
Accounts and Audit
53.       KTDC will maintain its accounts in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and practices, incLuding separate accounts for
expenditures for which withdrawals from the proposed loan are requested on
the basis of statement of expenditures. KTDC will submit to the Bank within
four months after close of the fiscal year, its annual accounts audited by
external auditors satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Since most of KTDC's sub-loans are relatively small (about $300,000
equivalent, on average) and finance many hardware and software items available
onLy from a limited number of suppliers, procurement under the first project
was made through international or local shopping in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. This method of procurement, which has worked to the
Bank's satisfaction under the first project, would be continued under the
proposed project. Consulting services will be engaged in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
55.       The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) LOOZ of
documented foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported equipment and
materials; (b) 100% of expenditures for services and training; and (c) 60% of
local expenditures for imported goods purchased off-the-shelf in Korea or for
locally manufactured equipment and materials. All contracts for Local
procurement below $100,000 equivalent will be disbursed against statements of
expenditures (SOE). In addition, all contracts for service procurement below
$50,000 equivalent and for training expenses below $50,000 will be disbursed
against SOE. Related documents will be retained by KTDC and made available
for inspection by Bank supervision missions. Contracts which are larger than
these amounts will require full documentation. The SOE procedure is justified
in light of the particular nature of the projects and experience gained under
the first project. A special account (revolving fund) of $4 million of the
Bank funds would be established as a condition of effectiveness to expedite
disbursements (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). It is expected that



- 20 -
disbursements would be completed by December 30, 1988.41 Since the first Bank
loan was fully committed in August 1984, retroactive financing of up to $2
miLlion for incurred expenditures would be made available to KTDC so that its
operations would be minimally affected during the transition period. (Section
2.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification and Risk
56.       Within the short period since its establishment, KTDC has clearly
demonstrated the need and effectiveness of R&D financing activities in
Korea. In line with the Government's policy, KTDC has been rigorously
promoting R&D projects among private sector firms, providing financial, tech-
nical, marketing, and management support. Furthermore, based on its opera-
tional experience and periodic studies conducted by its staff, KTDC is
expected to continue to identify constraints and barriers in the existing
policy environment designed to promote technology innovation by industry and
consult frequently with relevant government agencies on measures to address
these problems. The proposed project would help KTDC continue to fulfill and
to reinforce its catalytic function in further expanding industry's R&D
activities, promoting closer coordination between nonprofit research insti-
tutes and private industry, accelerating the technology development among
SMIs, and broadening the use of risk-sharing financial instruments.
57.       Unlike most of its counterparts elsewhere in the world, which are
fully owned by respective governments and supported by government budgets,
KTDC is majority-owned by the private sector. The benefits of such an organi-
zational and ownership structure have been obvious under the first project.
Entrepreneurship and dynamism have been maintained under an independent Board
and management. It continues to be of utmost importance that KTDC maintain
full operational and managerial autonomy in the future. Equally important is
the continued strong support of the Government, both institutional and
financial, to demonstrate Government's commitment to KTDC for private share-
holders and to maintain KTDC's financial viability during the early years of
operations until KTDC can establish a sufficiently large and well-diversified
portfolio and become financially independent and capable of mobilizing the
necessary resources on its own.
58.       As KTDC enters the second phase of its institutional development,
its management and staff wilL have difficult tasks to perform. The greatest
of all will be maintaining che delicate balance between the important inter-
mediate and long-term goals, such as the development of technology-intensive
SHIs and expansion of risk-sharing financing operations on the one hand, and
more immediate needs, such as establishment of a profitable and viable insti-
tution on the other.  It is imperative that KTDC achieve both of these objec-              _
tives if it is to continue to play a pioneering and leadership role in R&D
financing in Korea with the full support of the Government, while simulta-
neously continuing to enjoy the confidence and broad support of the private
4/   Slightly longer than the average disbursement profile for DFCs in Korea
due to the nature and uncertainties of KTDC-financed projects.



- 21 -
sector. Major risks for the project would rest in any deterioration of this
support and confidence and in KTDC's failure to maintain this delicate balance
between medium-term and more short-term goals.
59.       In view of these risks, several provisions are included in the
project. First, KTDC would maintain a strong capital structure which would
provide an adequate financial buffer if KDC encounters major problem loans.
Second, the proposed spread on conventional loans would provide KTDC with a
reliable source of income to support its early years of operation when KTDC
aggressively promotes risk-sharing financing operations and R&D activities
among SMIs. Third, to avoid complete losses, KTDC's conditional loans
normally require a minimum repayment of loan principal, usually 30%, and in
exceptional cases, collateral is required from subborrowers with high credit
risks. In addition, the Government has agreed to continue to cover losses
r         incurred by KTDC's conditional loans.  Furthermore, as an exceptional
arrangement, Korean tax laws permit KTDC to set aside loan provisions of 2% on
the conditional loan portfolio, compared with 1Z allowed for conventional
loans for all financial institutions in Korea. In order to further develop
expertise on risk-sharing operations, KDC will continue to implement active
staff development and training programs. For this purpose and, in addition to
the provisions in the proposed loan, UNDP assistance has already been
extended.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Korea Technology Development
Corporation and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Korea and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special Conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. An additional condition of
effectiveness is the establishment of the Special Account (Section 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
aeresident
Attachments
September 28, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-22--                                               ANNX I
TABLE  34                                       PAGE 
II1Al NIIULIC 0o      - SOCAL ZwAYOSA  Su
KOREA. WULIC 07                    REENCE 5GW   IS KIC;tD AW3AGES) /a
Am  u mv              D}  lb -
196^       337OqM~. .rnUTSI       ASA 6 ACVIC           LAT. AM3iCA 4 CAR
AM (sTUAm, U.)
TOAL                                98. 5      98.5     98.5
AGRCUILYAL                          20.4       23.2     22.4
Coml     c0T  COW                     180.0      430.0   1910.0            1091.2                  2101.6
INNY  moinig m    s CaPIT
(KILOGAMS OF OIL MUIVA1N)          143.0      495.0   1104.0             567.3                   "5.5
POPULAYIOUMP V IDL SYATISTICS
POPULATION.HID-VAR (YIIOOSANDS)    25003.0    32241.0  39336.0
URBA POPULATION (2 0F TOTAL)        27.7       42.1     61.3              34.7                    64.5
POPULATION PROJECTIOUS
POPUIATION ZN EAR 2000D (lLL)                         50.5
STATIONY POPMATION (MUL)                              70.2
POPULATION ID3I                                        1.7
o     evuTIo  DENSmI
RI SQ. -1.                       253.9      327.6    393.2             261.9                    35.7
PEM SQ. MI. ACt. IAJID          1223.2     1367.3   1730.3            1735.1                    92.4
FOPUOATION ACE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 YS                          42.9       42.1     33.1              39.0                    39.9
15-f YES                          53.7       54.6     62.1              57.6                    56.0
65 AND AVE                         3.3        3.3      4.1               3.3                     4.1
POPIATIOII GROWM NATr (C)
TOTAL                              2.1        2.5      1.7               2.3                     2.4
URUAN                              4.7        6.7      5.1               4.3                     3.6
CRUDE B1RTH RATE (PER T30U)         42.8       30.4     22.8              30.1                    31.3
dhDE DERIM RATE (PER TUOUS)         13.7        9.6      6.4               9.5                     S.1
GROSS REPROUCT11O1 RATE              2.1        2.1      1.5               2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCErIRS. ANNUAL (T02)              *-      471.0    866.0 Ic
USERS (2 OF NArEED WOMN)           ..        25.0     54.0              52.7                    40.3
PMAm  UrRTIeH
IsNDEX OF POW PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       89.0       9.0    125.0              123.0                   114.3
PE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIS CZ OF RER T)              95.0      109.0    126.0             114.4                   110.6
PROTEINS (GRMS ER DAY)            57.0       64.0     74.0              57.0                    67.3
OF 1ICH ANIMAL MM  PLSE         7.0        5.0      14.0 Id          14.1                    34.1
011LD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RASE          6.6        4.0      1.9               7.2                     5.7
WALTS
LIFE EXPECT. AT 5I112 (TEARS)       53.9       59.1     67.3              40.4                   64.7
IFANr PIT. RATE (C  T2O0S)         78.3        50.1     32.0              66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SF0P)
TOTAL                             12.1       58.0     71.0 1/           37.0                    65.4
URBA                              18.4       84.0     15.0 7*           54.8                    78.1
RURAL                              9.5       38.0     54.9 7*           26.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRUTA DiSPOSAL
(S OF IOPULAUTON)
TOTAL                               *        25.0     64.0 fc           41.3                    52.9
URBISI                             ..        59.0     80.0 Ic           47.4                    67.0
AL                                 ..          ..     52.07             33.3                    24.5
POPALATION PER PRSICIA            3540.0     2240.0   140.0             7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER NURSING  ESON            3240.0 /f.Z 1790.0    350.0           2460.4                   315.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL OED
TOTAL                           2510.0     1950.0    640.0 hl         1044.2                   367.2
URANI                           1280.0 /f  t100.0    750.0 7r          651.2                   411.5
RRAL OM                                        *-       *-            2594.6                  2636.3
ADMISSIONS PEI HOSPITAL K             ..       16.9       ..              27.0                    27.3
amm
AVERAE SIZE OF NOUSENOLD
TOTAL                              5.6        5.2      4.5                ..                      .
URBA                               5.4        6-9      4.4
RURAL                              5.6        5.5      4.7
AVERACE N0. o0 PEISIROA
TOTAL                              2.5        2.3      2.0 /C
URBN                               2.1        2.7      2.1 7              .
RURAL                              2.4        2.2      2.0 7F
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DUELLIOGS)
TOrAL                             28.4       49.9
URBA                              67.3       92.4
RLRAL                             12.46      29.9     64.9 Id



-23-                                             ANX I
TASLE  3L                                        & C2
Sc. .o  Or     - s      ZKXCA=uM a
ma    .c  w          m      :      zz   ~s r.xD   /U*)I
m(A    Ale                             ZMc-% Dl;:b   -
zS DUMLZb      *5Th a                L. A.ZaSA e   CUa
MROLU11:Zom                       94.0      103.0    107.0            102.0                   105.4
nM                    "90         10o.0   Ias.o             05.9                   106.3
vmz              69.~~~~~00  103.0    105.0            96.2                   106.5
S_ccoomm zom                    V20          43.0     65.0             46D0                    43.2
IUU                    36.0        ScO       6.0            4A.7                     42.3
FcAUE                  16.0       32.0      60.0             43.1                    44S
W0ccm .m CZ V swam")                14-2       1.3      1MG              17.5                    33.6
umai                              56.0       57.0     46.0             31.8 361
-                                 34.0       37.0     39.0             23.5                    16.4
An= L122RMZ    mCZ                 70_6       67.6      96.0             72.9                    79.5
PASS  MC1us           VW            0-5        1.-       65              10.1                    46.0
B=           6AI       NOF         3t-2       124      393.5            113.6                   225.6
VT  sUilW W  20                     0-3       1.0    1*4U7               50.1                   107_2
DwSo        (-    CUDAL
_- -
P  Z6WAD O _A3                    662       13.3  V 3.1 /a             53.9                    63_S
Clo *a:   L                -        4.1        5.2       1. 7;            3.4                     2J8
.= Lou0 FMC (ZB3               6304.0     WL2650  15414.0                  
RImu CEa)                         26-1       32.7     32.5             33.5                    23_Z
A           ( ZC  )               66.0       50.0     34.0             S2.2                    31.5
2ma  CNm)                         9.0        17.0     29.0             17.9                    23.9
FAZZZF   lUamCFE (U
50M                               33.2       35.0     39.2             38.7                    3Z.2
NOCZ                              44.5       4.       52.4             50.9                    44.3
.mZz                             172        23.0     25.7             26.6                    15.2
aCcoom DEP210113= aim               1.4        113       0.9              1.1                     1.4
-=CE  OF -tWZ XICD
Z OF        05              _.       17.1     16.1 it          2Z.2
Oa ci inca               .        44_ 5    45.3 "7          4.-0
2  or             US  Q                      7- 7.1  5s7 71            6.4
X=   A F o i as _.                           17.7     16.979      U    15.5
u  cm aum  m  zm
663R5                               ..        ..         300  Ih      16                      2662
L                                  -.         ..         270.0 7iTP   152.0                   164.0
ZrnLm   xca      OIU   c
LI.L CSM P  CAIXA
Lim        ..    370.0 lb         177.9                '522S
AL                                  .          ..    310.0 7          164.6                   372.4
uzmaxw -. um *1M=
P06wY ==a 169K CZ)
SMa                                                    MO .  ..  lb0     23.4
mumL                               ..         .-    1L.0               37.7
_.   DMTrAL
a                  .-     w      L
D o T E S
to  Mm grow ai      s     nch Sicaze   e               4-~  atrtb   c m_m. Coweri, of co_utries mog the
ludimteog depend -  _auSlahelty of deet md la a n:em
lb 1Il.s ochezule Noted. -00e0 foe 1960   efOr to u jeer betwee 1959 4ed 1961; -Dt for 1970- betwen 1969 and
197n; me dwe  -a n hint -t.Uac  becoes 0 MOa  1962.
Ic  17; Jd 19J7    ; /        f u; i1 2; LL um.lgtezed.  a SU practicing in the cotj. lb 1976; /I 1976.
il;E. 1964



- 6I -p - 3-- -    -.. a
A"SI                                               _*l   _                                                     JI -a -,__S~ _
_ _~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ _.5                                                               31.   *641 32-    31 1 -3 I _    _3 _  _     ]    _
4-3 j-        - 63W    162563 f      22         5    -3-6
d- -   4-_-P- -    -a- - - -
A*-l                   .......- d-                                                -iZf * - _l-l T05 _                     .3i    a6. 
16631..  -   -  *6620 .3*3630.3                                   -   3.              mn   6      6136   -   233*6.U        
- S.            0 -  -0  -0 _  _,  _ _ 
'3         - 1._     *6 _  -   _      amS E -_* qpl _ _
626150  -   30 2133  06. 6 2 -w                                                   v_&pW -  _322 2-  __              , -     - l- ,  _A-
_ -_ ___ _~3C   _30      3_S b*6 _s 3a- s_   __. -n3              63
- 33031P-60'   .56L623    66
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a    -mil v ~-                                                                            J.  n"-w -     a_   _ S._ss__s__t 
b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                                   .a_                  Vb__S  _ g    _       A   _  _  _B___
_ -1  -  _ *3.   _.f 1 - _.                       _.    _) _3 _ _ *             -_ 49.350 i _      0 __  .2--l  _ a"    3
33-W ~        ~           ~          ~          qw
126C .21.361162 1.36  3-2              '3 16161 _-I .        1 3               _) J* _3    _                  3  _ .3116 6.-2d
Ps-sZ - . j _s- _s- o_ _ 8_-_ _ _ ~s-g-  j
__t_s ___r-     _.|_-- a_-an                                                                  p          a   331w _ _ _
P      l. _3        -_                                _      _?     6-  -. 1                           _ -   -l   _ iS-                                     ------
~~~~~~~~~62533                                                                                .3529 _36 _ _2_-s,15  66'.2   1230  _ _1am~ _n_
_I   _   _3  6_                                                                                         1 '632  2- _    _  _0 _    _.3 _               2- 0a_ 1
_-_ s-a- _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 0n_t-s _- _0 
P2- I    63-   0331-2   P   6   -633                      -33                          W      3-5      2606    -l  gm,53    --6 2 3
*3    32-3_ 2--i -   .3063.3.33                     a    m     61313  _I 61 1  2   _- *.          2_ _66.5 62.3 .3*       0 _  6
_ ~~ ~~* ~ _ ~~'*   5.39-                                           X          E__sa@s_ -   *-12  _1625  7_   _33     _    _ z       60
3,332  _ 12136._ _201                      _    _.3331   _500.3a    W a  _322.mfl3_93  21.5.53 I   1 3500  --2 -  5 6 _
-   2      2 _ -T3    1 2         =    .    16 -D  ___                            _      _      _      _    _    _        _                 __  _
1510.3 6-33 _6-   26.-   16               6 _  _ _ _ -  _0 3 _ - _33.                            - 3 t -*  .__  _.  _ 1 _ -   _a5                     __ a2
- 4M _|w_ _l_ _b_ _ _ 63- 26630_12.66_3o 2605 S631
=~~~~~~~~~65                                                           63   _006   _-_ 1- 26630 _                   __ _    _  ____t - 5__1  _.1_*_2
.3-   *_ .6.56 6_s               _3_ *0  _1    2__Ra 652632313-
_ -    3                   _0   _3         6  1 36.-  66. 3P    -                                     m      5     3125   _3265  - .105  3
7   2      __ a_.   -              sa   3W  31  . ,6 ._,31-                                 -    .._      ._  _-     -     --       _j  ,y           _     _ ,_
__3.3602C   _ .32-11                       _ _9      16356.                        61  a_  n        .   _,  3-p,          ,  _  - 
121        91662-               70102 _              0 -11   1631 -*_  -1                                                                3.35 -- _0_   -1_
-*~~~~6.  -Jv a  -332                                    -            -          4163   --3    3            0   I-; -I 61 23_62564__
ear~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         ,_06.    -l                             - --- -                     _-_t-.            _    Y _
6133  _00   P __2  _, -_ e-62166  6--09 103_ _636  65966                                        _3                        -   633        .6    -    _-_-25
_~~~~a                     .s                      -Il.    _3 __ _  -         Tme - 1l3   -   3 .            603  _136
2- _635 _             -          1- _,05 2-3115                                           _2 __63  6.3 _S 6 _                                           9321 1 _
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23  __1 _- _131 22-  1_27 _r _.3tX  | lX_  __
25            2-13        61_ _61   -_0  -*_ 26 2-36263                      *            63.66.  -w          __           - 0, ;36)52          -     3
_ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      60 ~          * _    s_  _3.2 3 -_    -26                                                    6 _    _  -s   _    __
5.216   _366  66                            -_ - -, 2      1             c       - _66 .33  ____   _26          _ u .23.    -   ~
__0140-    5163 _ _1,6231      *32-*   _  '7656  _46l                                   2-6-3   _1.               1   ~-  3-....  -                  2.136.36
_.62a _03 _ 02  a_  301 02  -*                         s  _666    _365 _3-    -626   2    3133    2-03063
2336   '3-1 . 3 -_ -v _--  -   -                 I663   _-   't.a                 _           013.361.363226261132
_ -6 _.4 _33~   _23 3   .323                      26~     * sW-    -z                                 .3  -g 02w   0            0       W    S  6-  '1 a;
.56    656           22    1-   6245   6    -23.--                                               316. .an  6   6657   _.0 61- '33.    -__6
1)660 ~       ~  _016  3311  '356      0622   3332                                                                                __:  _. _.16   16..6   1 1 0 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3060a   1126   _1 . _33  - _5716  61  .SWW
w_~~~~6                       _2   ___3:  __    36  1666                    73_1__3__ _3  _-  5.n32.  a
05222                _231  333221   5_213   1013                                        165..       _5.  _   ,3s_          _        0 .136 -  15_
-D _66        _      364  _6661  _6    326  _633              6  __22                   0_ __23     _0 1         -  56 _6 _a              6_1    _     __65_ 6_
'63              23               _         36  12  _3    303121.33  _                  _    101   _-_3 __
a                 _6W                       _W66           206_2                  _          31226   _;02  _  __ ___ _ ___  2_
6a              a-a31  -*                  6    150              a                      .662   3.              2s2-6                      -1 600656
2-  623   6W         333  2356-  5. 662-                   -Z 



A33 I
?s,u1etinu   39.331  ld-96Z. rousamds)        -                                                               Page 4of 5
CUP Par Ceptic   USS1.679 (1932)                            _2S
K    _A -    MC    13MICATORS
(.1llmm US at                    Anal growth rates (:) at coant prlees
current pri)                              ctul                              prected
Indicatr                                1962 is          1979     1979    lbO0        1961     196Z              2988
EALA  CCCTS
Ctes domaic pct                       68.*18            11.3      7.1      -3.5      7.1       5.3                7.5
agriculture                         I1.185            -4.0       6.7    -22.0      22.0      3.8                4.0
I~stcy                              26,767            20.8      8.4    -0.1         5.3      6.1                8.5
Service                             30,6K             11.0      6.0      -Z.4       3.6      4.8                8.0
CanPtim                               51.487            11.0      7.4      -1.0      3.7       3.6               6.7
Cross inwestusst                      17,514            35.9      17_5    -24.4       5.0      0_1                7.5
Izportc of CGPS                       26,575            17.5     -3.6       9.9      17.2      4.6                9.5
Importa of GSFS                       27,215            29.1      8a6      -7.7      8.5      -0.1               8.6
Cross ustiomal asvugs                 14.531            14.1      3.7    -17.7       3.0      18_Z               9,L
PRICES
GD ddefLtor (1975 - 100)                               164.6    197.4    246.7    286.2    309.1               464.1
xchage rate CuSSI -)                                   684.0    *84.0    607.6    681.0    731.1
Export price Inde" (1975 - 100)                        135.4    161.8    170.3    174.5    167.1                238.7
Ilport price index [1975 - 100)                        105I8    129.2    163.9    171.7    158.4               233.3
T.no of trade Index (1975 - 100)                       128.0    12S.2    103.9    101.6    105.5                102.3
Share of GOP at *arket prices (A) Average a--1 Increase  )
:et c(at prIces)                                t Ceut    c)
1960   1970    1951,    60198S   1990    L960-70  1970-75  1975-60  1980-R5  1985-90
Cross do s tic produec        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0           8.6      9.8       8.2      7_0       7.5
Agriculture                  36.T   26.9   24.5   16.5   15.9   12.4           4.3      4.9      -1_2      7.3       4.0
Industry                     20.1   29.5   3338   *1.3   46.4   49.2          17.4     IS.3      13.5      8.S       E.4
Services                     43.2   43.6   41.7   L2.3   39.7   38.3           8.1      7.T       7.6      6.7       7.7
Caunptiom                    85.3   83.0   R0.1   76.4   65.7   58.1           6.7      7.8       7.1      5.7       7.0
.ross ia,esmr-               11.0   26.9   29.0   30.2   33.2   33.8          23.6     11.2      14.6      6.0       7.5
Exports Df CUFS               3-4   14.3   27.6   35.7   63.7   69.6          29.3     25.4      16.1      9_8       9.5
Isports of auiS              12.8   26.1   36.3   42.7   42.6   63.9          20.2     15.8      17.0      6.8       8.9
cross uastcia savings         8.0   19.5   20.6   21.7    -         -         17.2     14.6       9.0     12.7       9.2
As 2 of GOP                  Labor Pores in 1960          Nllins   (1)
1960     19T0      1975     1980
PUnZC PIK1CE                                                                     Agriculture                 4.7      32.2
Current revenwus                     18.5      17.8     17.9     19.9          Inuatry                     3.9      27.1
Current expeodtres                   14.3     13.1      15.4      15.6         Services                    5.1      35.5
Curret surplus                        4.2      4.*       2.5      4.3          Uneployed                   0.7       5.2
Capital exprnditure                   3.4      6.4       6.4      5.9
Foreign f2_.ift                       ...      1.0       1.3      1.0             Total lAbor Force       14.5    100.0
t960-70        1970-75         1975-6          1980-85         195-90
0~ ISDITC
an,l GOP r     r et (Z)                              8.7            9.0             7.9              7.0             7.6
Ail CGNP per espits growth rate C5) 5.9                             6.9              5.2             5.5             6.1
Anual energy coe _pcio  growth rate (C)             14.2            9.6              8.7             5.7             6.0
lCOOL                                                1.9            2.7             5.4              4.2             *.2
3arginel savigs race                                 0.3            0.3              0.3             0.3             0.3
mport elasticity                                     2.2            1.6             2.0              1.2             1.2
East Asla and Pacific Regionl Offiee
February 1984



* r
- 26 -                                       Page 5 of S
Populatio= 39.331 (m4d-12.. aewaends)
CW Per Capi4t ciSsX.679 (1952)
IOWA - 3AKE OF PW?S. MaMWIL CrP. AL A D
(mILLI   SS P at rrea pries)
Indlcacor                                                       Actu;a   a_____             _d
L970   1973   19.8   1979        0 IS61 19E219 8
_ALAU  OF PA*ES
Expots of goods *s ervices             1.379  5.909  17,126  19.523 22.587 27.552 28.500          70.972
Of wuich mercbadtae f.o.b_             382  5.028  12.678  16.694  17.220 20.938 20.961         52.1S5
Imporst of goods and servces           2.180   7.992  18.651 26.115 28.360  32.676 31.500         76.003
Of wbleb- uertcbmia-e f.o0b.        1.804  6.671  14.636 19.2"6  21.606  24.337 23.361         58.616
get cmfers                               173    Z25    667    439    669    50         673          0sW
Curremt acconC balane                   -623 -1 858 -1 060 -4 1S3 -5 325 -6 618 - IS              -2 531
(C of GN)                              G7I) t-92)  <-2_) t-rff) (i'T- '               M  )  )    -1_6)
Direcz  ivrest                            66      53     61      17      -5      59    100           250
!ML low (net)                            262  1.252   2.216  2.945  2.096  4.267  2.051            2.296
wfffrlAl                               167    486    663    852   69   1.337   S33                635
Private                                 95    765  1.552  2.093   1.6OS  2.929   1.17t           1.659
Otber capital. (tori. errors 6 omisioso)  172    929   -S10  2.090  3.770    367    686            t.643
Chia, is e                               -57   -376   -707   -96   -536   -27S    -98             -1.6S7
Iureraatioas reserves (gros)             606  2.012  5,4M   6.303  6.839  7.116   7.212           16.387
tegerves as soteba liports               3_3    3.0    3.5    3.1    2_9  2_6    2.7                 2_3
31MML. CAITTAL AND NES
Official gramt                           -       -      -       -       -       -     54
cesio.al loan                          123    123    168    193    138        19    168
DAC                                  122    TOa    Tb       IT3    3Y         1 
OPEC                                   -       -      13     20      17       1      -
IDL                                    1      14       3      -       -      -       -
Otber                                  -       1      -       -
_1l    loans                           317  1.511  3 729  64 68  3.655  6 779  3 937
Offlcl esporr crdits                 18    151    219   'if        606    id      532
3RD                                    7    187    321    626    256    306    433
Other MLtiateral                       5      87      89     91      90    104    116
ivate                                287   1.083  3.101   3.591  2.705   3.525  2.851
!Iadt - and LOsA-Teu De-bt
Debt ooatandig a"d disherse          1.797   5.540  11.937  14.553  16.276  19.966 22.006
Official                             613  2.657  5.016   5.667  6.496   7.702  8.572
Private                            1.135  2.833  6,921  8.886  9.7e  12.263  13.633
,mdisber.d                             902   1.679  6.296   5.337  7.072   5.996  5.324
Debt Serwice an EZ loans
Total service paymnt                   268    667   1.825  2.578  2.762  3.597   ,199
Iuerest                             70    283    657    390   1.310   1.777  2.16
Pamla as Z:rts                        19.6   11.3   10.7   13_2    12.2   13.0   16.5
Sbort-Term Debt
Debt o      cataiag  -d dfeboraad      ---  2.409   3.575  6.279  10.o07  3.658  16.100
Interest payments                                      236    377    907   1.810   1.528
Interest as I ezports                  ...    ...    1.6    1.9    6.0    6.7    5.3
s         e In cst Rate on New Loam (2)
oq f.C                                 4 .5t   7.9    7.4    7.6    7.S    8.4    8.0
PriuSte                                7.1    9.3    9.7   11.4   16.0    13.6   13.7
Average Paturlty of Amv Loan. (years)
Official                              28.0   19.3   19.6   16.8   19.6   15.3   15.5
Private                               10.9    5.7   10.9   10.7   11.2    13.1    8.1
An  of debt outstanding
at end of  otr
year (1982)
Maturity stzucte of debt outstanding
Maurities dos within  5 years                       61
MaturtIes due within 10 year                       103
ntwWest structure of debt outstanding
Interes due within first year                        9
East Asa and Pacific Regional Offlc
ebruarv 19W



-27              1                             I
3QU~te 2
7Kz srS o0r BA  caan orFATroEs is m    uw=c o0 KoEA Is
A. Statemet of uk Loans and IDA Credits (as of Marc 31, 194)
oer                                                                          _A     CS  lIOO)
cwdit    Calendar                                                               (Iwo emacatiam)
Nuber       year         Narrower                                        lapsemnk  Ua       Um    U*tbersn
TIrty-al_a loe  and eigt credts fully disbursed                        2,051.77  40.00   115.3
1319        1976    ADC                  irrigatios                       29.0                          1.03
1364        1977    AKC                  r                                9.0                           9.35
1401        1977    Rpblic of Kore, Po  II                                67.0                          1.12
1503        1978    ADC                  lgricultur./irrigatou           36.0                         10.74
153         1976     Rlpubic of Korea  lural Iufrtuctne II                95.0                          2.15
g       1640         1978    Republc of Kama  niys IT                             143.0                          2.43
1666        179      Republic of Kora  a_ngje mulcipurpe                 125.0                         21.74
1676        1979     Rpublc of Korea Sl<ctrom   Technolo                  29.0                          8.47
1756        i"79    lepuc of Kore   Secod Qwaug3a Ragfola                 6S.0                         21.22
1774        197      Repubic of Krea  Populos I                           30.0                         24.83
1763        1979      ore Electric Co. Power                             115.0                          16.S
1600        1960     lepubl  of Korea  lduastin V                        100.0                         16.0G
1829        190    cm I                 Dew. Finane CO.                   30.0                          0.53
1836        1        Republic of Koe   RaNiay VII                        94.0                         S5S7
1m51        1960    AMC                  Agrculture Ir                    50.0                          6.22
1932        1931     K1MC TM             DIV. Finane C.                   90.0                         11.4
1933        191      MDs IV             DIV. FiNne CD-                   100.0                          2.60
1974        1        Rapublic of rea   Third Agriculture Credit           50.0                          2.1S
190         1931      epublic of Koea  Nat. Urbn Laud & lemming           90.0                          3.79
2004        1871    S     IV             Dew. Finacew Co.                 60.0                         19.78
2072        193      Republc of Korea   Vaer Supply                       90.0                         47.93
2111        1962   Rlpubc of Kore   Agricultural 1A1ketIng                50.0                         35.03
2112        1932      mC                 Tacrn.ogy Devalopeant            50.0                         2644
214         1932    cg                   nYC                              30.0                         19.07
2215        193      Republic of Kore    mcbhiney Industry                70.0                         66.70
2216        1932      epublic of  orea   Nat. Urba Lad and Usig          100.0                         94.78
2228        1932    lapublc Of Korea  Provincal and County Road          125.0                         10.29
2267        1933    tpubc of Korea  Cool and Cmt Distribution    122.0                                 121"7
2309        193        public of Kora   Inustri  Finam                   255.0                        243.74
2350        19       Republic of Korea  Scod water Supply                 78.5                         72.3
2354           3    Republic of Korea  Secod Structural djustment    300.0                            100.00
2383        194       ipublic of Korea  lomis loaol Dewlopsat             60.0                         60.00
2392        196      Republic of Korea  Eigwa Sector                     230.0                        230.00
Total                                                      5.105.27  40.00   1lS15      1.452.27
of which has ben repaid                                   606.96    2.16    5.S3
Total now outstandin                                       4,49632   37      109.74
C                    Mamt mold                   8.83
of wich   s bees repid  8.3                                  -       - 
Total nu  hld by Bank end IDA
(prior to e_oane adjutment)                             4,496.32   37.8   109.74
Total umdlebmrsd                                           1.452.27    -        -       1.452.27
/a  The statu  of the projcts lsted Is Part A are described Ln a separate report on aln sag&/Mh-fimaned
projects Is enecution, wbhch La updated twice Yearly amd circalated to the Ezecutive Directors on April 30
ad October 31.



h 11
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC nvestments (as of March 31, 1984)
F}-cal                                                     Amount (S illion)
year        Obligor           Types of Business           Loan       ty Total
1968    KDFC                   Development Financing         -     0.7    0.7
1969    Bou1  SLk Co.          Testlles                      1.4   0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper           Pulp and paper               4.5   0.5    5.0/1
1971     torea investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development    -     0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                   Development Financing         -     0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Invstment
Finance Corp.       Capltal Market Development   -      0.3    0.3
1975     Cold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products          16.0    1.3  17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Develepment  5.0   0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.       Synthetic Fibers             6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Hae Un D4e Develop-
ment Company Ltd.  Tourism                       2.8   0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development   -      0.4    0.4
1976     Cbouju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                        5.0   0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd. Zinc                          15.0   4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                   Development Financing       17.8    -    17.8
1976     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products         10.0   0.4   10.4
1977     Cold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products            -     0.2    0.2
1977    IDFC                   Development Financing         -     0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market                -     0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leaslng Corp.       Capltal Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KDFC                  Development Financing         -      1.1    1.1
1979     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products           -     1.7    1.7
1979    XIFC                   Capital Market                -     0.6    0-.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                      -     0.2    0.2
1979    Cold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products             -      1.5    1.5
1980/84 Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products             -     2.8    2.8
1960    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market                -     0.6    0.6
1960/   Korea Securities
82/84     Finance Corp.                                     -     2.3    2_3
1980    XDFC                   Development Finaucing         -     2.2    2.2
1981     Tafhan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.            Grain Port Terminal          7.0    2.5    9.5
1982    KIFC                   Capital Market                -     0.6    0.6
1982    K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development        -     0.6    0.6
1983    XDIC                   Money & Capital Market        -     0.9    0.9
Total gross commitment                           106.4   31.9  138.3
less cancellations, termlnatLona
repayment and sales                             92.2    5.6  97.8
Total comaitments now held by IFC                 14.2  26.3  40.5
TOTAL undisbursed
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



-29-                        ANNEY III
Page 1 of 1 page
IOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project         : 1 year
(b) Agency which prepared the project    : Government/KTDC
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project                     November, 1983
(d) Departure of appraisal mission         : January 30, 1984
(e) Negotiations completed                    August 24, 1984
(f)  Date of Board Presentation               October 23, 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness         : January 1985
Section II Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III Special Conditions
(a) A condition of effectiveness is:
Ci) the establishment of a Special Account (para. 60).
(b)  The Korean Government will:
i)  hold periodic exchanges with the Bank on its industrial technology
development policies (para. 33);
iii) (1) increase KTDC's authorized capital to W 37 billion by end-
1984; (2) provide KTDC with additional subscription to paid-in
capital of W 3 billion by December 31 1985; (3) provide RTDC with
Government loans of up to W 20 billion by December 31, 1985 with
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and (4) provide the
guarantees for KTDC debentures amounting to V 30 billion by -
December 31, 1985 under terms and condition acceptable to the Bank
(para. 42);
(iii)  confirm that KTDC will maintain effective minimum spreads of
2.5Z p.a. on all conventionaL loans, when taken together with
other cha-ges and fees levied by KTDC (para. 44).
(c)  KTDC will:
(i) raise W 13.3 billion in subscription to paid-in capital from the
private sector during 1984-86 (para. 42); and
(ii) review with the bank by the end of each fiscal year beginning in
1984. operational targets involving risk-sharing financial instru-
ments and targets for further promoting SMIs to be met in the fol-
lowing fiscal year and introduce modifications as would be agreed
(paras. 47 and 48).



IBRD 12351R3
_SISSR                               Ijr*           -       Zr        F'
r                    DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLES REPU3LIC                 I
CHINA $C                                       OF KOREA
Jaw' SeaEast    Sea
.-i^_0, ;pc             I
v.., KOWEA  JAPA%
Pac.I~~~~c               -G Y   ~                      ANG  WEON -N
Ea       _                                               r ce                                        ,
(I  ~~~aam- w-                                                                                                                   22
UN g gN
H                        G               G 
Yellow  Sea                                     _3
2r                                                                                                     r
2                                                               1                           A.,4u
r                             +,                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC OF KOREA
-_ i ~~~~~~~~~ ~Rely  und_ coencon                                     30
t                     - -  - Psc.nneaIl bow,dan.s
-       nWeracmepaI boa.dar..s
m) l o 2za *~~~0 40 SO1W lD 120, '40 ao
0       20 d        60 so         fO
46                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
.T                      Ia                                                                                              J . 
AUGUST 1984



