Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10761
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
JUNE 16, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10761-KO   Type:  (PCR)
MASON-ANDE/ X31676 / T9111/ OEDD2
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori?ation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           -            Korean Won (W)
$ 1                 -            W 800 (at appraisal)
$ 1                 _            W 799 tat completion)
$1                               W 700 (as of June 1991)
ABBREVIATIONS
DFC         -           Development Finance Companies
ITD         -           Industrial Technology Development
KDIC        -           Korea Development Investment Company
KIET        -           Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KTDC        -           Korea Technology Development Corporation
KTIC        -           Korea Technology Investment Corporation
SMI         -           Small and Medium Industries
SMIPC       -           Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
R&D         -           Research and Development
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
'DI,.zwcta,C.eral
.kv Evalatkn
June 16, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Korea
Second Technology Development Pro1ect (Loan 2473-KO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Korea - Second Technology Development (Loan 2473-KO)"
prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department II
of the Asia Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment                                               2
Thi document has a motrictod distribution and may be used by reciPbents only In tho PCrrnac
of their oMclit dutios. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wofld Bank authofiution.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
RORE
_RCOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-0O)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . *    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    ii'
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .       1
1.   Project  Identity  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
2. Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
3. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
4. Project Institution..                                                2
5. Project Implementation         ..                                    3
6. Project Performance..                                                3
Institutional Development       ..                                3
Technolcgy Innovation          ..4
Resource Mobilization        ..                                   4
Expansion of KTDC's Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
Expanded Support of SMIs   ..5
7.  Bank Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
8.  Borrower Performance .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
9.  Project Sustainability ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  7
10. Conclusions  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  7
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .       9
PART III  STATISTICAL INPORM&TIOI1 ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
Table 2.  Project Timetable  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .     32
Table 3.  Cumulative and Actual Disbursements  ...      .         33
Table 4.1 List of Subprojects Finance Under the Loan . . . .      34
Table 4.2 Distribution of Subprojects  . . . . . . . . . . .      42
Table 4.3  Selected Examples of KTDC Supported Subprojects  .     44
Table 4.4 RTDC Institutional Performance . . . . . . . . . .      46
Table 4.5 KTDC Financed R&D Projects Performed by Public
Research Institute  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     48
Table 5.1  Estimated and Actual Amount of Financial
Support (Currency and Instrument) . . . . . . .     49
Table 5.2  Estimated and Actual Amount of Financial Support
(Collateral Conditions) . . . . . . . . . . . .     50
Table 5.3  Estimated and Actual Resource Mobilization
(1984-1989) ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  51
Table 5.4  Estimated & Actual Financial Indicators 1984-1989      52
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Table 5.5 Estimated and Actual Income Statements 1984-1989 .    53
Table 5.6 Estimated and Actual Balance Sheets 1984-1989  .      54
Table 5.7 Estimated and Actual Sources and Uses of Funds
1989-1989   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .   .  55
Table 5.8 Analysis of Conventional Loans in Arrears
1984-1989   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .   .  56
Table 6.  KTDC's Shareholding, Ending 1989 . . . . . . . . .    57
Table 7.  Status of Covenants  .  .      . . . . . . . . .      59
Table 8.1 Use of Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs . . . . . . .    62
Table 8.2 Use of Bank Resourceb:  Missions . . . . . . . . .    63



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2473-KO)
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of the results achieved under the
Second Technology Development Project in Korea, for which Loan 2473-KO was
approved on October 25, 1984. The US$50.0 million loan was made to foster
technological development of Korean industry through continued support for
the Government's effort to accelerate the development of industrial
technology. The loan proceeds were channelled through the Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC) and aimed at assisting KTDC in its
institutional development, technology innovation, resource mobilization,
operational expansion and support for small and medium industries (SMIs).
The loan closed on June 30, 1989 with about US$4.8 million of the loan
amount undisbursed and canceled. The last disbursement was made on June
28, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department II, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and
portions of Part III). The PCR draws on the Staff Appraisal Reports for
the Second and the subsequent (approved in 1988) Third Technology
Development Projects (Loan 2913-KO); the Loan and Guarantee Agreements;
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and KTDC; internal
Bank memoranda; KTDC's financial reports and project data provided by KTDC.
It presents a review of the implementation of the project, the extent to
which institutional objectives were achieved and the results of the
investment made. KTDC have been very helpful in providing useful data for
Part III and submitted their respective Part II as contribution to the PCR
in a timely manner.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND 'iECHNC'LOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2473-KO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The overall objective of the loan of $50.0 million was to foster the
technological development of Korean industry through continued support for
the Government's effort to accelerate the development of industrial
technology. The specific objectives of the project were to: (a) assist
KTDC's institutional development; (b) assist KTDC's catalytic role in
technology innovatio.i; (c) help establish a resource base for KTDC; (d)
expand KTDC's operations involving risk-sharing financial instruments; and
(e) expand KTDC's support to SMIs. The project consisted of two
components: (a) a line of credit of $49.7 million to cover KTDC's foreign
exchange requirements during 1984-86; and (b) a technical assistance fund
of $300,000 for KTDC institutional development (paras. 3.1-3.2). The loan
followvd a previous successful loan to KTDC (Loan 2112-KO; First Technology
Development Project; 1982) for which a PPAR was issued on June 13, 1989
(PPAR No. 7906)
2.    Overall the project components were successfully executed.  KTDC
committed and disbursed about $45.2 million three months later than the
originally estimated schedule at appraisal and the loan closed in 1989 in
accordance with original appraisal estimate. Commitments under the loan,
however, were slower than the first loan largely beeause of the high
premium on Bank funds (resulting from the appreciation of the currencies
which dominate the Bank's pool of currencies) and the availability of
foreign exchange from commercial sources at comparable interest rates
without foreign exchange risk (para. 5.1).
3.    Under the Bank loan KTDC approved 89 stubprojects amounting to W26
billion of which 50X was financed by KTDC. Funds allocated for
institutional development was reallocated to the line of credit because
KTDC opted to utilize cost-free UNDP funds and other subsidized sources of
financing (paras. 5.2-5.3).
4.    Overall the project has been successful and achieved most of its
objectives. KTDC's staff capabilities and skills in technology financing
were strengthened significantly. KTDC staff participated in overseas
training covering areas such as managing technology innovation, financing
R&D, venture capital operations and small business management during 1984-
87. Several KTDC staff participated in UNDP-financed overseas training.
Some of KTDC's staff also participated in a UNDP sponsored seminar in
project appraisal techniques in Korea. KTDC established close links with
related local and foreign institutions and concluded bilateral cooperation
agreements with them (paras 6.1-6.2).
5.    KTDC supported projects at all stages of technology development from
R&D start-up to first commercialization. Of its total financing through
1989, about 821 -went to in-house R&D activities including process



- iv -
improvement activities; 7% to technology imports; 9% to commercialization;
and 2% to the purchase of research equipment. KTDC has also prs-evaluated
372 proposals under the "Industrial Technology Support Program" of which 44
have been actually financed by KTDC (paras. 6.3-6.4).
6.    During the project period (1984-87), KTDC mobilized resources
amounting to W170 billion which compared favorably with the W167 billion
estimated at appraisal. COf this amount, 67% was sourced domestically,
albeit largely through the direct and indirect assistance by the
Government: through borrowed furds under the Government's special loan
program, through equity, and through indirect support by way of Government
guarantees of the Bank loan and domestic debentures and by way of tax
incentives to privately-funded KTDC equity (para. 6.5).
7.    KTDC's objective of expanding operations involving risk-sharing
instruments fell slightly below expectations but continued to improve with
an encouraging trend. Only 75% of the projected amount at appraisal was
realized. However, the sha,e of risk-instruments to total instruments
continue to inc;ease from 4% in 1983 to 14% in 1986 (para. 6.9).
8.    KTDC exceeded original expectations of providing expanded support to
SMIs. KTDC's support of SMIs increased from 29% in 1983 to 76% in 1986 in
terms of total financing. However, while SMIs account for 85% of total
local currency funding in 1986 (due in part to the requirement for
utilization of- government-funds), SMIs utilization of foreign currency
funds continue to be low. Factors which contributed to this low level of
utilization were the reluctance of SMI sub-borrowers to assume the foreign
exchange risk; and the Bank's reporting and approval re4uirements which the
SMI sub-borrowers considered to be too cumbersome (para. 6.10).
9.    KTDC continued to show satisfactory financial performance during the
period 1984-89, attributed to a significant increase in its lending
portfolio, rapid growth in investment income and governm.3nt interest rate
subsidies until 1988. However, Government subsidies dropped from a high of
20% of total income in 1984 to 4% in 1986 and were eliminated completely in
1989. These reductions reduced KTDC's margins well below the covenanted
spread of 2.5%. The quality of KTDC's conventional loan portfolio
continued to be sound throughout the project (paras. 8.1-8.3).
10.   Despite the excellent performance to-date, KTDC's future prospects
are still evolving and not exactly clear. Although it is now a well
established financial institution staffed with qualified professionals,
KIDC needs to adjust itself to a liberalized financial sector environment.
KTDC's future plan would be followed up in the context of the supervision
of the follow-on Third KTDC loan approved in 1988 (paras. 9.1-9.3).
11.   KTDC has maintained a souni financial position reflecting partially,
the quality of credit appraisal of its specialized staff. While most of
its investments are not start-up ventures in the true sense of the word,
KTDC has certainly pioneered a new business and help develop an environment
and a pool of professionals for later capital venture companies. An
independent study of KTDC's effectiveness indicate that KTDC has had a



- v -
positivet imp*-"t for technology development in KTDC-financed companies
through its role as technology broker and financier (para 10.1).
12.   Several important lessons emerged from the implementation of the
project: (a) making the financing of industrial technology development
successful requires a favorable policy framework; (b) the significant
private sector participation in KTDC and the corresponding management style
have contributed to its success; and (c) financing technology ventures by
foreign exchange loans, particularly for SMIs, increases the credit risk
during significant foreign exchange fluctuation (para. 10.2).



PROJECT COMMLETIOM REPORT
KOR-E
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KC)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW WOH BANK'S PER-PECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Name                      Second Technology Development Project
Loan Number               2473-KO
RVP Unit                  Asia Region
Country                   Republic of Korea
Sector                    Industry
Subsector                 Technology Finance
2.        Proiect Background
2.1       Korea's industrial development can be described as one of
transition from import substitution to export promotion through policies
which have stimulated high labor productivity and international
competitiveness. Since the early 1970s, the Government has furthered
industrial technological development to support industrial development.
Research institutes, industrial standards, testing and educational
facilities for technicians and scientists were set up, providing a solid
infrastructure for industry to move to the next stage of development. At
the same time, the Government has provided a policy framework which
stimulated both domestic industrial research and development as well as
technological transfer from abroad.
2.2       The Bank's direct involvement in assisting the Government's
effort to foster industrial technological development was initiated in
1979 with Bank financing for the Electronics Technology Project (Loan
1676-KO). The project sought to develop the capacity of the Korea
Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) to support the local
electronics industry by providing specialized services, manpower training,
acquisition of foreign technology and %Xy undertaking, jointly with
industry the feasibility of establis.Ing a Korean-run, advanced
semiconductor processing facility. The Bank also supported the newly
founded Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) with three loans
totalling US$150 million between 1982-88 (Loans 2112-KO, 2473-KO and 2913-
KO). The Bank assisted the Sm-'l and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
(SMIPC) (Loans 2215-KO and 2515-KO), which complements the activities of
KTDC by providing support to small- and medium-scale (SMI) industries for
expansion of facilities. In May 1983, IFC invested W750 million in the
newly created Korea Development Investment Company (KDIC), a venture
capital companry whose primary objectives include the provision of equity
finance for commercialization of new technology. The Bank has also
extended education sector loans (Loans 1800-KO, 2427-KO and 3037-KO) to
improve the quality of higher education in science and engineering, and to
increase the supply of qualified Korean engineers, technicians and
managers.



-2-
3.        Project Oojectives and DescriRtion
3.1       The overall objective of the proiect was to foster the
technological development of Kurean industry through continued support for
the Government's effort to accelerate the development of industrial
technology   Specifically, the project aimed at:  ,a) assisting KTDC's
institutional development through technical assistance, staff development
and training; (b) assisting KTDC's catalytic role in technology
innovation; (c) helping to establish a res.urce base, for KTDC that would
be sustainable over the long-term; (d) expanding KTDC's operations
involving risk-sharing financial instruments such as conditional loans and
equity investmerts; and (e) expanding KTDC's support to S."Is. The loan
followed a previous successful loan to KTDC (Loan 2112-KO; First
Technology Development ProjeLt; 1982) for which a PPAR was issued on -June
13, 1989 (PPAR No. 7906).
3.2       The project consisted of two components:  (a) credit line of
$49.7 million to cover the estimated foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects financed by KTDC during 1984-86; and (b) $300,000 for
technical assistance to support KTDC's institutional development programs.
The TA component included: (i) consulting services to support the
operations of KTDC and training of its staff, both to further deepen
KTDC's capacity to identify, appraise, and supervise research and
development (R&D) projects and to enable KTDC to carry out surveys of the
technological needs of Korean industries; and (ii) pur-chase of training
materials for KTDC staff.
4.        Proiect Institution
4.1       KTDC was established under the KTDC Act promulgated on December
31, 1980, and the associated Enforcement Decree issued on April 22, 1981.
It was created with strong support from the Coverrument and the private
industry. The Bank played an active role in KTDC's conception, and in
designing its ownership, organizational structure, and operational
policies and procedures. KTDC's principal goals are to promote the
development of industrial technology and to facilitate desirable changes
in industrial structure, so as to strengthen the international
competitiveness of Korean industry.
4.4       In November 1986, I-DC established its own venture capital
subsidiary under the auspi :.s of the "Small and Medium Sized Industries
Inauguration Promotion Act-. The subsidiary, Korea Technology Investment
Corporation (KTIC) makes equity investments, convertible bonds and bonds
with warrants in its financing of new, small, high-growth potential
companies, principally at their start-up stage. KTIC started with a paid-
in capital of W20 billion from the Small and Medium Indu.,try Promotion
Corporation (SMIPC) iz 1986; at the end of 1987, KTIC's paid-in capital
stood at W8.6 billion of which 43% is KTDC's share of the equity. KTIC
invested W2.2 billion in 22 start-up companies with the cooperation of
KTDC in 1987.



- 3
5.        Project Imilementation
5.1       Overall, the project components were successfully executed.
KTDC's utilization of the loan has been satisfactory; although loan
disbursements have fallen short of appraisal estimates necessitating a
revision of the disbursement schedule. The loan was committed and
disbursed three months later than the estimated schedule at appraisal
About US$ 4.8 million of the undisbursed amount was canceled on the
scheduled closing date. Commitments under the loan were considerably
slower than the first loan largely because of the high cost of Bark funds
resulting from the appreciatlon of the currencies which dominate the pool
of currencies for which sub-borrowers were liable. Another factor causing
the slow race of commitments was the relatively easy availability of
credits in Won for borrowing in foreign currencies at competitive interest
rates, without foreign exchange risk. On its part, KTDC can be commended
for waking great efforts, under the circumstances, to on-lend Bank funds
and to explain to sub-borrowers the operation and risks of the Bank's
currency pooling system.  The estimated, revised and actual disbursements
during implementation of the project are given in Part III, Annex 3.
5.2       Under the loan, KTDC approved 89 subprojects amounting to WB23.7
billion. Total suburolect cost amounted to W55.8 billion (about US$67
million), of which 42Z was financed by KTDC. loe approved subprojects
wore about equally distributed auoag the major industrial subsectors in
which KTDC concentrates its lending: machinery and metals (29X);
electrical and electronic goods (29X); and chemical and other products
(422). All subloans under the Bank loan went for conventional lending and
most went to large sized companies. About 70X of the sublran amount were
above tbe free limit of US$ 300,000, requiring Bank-approval.  There were
27 subloans above the free limit and 62 below the free limit. A detailed
distribution of aubprojects is given in Part III, Annexes 4.1-4.3.
5.3       Under the flrst project, US$650,000 was earmarked for staff
development and training. Similarly in ths second project, US$300,000 was
allocated for such a purpose. However, KTDC opted to utilize grant funds
from UNDP and other concessionary sources. Therefore, funds allocated for
institutional development was reallocated to the line of credit.
6.        Z=4g't Performance
6.1       Inj>jtutionMl Develovment.  KTDC's organization has changed
periodically to meet the needs of the rapidly changing indvis..rial and
venture capital environment. It is a well-managed company and employs
well-qualified staff. Presently, KTDC has 65 professional stuff, which
include 22 engineers, seven lawyers, and 32 financial analysts or
economists. This is in line with the appraisal expectations. Continued
staff development is important for KTDC in its role of financing
technology development. Twenty-five staff participated in overseas
training covering areas such as managing technological innovation,
financing R&), venture capital operations and small business management
during 1984-89. Fifteen KTDC staff participated in the UNDP-financed
overseas training of a Bank-executed program called KTDC Institutional
Development Project" while 19 staff also received the UNDP/Bank-sponsored
Project Appraisal Techniques seminar in Korea.  There were other domestic



-4.
external end on-the-job training provided during the period and presented
in detail in Part III, Annex 4.4 of the report.
6.2       KTDC has also established close relationships with local and
foreign financial institutions for training and information exchange. In
1987 it concluded a bilateral cooperation agreement with three local and
five foreign institutions including Japan Associated Finance. Through
this network, KTDC participated in international seminars in Paris and
London to share experiences and establish coo-kration ties for technology
transfer.
6.3       Technology Innovation.  KTDC supported projects at all stages of
technology developr.ent from R&D start-up to first commercialization. The
projects financed various activities such as idea generation, feasibility
studies, technical R&D, development of prototypes and pilot plants,
preliminary production and test marketing. Of its total financing through
1989 about 82% went to in-house R&D activities (including process
improvement); 7% to technology imports; 9% to commercialization; and 2% to
the purchase of research equipment. Of the Bank-financed 89 projects
under the loan amounting to US$45 million, 49% of the total amount (US$22
million, 49 in number) was for R&D; 31% (US$13.8 million, 18 in number)
was for technology import; 8% (US$3.7 million, 8 in number) was for the
purchase of R&D equipment; 7% (US$3 million, 7 in number) was for the
improvement of the manufacturing process; and 6% (US$2.6 million, 7 in
number) was for the commercialization of new products.
6.4       KTDC has been empowered by the Ministry of Science and
Technology to undertake technology pre-evaluation for the "Industrial
Technology Development Support Program" which is partially funded by the
Government in its efforts to promote cooperative research between public
research institutions and induscrial firms. During the project period,
KTDC, in close consultation with the Technology Review and Advisory
Committee, pre-evaluated 372 proporals of which 44 have been financed by
KTDC amounting to W14 billion (See Part III, Annex 4.5 for details).
6.5       Resource Mobilization.  During the project period, 1984-87, KTDC
mobilized resources amounting to W170 billion, compared with W167 billion
estimated at appraisal. Of this amount, 65% was sourced domestically
amounting to Wlll billion. This effort was accomplished largely through
the direct and indirect assistance by the Government. Of the W170 billion
mobilized during the period, the Government has provided 6% (W1O billion)
in equity and 22% (W37 billion) in government loans to KTDC from the
government's special loan program with favorable terms and conditions.
The Government also provided indirect support by: (a) guaranteeing the
Bank-financed loan which contributed 35% (W59 billion) of total resources
and domestic debentures2I which contributed 30% (W51 billion); and (b)
providing tax incentives to private-funded KTDC equity, which contributed
8X (W13 billion) to total resources mobilized for the period. Foreign
currency resources mobilized amounted to W59 billion sourced solely from
the Bank-financed loan (See Part III, Annex 5.3).
.1/ During 1983-88, KTDC issued ten series of debentures with various
discounts with the payment of principal plus interest guaranteed by
the Government except for the tenth debenture.



6.6       Since January 1987, four established venture capital companies
inuluding KTDC have obtained the sanctions of operating venture investment
partnerships, leasing and factoring operations under the auspices of the
New Technology Business Financial Support Act. Investment partnership was
a newly introduced vencure financing scheme in the country in 1987 for
facilitating the inflow of domestic speculative capital and for providing
sources of venture capital. The investment partners solicit venture
capital funds from limited investors including institutional investors
such as pension funds and financial institutions. KTDC acts as general
partner responsible for managing the fund portfolio. KTDC created three
partnership funds: KTDC1 amounting to W2 billion in 1987; KTDC2, W3.5
billion in 1988; and KTDC3, W5 billion in 1989.
6.7       Expansion of KTDC's Operations. Of the total projected amount of
W264 billion for financial instruments for the period, KTDC approved a
total amount of W250 billion. Of this amount, Conventional Loans totalled
W226 billion (vs. estimate of W232 billion); Conditional Loans, W5 billion
(vs. estimate of W7 billion); onvertible Bonds, W9 billion (no estimated
figures); and Equity Shares, W9 billion (vs. estimate of W26 billion).
The share of local currency loans (Conventional Loans, W160 billion and
Conditional Loans, W6 billion) continue to dominate KTDC operation at W166
billion having been approved for the period. Foreign currency loans,
which are solely Conventional Loans, amounted to W68 billion.
6.9       A major goal of KTDC, and supported under the project is to
expand KTDC operations involving risk-sharing instruments, such as
conditional loans and equity investments, including convertible bonds.
During the project period, KTDC's actual performance in this category of
instruments fell slightly below expectations but continued to improve with
an encouraging trend. While at appraisal risk-sharing instruments were
expected to amount to W32 billion (on approval basis), the actual results
were W24 billion, representing 75X of the projected amount. The
encouraging note is the noticeable trend towards expanded risk-sharing
operatioiis. The share of conditional loans and equity investments
(convertible bonds and equity shares) increased from 4K in 1983 to a high
of 14X in 1986. The trend continued as the proportion of expanded risk-
sharing operations reached a level of 18K in 1989 The detailed
performance of these operations are provided in Part III, Annexes 5.1-5.2.
6.10      Exoanded Sugport of SMIs.  KTDC exceeded expectations of
providing expanded support to SMIs through timely promotional activities,
technical/managerial advice and increased financing of SMI R&D projects.
An indication of these efforts were the gradual shift from the past
dominance of larger corporations in the KTDC portfolio to small- to medium
scale corporations. KTDC's support of SMIs increased from 29K in 1983 to
76K in 1986 in terms of total amount of financing. The results are even
more pronounced in terms of number of companies: 174 out of 198 projects
financed in 1986 were SMIs. KTDC's total financial commitment up to
December 31, 1986 is equally shared between SMIs and large corporations.
However, while SMIs account for 85K of total local currency funding in
1986 (due in part to the requirement for utilization of government-sourced
funds), SMI's utilization of foreign currency funds, including Bank-funds
continued to be low. Of the 89 subprojects financed by the loan, only 47K
went to SMIs amounting to W18 billion or 40K of total loan amount. The
low utilization of Bank loan funds by SMIs is in part a reflection of low



-6
import content of their projects. But there were two additional
contributing factors: the reluctance of SMI sub-borrowers to assume the
foreign ex:hange risk; and the Bank's reporting and approval requirements
which the SMI sub-borrowers considered to be too cumbersome. These
constraints have been addressed in the succeeding third project.
6.11      Under the government's program of promoting promising SMI's,
KTDC sought to reinforce the competitiveness of technology development
among SMIs by making continuous efforts of selecting and supporting
technology intensive SMIs. Forty companies have been selected as most
promising by KTDC during the project period.
7.        Bank Performance
7.1       Following the successful implementation of the first loan to
KTDC, this operation represented the second phase of the Bank's continued
support of the government's efforts to accelerate the development of
industrial technology. Bank involvement in the preparation and
supervision of the project has contributed not only to strengthening
KTDC's institutional development, but also to periodic discussions with
Government of its R&D policies especially with regard to establishing
closer links between industry and public research institutes and its
support and promotion of the industry's R&D capability.
7.2       Supervision effort on the project was generally adequate.  The
preparation and appraisal missions for the Third Technology Development
Project were de-facto supervision missions for this project.
8.        Borrower Performance
8.1       KTDC's financial performance continued to improve significantly
during the period 1984-89. The net income before tax increased from W38
million in 1984 to W6.5 billion in 1989. As a result, KTDC's financial
position continued to be satisfactory with a debt equity ratio of 3.9 in
1989. KTDC's good financial performance can be attributed to: (a) a
significant increase in its lending portfolio, averaging annually at 20X
from 1984-89; (b) a rapid growth of its income from equity investments
(which yielded an annual average growth of 69%); and (c) government
interest rate subsidies of about W10.8 billion from 1984-88. In 1984 the
share of interest rate subsidies to total income was as much as 20X; by
1988, it dropped to 4% and was non-existent in 1989. A more detailed
presentation of KTDC's financial operations and condition from 1984-89 can
be found in Part III, Annexes 5.4-5.8.
8.2       The importance of government subsidies/interest rate support to
KTDC finances cannot be overlooked because without this subsidy for the
first and second Bank loan and for its debentures in 1985 and 1986, KTDC
would have recorded net losses of W1.8 billion in 1984, W1.7 billion i.
1985 and W0.4 billion in 1986.
8.3       Without government support in the future, KTDC's ability to
mobilize resources at competitive terms while maintaining a sound
financial situation is unclear. In 1986, the Government reduced the
interest rate subsidies to KTDC for the first Bank loan and KTDC
debentures, reducing KTDC's margins well below the covenanted minimum



spread of 2.5X (Section 2.10 (c) and (d) of the Loan Agreement). The
total spread on average total conventional loans was 2.20X in 1985; 0.96X
in 1986; 1.23X in 1987; 1.832 in 1988 and 2.21X in 1989. (See Part III,
Annex 5.4 for details.)
8.4       KTDC's conventional loan portfolio remains sound with a very low
level of non-performing assets (less than 22). Most of the conditional
loans are also of good quality. However, the quality of equity
investments is mixed. As of December 31, 1989 KTDC's total equity
investments amounted to W21.1 billion of which investments in 12 companies
amounting to W2.9 billion were non-performing. KTDC did not make any
provisions against these investments in 1989 since Korean regulations
provide for such exemptions. However, the impact of these non-performing
assets on KTDC's overall financial condition is fairly limited.
9.        Proiect Sustainabilitv
9.1       KTDC is now a well established financial institution staffed
with qualified professionals. The demand for their service is growing as
Korean industry develops rapidly. More and more would-be entrepreneurs
are aspiring to begin their own business, and more and more enterprises
have become more technologically oriented to cope with increasing
competition in the local and international markets. Their ardent desire
to succeed in technology venture is the most important factor to ensure
sustained performance of technology financing institutions like KTDC.
However, KTDC needs to adjust itself to a liberalized financial sector
environment.
9.2       The  main challenges facing KTDC for the 1990s are two-fold:
first, it needs to develop a sustainable strategy for resource
mobilization with government support, and second, it must compete with
other institutions in a progressively liberalized financial sector
environment. On both points, KTDC's future prospects are not yet clear.
The elimination of government's financial support means that KTDC needs to
offer a broader range of financial products and fee-based services. This
will require a modification of KTDC's Act which constrains it from
diversifying its services.
9.3       The Government had intended to fully privatize KTDC by divesting
its 222 shareholdings (the remaining 782 is held by private companies,
Asian Development Bank and Deutsche Entwicklungslandern Gmbh) by 1990.
However, so far diversification efforts have been unsuccessful because of
stock market conditions. Furthermore, in order for KTDC to qualify for
stock market listing, it will need to show at least a 152 return on equity
in the year of the listing. This will require a sharp rebound in KTDC's
future profitability through a product diversification strategy. Whether
KTDC can manage to continue to have a niche in technology financing and in
being an active promoter of R&D and technology adaption while facing
pressures to increase its project remains to be seen.
10.       Conclusions
10.1      The project was clearly successful in achieving most of its
objectives. First, KTDC has maintained a good quality portfolio with only
2X of its assets considered non-performing. This reflects, at least



- 8 -
partially, the quality of credit appraisal of specialized staff for
technology oriented ventures and companies. Second, although most
investments are not true start-up ventures, KTDC certainly pi,neered a new
business and helped develop the environment and a pool of professionals
for later venture capital companies. Third, a study by KAIST indicated
positive impact for technology development in KTDC-financed companies
through its role as technology broker and financier. Today, KTDC is
considered a model for technology financing institutions which many
developing countries are trying to establish.
10.2      Several important lessons emerged from the implementation of
this project:
(a)  Making the financing of ITD successful requires a favotable
policy framework. During the project preparation and
implementation period, the Government undertook important policy
measures which helped in developing ITD projects. These
included: (i) encouragement of R&D by industrial firms with
strong incentives; (ii) liberalization of foreign technology
imports; and (iii) encouragement of closer linkage between
industry and non-profit R&D institutions.
(b)  The ownership structure and management responsibility of KTDC
have contributed to its success.  KTDC has strong private sector
participation, which ensures its close ties to the industry.
Although the Government is the largest shareholder, KTDC's day-
to-day operation has been fully delegated to its management
without bureaucratic interventions. This is the key which
enables KTDC to respond quickly to its customers's changing
needs.
(c)  Financing technology ventures by foreign exchange loans,
particularly for SMIs, increases the credit risk at a time of
significant foreigr. exchange fluctuation. This experience of
KTDC's SMI clients was reported to be the major deterrent to
greater use of the Bank loan.



- 9 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 11 -
I.  KTDC'S ROLE AND LOAN OBJECTIVES
1. KTDC'S ROLE
1.1    The  principal   role  of  KTDC   is  to  promote  and  accelerate  the
technological   development  of  Korean   industries  and  to   foster   local
entrepreneurship among industries in Korea.
1.2    To fulfill this role, KTDC performs its functions through the following
instruments :
(a) Long-term R&D Financing : up to 10 years repayment period including a
3-year grace period.
(b) Venture Capital (or risk-sharing) Financing : KTDC uses venture capital
financing as  a means of  technology financing.  This  includes  equity
investment, conditional  lending,  convertible  bonds  and  bonds  with
warrants.
(c) Brokerage Services : KTDC's extensive networking with local industries,
financial   institutions,    overseas   companies   and   international
organizations enables it to provide brokerage services in matchmaking
researchers and entrepreneurs both in Korea and abroad.
(d) Investment Partnership Management : This is a venture capital financing
program to make investment in new or existing small and mediL cized
industrial companies in the form of equity investments, convertible
bonds or bonds with warrants.



- 12 -
(e) Leasing and Factoring : These financing operations were recently added
for flexible financing and add-on financing to the SMI clients of KTDC.
(f) Information Services : Because of its intimate knowledge of the status
of technology development and the needs of the industries, KTDC has
been commissioned by the Government to evaluate projects applied to
"Industry-led National Research and Development Project Program". The
Program is designed to stimulate private sector's industrial research
works  by  providing   government  financial  support  in  part.   KTDC
recomends to the Government the prioritization of the applications.
2. LOAN OBJECTIVES
1.3    The main objective of the loan was to give support  of the  Government's
effort to facilitate the structural transformation of Korean industry through
acceleration of  industrial technology development.   Specifically, the project
was to : (a) assist KTDC's institutional development through technical
assistance, staff development, and training ; (b) assist KTDC's catalytic role
in technology innovation  ;  (c)  establish  the  foundation  for  a  long-term
resource base  for KTDC ;   (d) expand KTDC's operations involving risk-sharing
financial instruments : and (e) expand KTDC's support to SRI.
1.4    The Loan Consisted of :
Part A : A line of credit to help cover costs of industry-sponsored R&D
subprojects.



- 13 -
Part B : Institutional development of KTDC, comprising (i) consulting
services to support the operations of KTDC and training of%KTDC
staff, both to further deepen their capacity to identify,
appraise, and supervise R&D projects and to enable KTDC to
carry  out  surveys   of  the  technological  needs  of  Korean
industries ; and (ii) purchase of training materials for KTDC
staff.



- 14 -
II. KTDC PERFORMANCE
1. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Legal Framework and Ownership
2.1    KTDC was  established under the  KTDC Act promulgated  on  December  31,
1980, and the associated Enforcement Decree issu'd on April 22, 1981. This
special KTDC Act and the associated Presidential Decree enable KTDC to :
(a) operate in an autonomous manner with the efficiency of a private company.
(b) to have a strong and independent management, and
(c) to have the ability and means to attract an,t retain staff of high caliber
and entrepreneurship. All these factors are most critical to the success of an
operation of KTDC. Public interest in KTDC, by way of Government financial
support, such  as  equity  contributions,  loans,  ioan  guarantees,  etc.   is
safeguarded principally through Government representation on KTDC's Board of
Directors, exercising the usual rights of a silareholder. To prevent KTDC from
being dominated by any one private shareholder, the KTDC Act stipulates that
the ownership of any shareholder, with the except4on of the Government and
international development financing institutions, be limited to no more than
7% of the total shares issued, and that in case any such shareholder's shares
should exceed 7% of the total & ares issued, his voting rights would be
limited to 7%.
2.2    The ownership of KTDC has undergone gradual changes in the course of the
last 9 years. With the acceptance of Asian Development Bank in 1988 and German
Finance Company for Investments in Developing Countries in 1989 (DEG) as a



- 15 -
shareholder and the transfer of a sizable portion of the governments' share to
Korea Development Bank in 1987, the ownership structure of KTDC at the end of
1989 stood as shown in Annex 14.
2.3    The government  has announced its  in  rion to sell its 15.1% interest
in KTDC in 1990, the remaining 7% by 1992 to KTDC's existing shareholders who
don't exceed 7% of the total shares issued.
Operating Policies
2.4    KTDC's Operating  Manual provides broad  guidelines for its  operations,
including the scope of loan and investment activities, criteria for investment
decisions, diversification of assets, promotion of SMI, relations with clients,
and generation of profits. Combined with other operational policies (such as
limiting KTDC's equity investments in any single enterprise to not more than
10% of its paid-in capital and reserves), there are adequate safeguards to
protect KTDC from an undue concentration of its assets.
2.5    Details of the terms and conditions of KTDC's loan and equity investment
and procedures are given in the Statement of Investment and Operational
Policies. KTDC has promoted and financed the following types of projects under
the second Bank loan
(a) Loans for in-house R&D costs and/or for the cost of contracts for
technological development with external research organizations ;



- 16 -
(b) Investments and loans for initial efforts for the commercialization of
the results of R&D ;
(c) Loans for technology import or for the adaptation and improvement of
imported technology
(d) Loans  for   engineering  costs  associated  with  the  construction  of
industrial facilities ;
(e) Technical advisory services to industrial enterprises with respect to
the business activities referred to in (a) through (b) above and/or
technical feasibility surveys for other R&D facilities ; and
(f) Use of  foreign specialists and technical advisers, and training of R&D
personnel.
Project Supervision
2.6    KTDC has  established supervision systems  and procedures which are more
efficient and effective than those established during the implementation of the
first Bank Loan.   Projects encountering financial  or operational difficulties
are closely monitored by the responsible department. The systems .ith which
ongoing projects are classified by the degree of need for supervision have been
developed and being implemented in order to improve performance in this regard.



- 17 -
Korea Technology Investment Corporation (KTIC)
2.7    KTIC was  established in November  1986 as  a  cibsidiary  of  KTDC  to
operate in accordance with the Small and Medium Enterprise Inauguration
Assistance Act. As stipulated by the Act, KTIC specializes in financing newly
established SMI through equity investments and partnership venture fund
operations.
KTDC benefited from KTIC through ; (i) offering subsequent financing in
various forms to the SMI clients of KTIC, and (ii) accumulating know-how on
venture capital operations (equity investments and partnership venture fund).
Organization, Management and Staff
2.8    The responsibility for the  policy  and  general  direction  of  KTDC's
business rests with the Board of Directors headed by a Chairman, who is the
Chief Executive Officer of one of the large industry groups. The President,
who reports directly to the Board, is responsible for KTDC's overall
operations. The Board has fully de,egated authority to approve individual
loans and investments to the Executive Directors' Committee c3nsisting of all
directors that are managers of KTDC. Such delegation enables KTDC to respond
quickly to private industry's changing R&D needs.
2.9    KTDC's organization has ('anged periodically  to meet the  needs of the
rapidly changing industrial and venture capital environment. KTDC now has
eight departments aside from three Branches in Pusan, Kwang-Ju, Tae-Gu and one
representative office in U.S.A. In 1990, another domestic branch will be
established in Tae-Cheon to provide support to promising entrepreneurs. The



- 18 -
three Project Finance Departments, which are divided by major industrial
sectors (machinery and metal, electric and electronics, and chemical and
others),  are  responsible   for  project  identification   and  appraisal  al,d
supervision.   The Project Promotion Department is responsible for planning and
coordination relevant to appraisal, supervision and investment partnership
management. The Fund Management Department is responsible for fund raising and
investment  of   liquidity  assets  ;   and  the  Planning  and  Administration
Department is responsible for planning, budgeting, personnel and other support
services. The International Business Development Department is responsible for
brokerage service and other international business. The Leasing Department is
responsible for leasing business.
2.10   At present,  KTDC has 65  professional staff of  which 22 are engineers,
7 lawyers, and 32 financial analysts or economists.
Staff Development and Training
2.11   As a result of KTDC's major role in financing as technology development,
staff development  has  special  significance.   Despite  its  recruitment  of
qualified staff with some experience, the absence in Korea of persons with
experience in technology financing or venture capital caused KTDC immediately
to develop an extensive program of domestic and overseas training along with
regular staff reassignment, generally after three years.
2.12   From 1984-1989,  25 professionals participated in overseas training (for
two weeks to one year). The programs have covered such areas as managing
technological innovation, financing  R&D, venture capital operations and small



- 19 -
business management. From 1984 to 1987, under a UNDP-financed and Bank-
executed "KTDC Institutional Development Project", fifteen staff received
overseas training. The UNDP project also funded the training of week-long
project appraisal techniques  seminar in Korea  for 19 staff.   KTDC's domestic
training mainly consists of : (a) Master of Business Administration programs at
graduate s-hools ;   (b) on-the-job  training  in  KTDC  and  KTDC's  portfolio
companies ;   (c) courses at  a training center for bankers in Korea ; and (d)
two or three-day in-house training as well as language training.
2. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Overall Operations
2.13   KTDC approved  1,304 projects between  1984 and  1989,  providing  seed
money which had a substantial multipliers effect on industries' investments
in R&D.  Total approval amounted to W391.1 billion during the period.
2.14   KTDC supports  projects at all  stages of  the  technology  development
process from  R&D start-up to commercialization stage, 82% going to in-house
research activities, 7%   to technology imports, 9% to commercialization, and
2% to purchase of research equipment. The distribution among industries had
been made fairly even with the proportion of 37% for machinery/metal sector,
30% for electronics/electrical sector, 33% for chemical/others sector.



- 20 -
Financial Support to SHI
2.15   KTDC supports  all industries including  large-scale  enterprises,  but
special emphasis is placed on small and medium-sized industrial companies.
The task of KTDC's preferential treatment to SMI was difficult to accomplish
during the initial period of its business operations, given the conditions of
technological development capability and early awareness of technology of the
large-scale enterprises in the industrial sector. Most of the SHI had limited
in-house technological capability for developing R&D projects, limited
international exposure to identify sources of technologies or ideas for
products/processes,  and   financial  constraints.   KTDC's   support  to  SMI
increased  from less than  30%  in 1981/82  to over 95%   in 1989 in  terms of
total amount of financing. The results are even more highlightpd in terms of
tho number of projects ; 273 out of 278 projects financed in 1989 were SHI's
projects.
Venture Capital Financing Instruments
2.16   KTDC employs various types of financial instruments which is one of the
factor that  differentiates KTDC from  other financial  institutions.   KTDC's
commitment by category of risk-sharing financial instruments including equity
investments, convertible bonds, conditional loans amounts to W44.0 billion.
or 11.3% of total approval during the period 1984-1989.
The number of investment portfolio companies in this category is 125 firms as
of now. Of the investee companies, 9 companies were brought to the public
stock market giving KTDC hefty returns on its ventur capital investment and
about 10 companies will be taken to public offering in 1990.



- 21 -
Relationship between KTDC and its clients
2.17   KTDC maintains  a  very close  and cooperative  relationship  with  its
clients. KTDC typically receives preliminary inquires from entrepreneurs,
researchers, and inventors with project ideas. A project idea at that stage
is, sometimes, neither well-conceived nor sufficiently developed to constitute
a bankable project.   Through interviews with potential applicants, KTDC staff
also provide advice  and suggestions based  on their own  expertise.   Once  a
formal application is received, the technically-trained and business-trained
project appraisal officers work together in evaluating the applications. In
case that the project sponsor is in critical need of KTDC's managerial
support, KTDC helps the investee company by dispatching its staff to the
company for  a certain period  time upon the  investee company's  request.   A
notable feature of KTDC's assistance to its portfolio companies is that KTDC's
wide network of industry information and professional financial and managerial
expertise may be taken advantage of. Based on its expertise and wide network,
KTDC provides a comprehensive support for the growth of its portfolio
companies, which encompasses managerial and financial consultation, even
including the groundwork for going public.
2.18   As the  number of KTDC's  client companies  reached  approximately  470
industrial companies, KTDC has been able to act as an intermediary among them.
Activities  include   complementary  sourcing  of  components  and  parts  and
assisting in marketing aspects, providing opportunities for the exchange of
information on technology and business trends.



- 22 -
Resource Mobilization
2.19   KTDC  mobilized   W318.2  billion  during   the  period  1984-1989  to
accomodate the  significant  expansion  of  its  financing  activities.   KTDC
successfully mobilized resources in the amount of W28 billion as equity,
borrowed from the government W79 billion and floated Technology Development
Debentures in the private capital market totalling W96 billion during the
same period.   For foreign currency  resources, KTDC induced  three loans from
the Bank equivalent to US$ 150 million and borrowed the foreign currency of
US$ 34.7 million from the KOREA LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK for the prepayment of
the first bank Loan.
2.20   Bisides, investment  partnership fund has  been  introduced  as  a  new
financial resource.   The partnership is formed by soliciting investment funds
from limited investors including institutional investors such as pension funds
and financial institutions for the purpose of equity-type investment in new
start-up companies or existing small and medium-sized companies. KTDC acts as
a general partner responsible for management and investment operations of the
partnership fund. Partners are distributed with capital gains or losses from
the investment operations in accordance with the proportion of the partnership
interest. As this partnership is regarded as a seperate and independent
entity, seperate  management and administration  is  handled  by  KTDC.   KTDC
formed three  partnership funds in  the amount of  W2.0 billion in  1987  and
W3.5 billion in 1988 and W5.0 billion in 1989.



- 23 -
Financial Performance
2.21   Annex iO  summarizes KTDC's actual overall financial performance.  KTDC
recorded the first net profit in 1984.
In 1989, it accomplished a remarkable net profit of W5.6 billion without the
goverment's interest rate differential subsidies.
3. Accomplishments
2.22   KTDC is  now  widely  considered  as  a  leading  technology  financing
institution in Korea and many countries are trying to establish a similar
organization.  Venture  financing and  R&D  financing  activities  draw  wide
attention and the promotion of these financing activities constitutes an
important  element of Korea's  industrial technology  development  drive.   In
addition  to   KTDC,  three  other   venture  financing  corporations  namely,
Korea Technology Financing Corporation(KTFC), Korea Development Investment
Corporation(KDIC). and Korea Technology Advancement Corporation(KTAC) have
been encouraged under the New Technology Financing Support Act to promote
venture capital business. Furthermore, 35 other start-up investment companies
in the nature of KTIC have been created up to now.
2.23   KTDC's activities  in the venture capital field have attracted a number
of new private venture capital companies which benefitted either directly or
indirectly from KTDC's past achievements and contributions in the field of
R&D financing.   In a sense,  KTDC has been  a pioneer in showing the way and



- 24 -
nurturing the climate in the technology financing area. Also, it has been an
important institution responsible for the realization of Korea's objectives in
the field of science and technology.
2.24   Regarding its  operational aspect, KTDC,  by and large  took a  prudent
investment strategy in its initial stage with emphasis on nurturing the
technology development climate in Korea's industries and slowly injected the
venture capital concept for the sound management and financial viability of
technology ventures.   After  KTDC  earned  a  well-established  position,  it
shifted to a more aggressive financing strategy by employing more risk-sharing
instruments.



- 25 -
III. THE BANK'S CONTRIBUTION TO KTDC
3.1    From 1984  to 1989, KTDC  approved 1,304 projects  amounting to  W391.1
billion,  out of which  W99.6 billion was  in foreign currency.   For  foreign
currency resources, KTDC relied mainly on the three Bank Loans equivalent to
US$ 150 million.
3.2    The approval of the Bank Loan t. KTDC encouraged both the government and
the private sector shareholders to accelerate their subscriptions.
3.3    The Bank  suggested to  KTDC  to  strengthen  its  supervision/follow-up
functions of venture financing to increase the weight of venture financing and
to enhance its profitability. The suggestion helped KTDC to develop more
specific and efficient supervision/follow up systems.
3.4    As a  result of the  above mentioned, the  Bank's contribution to  KTDC,
KTDC is now maintaining its leading position in the field of R&D financing and
venture capital business in Korea in spite of emergence of many domestic
competitors.   In addition, the  Bank's and KTDC's experience gained during the
evolution and implementation of the project would be useful in assisting other
countries planning to  establish R&D financing  institutions.   KTDC  strongly
hopes the bank's cooperation and support will be continued in 1990's.



- 26 -
IV. LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT
Several  important   lessons  have  emerged   from   the   evolution   and
implementation of the project.
4.1    The role  of the government  and its  strategies  are  crucial  to  the
success of this project.   To date, the government has initiated an impressive
array of policies and administrative measures to facilitate the development of
industrial technology. Policies and administrative measures have been to :
(a) encourage R&D  investments  by  industry  as  much  as  possible  ;   (b)
liberalize foreign technology imports : (c) increase the linkage between
industry and non-profit research institutes : and (d) create suitable
financing   mechanisms  for  R&D  activities  and  venture  capital  business
(including KTDC), particularly for  SMI.   Furthermore,  to  complement  these
measures, the government has increased education sector investments to improve
the quality as well as the quantity of technical manpower.
4.2    The government  is the largest shareholder of KTDC.  But the government
allows KTDC to operate in an autonomous manner and give it the ability and
means  to  attract   and  retain  human   resources  of   high   caliber   and
entrepreneurship. This is a key to the projects' success because KTDC had to
respond quickly to its customer's changing needs and environment.
4.3    There has  been an increasing number of would-be  entrepreneurs who are
aspiring to begin businesses and private innovators who are dreaming of



- 27 -
commercializing  their   R&D  projects.   Existing   small  and  medium-sized
companies are continuously trying to improve their technology capability to
cope with severer competition in the local and international market. Their
ardent wishes and efforts are decisive to the project's success. But, it is
true that some of Korean entrepreneurs are concerned with a erosion of
potential profits and dilution of their ownership.
4.4    Fluctuation of exchange rate between currencies in the pool of the bank
loan has been passed on to the subborrowers of the Loan. The fluctuation risk
was reported as a deterrent for the greater use of the Loan. KTDC hopes the
fluctuation more stable.



- 29 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-O)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table It RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No.          Title                      Purpose             Approval    Status               Comments
167C    Electronics Technology    Develop capacity of KIET and   1979      Closed
support local electronics Industry.
2112   Technology Development     Support institutional develop-  1982     Closed
ment of KTDC.
2215           SMMI              Finance SMI subprojects and TA  1952      Closed     Loan to IBK, CNB, KLB and SMIPC.
SMI machinery industry.
2427     Science & Technology     Improve quality of education in  1984    Closed
Education            science and engineering.
2515            SMi              Finance SMI subprojects and TA  1985      Closed         Loan to CNB and SMIPC.
to SMIPC.
w
2913     Technology Develop-      Continue institutional support  1988    Supervision      Closing date is 12131192
ment IlIl                 of KTDC.
3037   Technology Advancement    Strengthen industrial develop-  1989    Supervision      Loan to KIT. ITC and KERI
ment In SMis by enhancing
R&D education
3202     Technology Advance-       Improve R&D capacities of     1990    Supervision  Loan to KAIST, GEC. KSRI and KIER
ment 11          science, engineering, biotech, etc.
3203     University Science &      Assist selected universities  1990    Supervision  Loan to KAIST, GEC. KSRI and KIER
in basic research programs
in science and technology
KIET - Korea lnslitute of Electronics Technology                ITC - Industrial Technology Center
IBK - Industrial Bank of Korea                                  KERI - Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute
CNB - Citizens National Bank                                    KAIST - Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KLB - Korea Long Term Credit Bank                               GEC - Genetic Engineering Center
SMIPC - Small & Medium Industry Promotion Corporation            KSRI - Korea Standards Research institute
KIT - Korea Institute of Technology                             KIER - Korea Institute of Energy and Resources



- 32 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 2: PROJECT TUIETABLE
Item                    Date Planned                Date ActUal
Identficaon Mission              May 1983                   May 1983
Preparabon                 October 1983                October 1983
Pre-Appraisal Mission
Appraisal Mission             January 1984               January 1984
Post-Appraisal Mission
Loan Negotiations               July 1984                 August 1984
Board Approval              September 1984              October 1984
Loan Signature              November 1984              November 1984
Loan Effectiveness            January 1985                January 1985
Loan Closing                 June 1989                  June 1989
Loan Completion                June 1987                  June 1987



- 33 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-K0)
Table 3: CUMULATIVE AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS Millikns)
Appraisal lEstimate       ?.S     21.S      39.0     4ao       S0.0      S0.0
Revised Estimate          3.0     14.8      28.5      41.5     S0.0      S0.0
Actual                    5.7      1 6.6    33.3      44.0     45.2      45.2
ActuaJ as a %
of Estimate             76.0     77.2      85.4      91.7     90.4      90.4
Date of Finam atsbursement: Jun   2 28,01989



- 34  -                                      Pane  l of 8
- '1OND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473.KO)
Table 4.1: UST OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER THE LOAN
CATEGORY               CCO1PANY NAME                                PROJETt NItAME                   DISSE VSS)
2-A-01     DONG BANG OIL                           Development of the niweat soybean proceasing         580,429.13
syst"e
2-A-02     HANNAM COIE4CAL 0.                      Technology Import of Continuous Mass Polls"        I .0.418.80
rxzacion Process of San Resin
2-A-03      YUKONG LTD.                            Purchase of Equipments for l&D Center                664.862.53
2-A-04     YUCONC LTD.                             Development of heavy oil cracklng process            885,810.33
2-A-05     SAMSUNG PRECISION                       Development of Die Making Process of Semi-         1.515.901.79
conductor Lead Frames
2-A-06     SAMSUNG PRECISION                       Development of Plating Process for Sesi-           1,037.142.23
conductor Lead Frams
2-A-0t     KOREA SH.PBUILDING                      Development of Stainless Sceeel Electric             728.966.86
Rail Csr
2-A-08     CHIrL SUGAR 6 CO., LTD.                 The Development of -Incerferon                       807,725.42
2-A-10     DAEU`OO EECTRONICS                      Developmenc of Tentaljus Electrolyt:c Cape-        1.512.679.46
citors
2-A-12     ORIENTAL CHMD IND.                      Development of Manufacturing Process of              457.094.75
Magnetic Recording Materials and Piezo-
electric Ceramics
2-A-13     HYUNDAI MDTOR CO.                       The Developmenc of Middle sized Gasoline            1.511.038.86
Engine
2-A-16     HANKUK GLASS INDUSTR                    Purchase of R&D Equipments                           6-7.768.41
2-A-18     DONG AH PRECiSrON CD.                   Development of Y-Bar and Z-Plate Crystal           2.472.076.88
Quartz Groving Proceses
2-A-19     HAm-rL E-HWA Co.                        The Develootent of the Automobile lIterior           591,987.42
Trim parts(2)
2-A-20     CIA MOTORS CDRPORATI                    Import of Technology/Technical Assistance          2.426,738.94
for Engineering & Establishmen of Metal
Finishing Plnt
2-A-21     KIA HMTORS CORP.                        Import of Technology/Technical Assistance            668,822.00
for Engineering A Establishment of Autostic
Conveying Syscem in Natal Finishing Plane
2-A-22     CHErL SUGAR 1 CO.                       Import of Interferon-Alpha production                 785,728.72
technology by recombinanc dna mcthod
2-A-23     ORDEG CO., LTD.                         Technology import of ceramic monolithic             1.235,44S.07
catalysts for the qutomotive emission control
2-A-25     SUNG MOON ELECTRO                       Localization of thin matllized film for             1.017.736.18
capacitor
2-A-26     SUNKYONG CO.                            Technology training for plant design &                550,780.78
engmneering capability enhancement
2-A-27     CHEIL SUGAR CO.                         Import of Inerferon-Gama production                1.221.178.82
technology by recombLnant DNA mthod
2-A-28     CHEIL SUGAR CO.                         Import of hepatitis 8 vacClne production            1.119.613.92
technology by recombi.nnt DNA mthod
2-A-29     tOREA IND MTOR co.                      The developwenc of high efficiency induction          764,864.28
motors
2-A-30      KORSIL CO.. LTD.                       The import of wafer anufacturing technology         1.500.000.00



- 35                                     Pate 2 of 8
CATEGORY                 COMPANY NAME                                 PROJECT NAME                       DISBURSEMENT(USS)
2-A-31      DAEWOO AUTOMOTl''E CO.                   The Development of start Motor parts for              1.200,000.00
Heavy Duty Vehicle
2-A-35      HANKUK ENGEL;ARD                         Improvement of manufacturing process of               1,391,351.35
monolithic 3-way catalyst for automocive
emission control
2-A-37      DAEDONG HEAVY INDUST                     The Localization of Unit forSpecial purpose           1,000,000.00
Machine
2-B-01      OTTOGI FOODS CO., LTD.                   Development of raw EGG processing technology            150,748.83
2-B-02      OTrOGI FOODS CO., LTD.                   Development of Food Additives .-ith Dooestic            305,835.88
Agricultural Products
2-B-03      SONG WOLN INDUSTRIAL                     Development of Manufacturing Process of                 227,506.94
Antioxidants Including Finderec Pheno; Group
2-B-04      YOUL CHON PRINTING                       Development of High Grade Plastic Films                 242,164.02
2k-B-06     DAEWOO ELECTRONIC CO.                    Importation of Capacitor Manufacturing                  231,308.11
Technology
2-B-07      DAEh.0 ELECTRONIC CO.                    Localization High Voltage Capacitor for                 368,039.01
Microwave Oven
2-B-08      SUNG MOON ELECTRO                        Localization of Metalized Film for Capacitor            797,007.63
2-B-09      HAN IL E-WHA CO., LTD.                   The Development of the Automobile Interior               97,911.26
Trim parts(l)
2-B-10      KEOHWA COMPANY                           The Import of R&D Equipments                            378,416.15
2-B-11      GOLD STAR HONEYWELL                      Localization of Automatic Controls Products             300,588.93
and Systems
2-B-13      GOLD STAR INSTRUMENT                     Localization of the SAW Filter                          101.108.31
2-B-14      SUNG WOUN INDUSTRIAL                     Development of Polyester Based Polyurethane              80,899.89
Polymer(Moldable Thermoplastics) Manu-factu-
ring Process
2-3-16      GOLD STAR PRECISION                      Development of Micro Precision Motors for                55,609.37
VTR's
2-B-17      HAN IL E-WHA CO., LTD.                   The import of Manufacturing Technology for               50,554.15
Bus Seat
2-3-18      KOREA HEAVY INDUSTRY                     The Development of Partial Integral Rotor               452,522.32
2-8-19      SAMSHIN SPINNING CO.                     Development of a Fancy Yarn Spinning Process            325,108.83
2-B-20      KIRIN SYSTEM CO., LTD.                   The development of Poinc of Sale System and             165,820.67
Management Information
2-B-22      DOOSAN COMPUTER CORP                     Development for Localization of Laser Printer           108,962.43
2-8-23      DOOSAN COMPUTER CORP                     Development of Chinese Character Processing              62,923.50
CRT Terminals
2-3-24      HOEHOON TRADING COL                      The Development of WEATHER STRIPS for the                93,979.72
Automobiles
2-B-25      KIA MOTORS CORP                          Technical Assistance for Engineering of                 1'16.416.39
Paint Circulation SupplF SFstem
2-B-26      KIA MOTORS CORP                          Technical Assistance for Engineering of                 224,976.40
Electrostatric Automatic Spraying System
2-3-27      SUNG SAN CO.                             The Development of Lamp for 470K/T Car                  420,390.56
-B-28      SUNGMI TELECOM ELECT                     The Equipment Procurement for the R&D                    71,152.14
Activities
=B-29      GOLD STAR MICRONIS                       The development of shadow masks for new                 275.135.47
model C-TV's



-36  -                                  Pa,e 3 of 8
CATEGORY                COMPANY NAME                                 PROJECT NAME                      DISBURSEMENT(USS)
2-B-30      A-POINT CO.. LTD.                       The development of factory management                   69,698.02
.P                             automation aystem
2-B-32      DAE-SUNG ELECTRIC                       The Development of printer tractor                     149,976.06
assembly and parts
2-5-33      ORIENTAL CHEMICAL                       Technology Import of Electroless Cipper                402,902.75
Plating Solution and Solder Resist for
Through-hole Printed Circuit Boards
2-B-34      KOREA HEAVY INDUSTRI                    The Development of Design Technology for              473,469.29
Power Plant Equipment
2-B-35      CHANG WON LTD.                          The Development of Ferrite powder and                  489,905.7
seramic materials
2-B-36      SAM HWA CAPACITOR CO.                   .he Development of High-Voltage Ceramic                308.793.35
Disc Capacitors
2-B-37       SAM HWA CAPACITOR CO.                    The Development of Compound for Ceramic               190,190.00
Disc Capacitors
2-B-38      KOREA BERAL LTD.                        The Development of Break  Friction Materials          501,781.41
of Automobile
2-B-39      YOUNG SUH PRECISION                     The Development of Micro DC Brushless Fan             226,080.46
Motors
2-B-40      SAMSUNG CHEMICAL IND                    Manufacturing process improvement of Non-             181,400.65
Toxic PVC film
2-B-41      DAELIM EKG CD.                          Technology Import of Tray and Packing                 333,354.22
2-B-42      CHOKWANG PANT IND.                      The Development of Etching Primer for PCB             146,680.46
2-B-43      KO-SHIN ENERGY MGT                      Development of Auto-control Equipments for            199,924.33
the Industrial Boilers
2-B-44      KOREA GREEN CROSS                       Commercialization of I.v Catheter                     150,000.00
2-B-45      SAM SUNG WATCH CO                       Development of Plstic Watch                           167,247.74
2-3-46      KYL'%G NONG CORP                        Development of New Horticultural Fungicides           659,406.83
2-3-47      YUYU IND CO.. LTD                       Development of Ticlopidine                             80,021.34
2-B-50      KOREA DENKI ONKYO                       The Development of DY. FBT for new model TV           198,558.56
2-B-51      KOREA SEAL MASTER CO.                   Development of Siliconized Graphite for               100,000.00
Mechanical Seal
2-B-52      SUNGMI TELECOM ELECT                    The Technology Import of Digital Microwave            420,000.00
Radio Telecommulication Equipment
2-B-53      HI SEONG METAL IND                      Development of molivden parts for the                 499,076.86
magnetron of micro wave oven
2-B-54      GYUNG GI GELATIN CO.                    Development of gelatin for hard capsule               140,000.00
2-B-55      SUNG SAN CO., LTD.                      The Development of Rear Comb. Lamp for GM             248,198.20
H-Car
2-B-56      SAE RON BUL INC.                        Development of Head Lamp & Combination                 80,000.00
Lamp for Exporting Automobiles
2-8-57      DOING SEON SPECIAL                      Development of E.C.B.(Ethylene Copolymer               119.135.14
Bitumin)
2-B-58      CHOSUN BREWERY CO.                      Purcnase of R&D Equipments                              29,691.35
2-B-59      OVAL KOREA CO., LTD.                    Development of tank truck lading system               300,000.00
2-B-60      YOUNGBO CHEMICAL CO.                    Development of Block Type Cross-Linked                 121,968.11
Polyethylene Foam
2-B-61      KOREA MULTISUN CO.                      Development of PP-C Pipe Manufacturing                 100,000.00
System



- 37-
- 37 -                        ~~~~~page 4 of a
CATEGOY                 OOMPANY Nm                                   PROJZ  NME                         DISBCWSEWCTIUSS1
2-W-62      SAM SUNG WATCH CO.                      Development of Movcwnt for Wrist Watch                 398,918.92
2-8-63      ORIENT PR2ISION CO.                     Thc Development of Electronic Hemomanometer            500,000.00
2-B-64      ORIENT PRECISION CO.                    The Automation of Hbat-Run Process                     500,000.00
2-B-65      NAE WAE ELECTRIC CO.                    The Development of Rminder IC                          255,000.00
2-B-67      SOE RAE IND. CO.                        Development of Doors for Automobiles                   496,396.40
2-B-68      DONGSUNG CHEM IND. CO.                  The Development of Special Oil and Paper               200,000.00
Additive
2-B-69      [UJE PHARMA IND. CO.                    Improvement of manufacturing process of                200,000.00
antibiotics
2-B-70      IMNALL PHARM CO.                        Development of Cefoxitin                               "9610.80
Total                      45,040,436.79



- 38 -
Project Cost              A nvl AJmtt
C.ATEGORY          CONPASY NAMIE             Iil.Von(A)  Thou.U$ (B)   KiI.You(C)   Tbou.gS(D)
-                                       -     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2-A-01    DON6 BANG OIL                        613          624          480          6000
2-A-02     KNANNA  CHEMICAL Co.              2,185          388          500         1.500
2-A-03    YUKONG LTD.                          524        1.847          500         1.WO0
2-A-04     YUKGSG LTD.                         612        1,753          500         1.500
2-A-05     SAMSUNG PRECISION                   087        1,589          500         1,500
2-A-OS     SAMSUNG PRECISION                   455        1,000            0         1,000
2-A-07    KOREA SHIPBUILDING                   690          850          500          850
2-A-O8     CHEIL SUGAR & CO., LTD.             757        1,031          500          800
2-A-10    DAIVOG ELECTRONICS                   625        1.832          500        1,500
2-A-12    ORIENTAL CEN IND.                    421          800          330          600
2-A-13     MEDAI MOTOR CO.                  13,043       13,038          500         1.500
2-A-16      AIKL! GLA4SS INDOSTR                70          530            0           630
2-A-18    DOlG AK PRECISION CO.                591        2,730          500        2,500
2-A-19     H W-IL E-EVA CO.                    350          600          300          000
2-A-20    UA MOTORS CORPORATI                    0        2,350            0        2,350
2-A-21     KIA MOTORS CORP.                      0          740            0           740
2-A-22     CHEIL SUUAR & CO.                     0          800            0          800
2-A-23     ORDEG CO.. LTD.                   5,174        2.813          500         1.43
2-A-23     SUNG NOON BLECTRO                   210          910            0           910
2-A-25     SUNKYONG CO.                         50          '680            0          5o0
2-A-27    CHEIL SUGAR CO.                        0        1,439            0         1,200



- 39 -                                  Ia."  6 of I
Project Cost               Atpio,l Amt
CATEGORY            COMPAY  ANAI               ViI.Von(A)  Thou.U $(B)   mI1.Vw(C)   S M.US1D)
2-1-28     CHEIL SUGLa  CO.                     I so7        2,270           471         i,tW
2-A-29     KOREA In  NOTOR CO.                   319         1,OO0           los         1l6oo
Z-A-30     10iOIL CO., LTD.                       S         E.l66             0          .l9,O
2-1-31     DAEWOO AUTOMOTIVE CO.               1,007             0           S00         l,.
2-1-35      IUKN  IELW                           399         1,400           300         10,4
2-A-37     DAIDONG HEAVY IMT                     597           514             0         low
2--01      OTTOGI FOODS CO.. LTB.                311           175           220           175
2-B-02     OTTOGI FOODS CO., LTD.                412           325           28            35
2-3-03     SONG VOUN INDUSTRIAL                  570           250           450           250
2-B-04     YOUL CAD1 PRINTIEG                  1,6839        3612            250           2
2-5-06     DAKYG0 ELECTRONIC CO.                   0           230             0           3
2-1-07     DAMVOG ELECONIC CO.                   113           380          le            2
2-B-08     SUWG  001 ELECTRO                    450           500           200           5"
2-3-09     I-IL 1-VA CO., LTD.                   185            97           100            97
2-1-10     uOIVA COOMY                             0           425             0          425
2--11      GOLD STAR HONETLL                     39          1,032           30G           4U
2-B-13     GOLD STAR INSTRUNUT                   244           220           200           100
2-B-14     SUNG VON INDUSTRIAL                   256            80           200            as
2--18      GOLD STAR PRECIsId                    S 309         170           250          l7
2-3-17     UN-IL 1-NA CO.s LTD.                     0           so             0 
2-3-18     Omu Mif  INDUSTRY                     374           460           300           40
-1-19    SS151   SPINNING Co.                  120          300            K            2
-B-20     11113 SYSTEM CO., LTD.                318           170           28            175



- 40 -                                 IUZ2~
- 40 -                      ~~~~~Palo 7 of 8
ProJect Cost               Approval howt
CATEGORY            CO   PANY NAME              Mil.Won(A)  Tbou.US (B)   Hil.Won(C)   Tbau.U  (D)
2-3-22     DOOSAN COMPUTER CORP                   293           110           250           110
2-3-23     DOOSAN COMPUTER CORP                   301            60           250            Q0
2-B-24     HOEROON TRADINfG COL                   117           200           100           200
2-B-25     KIA MOTORS CORP                          0           270             0           270
2-B-26     KIA MOIORS CORP                          0           400             0           4W
2-9-27     SUNG SAN CO.                         1,040           420         1,040           420
2-3-28     SUNGMI TELECOM ELECT                    27            75            20            75
2-B-29     GOLD STAR MICROMIS                     557           270           450           20
2-3-30     A-POINT CO., LTD.                       90            70            50            70
2-5-32     DAE-SUNG ELECTRIC                      227           150           150           150
2-3-33     ORIENTAL CHEMICAL                      490           400             0           too
2-B-34     KOREA HEAVY INDUSTRI                     0           470             0           470
2-B-35     CHANG WON LTD.                          50           500           500           50C
2-5-36     SAM EVA CAPACITOR CO.                  666           300           490           30C
2-B-37     SAM HWA ,APAL'TOR CO.                  580           200           450           20C
2-3-38     KOREA BERAL LTD.                     1,T25           500           tO0            me
2-B-39     YOUNG SUB PRECISION                    846           132             0           280
2-3-40     SAMSUNG CHENICAL IND                   435           180           360          1I
2-3-41     DAELIM ENG CO.                         366           335          -300            8
2-B-42     CHOKtyNG PAIN IND.                     747             0           350           160
2-3-43     1O-SHIN ENERGY HGT                     425           200           300           t0o
2-B-44     KOREA GREEN CROSS                      400             0           200           150
2-3-45     SAM SUNG WATCH CO.                     572           234           450           201



- 41 -
Page 8 of -
Project Cost               Approval Auunt
CATEGORY           COMPANY MANE                Mil.Voa(A)  Thou.US (B)   mil.von(C)   Tbhu.US(D)
2-8-46     MYUNG NOMG CORP                       313          488           250          450
2-8-47     YM  IND CO.. 'TD.                     388            0           250           too
2-B-30     KOREA DENKI ONyO                      647            Q           485          200
2-B-5I     KOREA SEAL MASTER CO.                 279           100          200           100
2-3-52     SbNGMI TELECOM ELECT                               425             0          425
2-B-53    1I SEONG METAL IND                       0          500             0           Soo
2-B-54      TNG GI GEUIIN Co.                    440          752           370           140
2-1-55    SuEG SX C3o.. LTD.                     536          250           538           250
2-B-56     SAE RON BUL INC.                      519           100          400           100
2-1-57     DONG SEO!I SPECIAL                    255           120          200           120
2-B-S8     CEOStUs BREERT CO.                     36           185           30           18
2-B-59     OVAL KOREA CO., LTD.                  325          300           260           S00
2-B-60     TOuNoBO ClINICAL CO.                  371          200           300          zoo
2-B-61     KOREA NULTISUN CO.                    350            0           200           100
2-B-62     SAN S6'BG  ATCH CO.                   812            a           400           400
2-5-63     ORIENT PRECISION CO.                  512          500           430           500
-8-C4     ORIENT PRECISION CO.                  544          500          U40            gO0
4-.85   - CAE VAEK ELECTRIC-.  ;                355          255           900          2U5
-B-B7     SOE afe IND. CO.                      830          600           450           g00
a-es    BONGSUNG COU  IND. CO.                 828            0           450           200
B-89     KUKJE PHARA IND. CO.                  842            0           300           200
-9-70    HANALL PEARX CO.                      189           113           I50          100
Grand-Total                55.792       67.622        23,691        47.687



- 42 -
Pacs I d 2
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENW PROJWr
(LOAN 2473K0)
TaIlm 4  DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
Cl)  1I   of hoj}a        Aine by tadustry SMr
!amny Sector                      A*.offroCc
IJflt7 / H&tLL                                       24                     1.0M.563.0&
fl.acU     I  0 1tieL                                28                   LJ3.,35LOZ
cbL / oQr                                            37                    1 520.n
TocAL                               89                     45.0i0.436.79
(2)  ler of ftojacts  g Asat by Projet Tpe
a3&0   Tn                    1 so. of Projects                     Amount
P7urc a1     a R  D equicsa                           8                     3.662.715.22
a A 0                                                49                    22.012.488.2
ZSz@,C of imscfl pn oen                               7                     2.9S3.821.91
Cic1a ciamt of now pr tc:                             7                     2.6S.80A.&7
Tloiogry  wort                                       18                     13.M.606.91
ToeAL                                89                    45.040.436.79
(3)  N_be  of Projet ad Amont by Comway Stm.
Cominy Sue                       Ito. of  Projecft                A ____________t __
LiTii                                                                      27. n.049.2
S_1 a Kuitls                                         42                     17.869.387.37
Tat"l                                89                    45.040.436.79
(4)   _ii of Project. an Amoue by fi.auaslze Inawc
[_ComvinttouL LOW   Zne9                  &I 314,060.436.79                                       1
S)  1        of Projec  md Aom.t by Subloan Sixe
5.4mm  S_ze                       No. of projewt                   An_
A 5bl.=                                              27                     29.n7.962.93
a S.bi.m                                             62                     l5.W.73.85
Toal                                48.040.436.79



- 43 -
Pm 2 of 2.
(6)  fber of Pw.j.s aed A.m  by Ragi
3agN Mo. of Ftoja                                              A
Z,uq4L                                             31                     465.T,4
It,sw$                                              19                   16021.83.77
Kym4k                                               3                       70.02
Pm.                                                 S                     1.51S.Os3.17
Tas                                                 3                       ?U.M.76
CIho&4                                             S3                      m1,SO.32
Total                              89                    0.8.436.79



Page 1 of 2
- 44 _
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 4.3:  SELECTED EXAMPLES OF KTDC SUPPORTED SUBPROJECTS
1.  (1)  Company Name      Nae-Wae  Electric  Co.,  Ltd.
(2) Project Name : Development of Reminder IC
(3) Type and Amount of KTDC Financing : Conventional Loan (U$255 Thou.,
W300Nil.)
(4)  Brief Discription  of the Project
The project is a kind of ASIC (Application Specific IC) named as
"Reminder IC", which can store sound information and repeat that
information  if  requested.   This  IC  which  consists  of  AID,  D/A
converters,  memory  unit   and  control  unit  is  essential  to  the
manufacturing of  auto-answering   telephone  set,  language  training
equipment,  cassette  recorder   and  toys,  etc.    KTDC  provided  a
comprehensive   s-pport  for  the   growth  of  the  company  , which
encompassed managerial and financial consultation even including the
ground work for going public.
2.  (1)  Company Name  : Sung Moon Electronics Co., LTD.
(2) Project Name : Localization of thin metallized film for capacitor
(3) Type and Amount of KYDC Financing : Conventional Loan(U$ 1,018 Thou.)
(4)  Brief Description of the Project
KTDC  financed   technology  development  projects  from  start-up  to
cowercialization  stage for the company.  Among them, Metallized fils



45 -                          Egge 2 of 2
is made through the process of putting a super-thin membranous metal
on the ordinary film under a vacuum condition. Special know-how in
the operation and treatment is required for this high quality product.
Metallized film is one of the essential materials for capacitors.
comprising 35% of  the total material  costs of these  items.   Until
now, metallized film has been imported from Japan or West Germany, and
local capacitor makers faced a difficulty in securing a stable supply
of the product.   Though the localization of metallized film, domestic
capacitor makers can improve their international competitiveness, and
import substitution effect is expected.
3.  (1)  Company Name  : Kia Motors Corp.
(2)  Project Name  : Import  of  Technology  /  Technical  assistance  for
Engineering & Establishment of Automatic Conveying
System in Hetal Finishing Plant.
(3)  Type and Amount of KTDC Financing : Conventional Loan (U$ 689 Thou.)
(4)  Brief Description of the Project
KTDC has financed KIA MOTORS CORPORATION to build up a new painting
shop(Hetal  Finishing  Plant).    Kia  has   succesfully   established
automatic conveying system in metal finishing shop at Sohari Plant by
making all the process-painting, drying, rinsing, colling, test and
assembling.   Continuously, KIA has increased the productivity and the
quality of the product and has enhanced the technology in the field of
conveying system under the technical assistance of NAKANISHI in Japan.



- 46 -
Pf    1 of 2
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Tabie 4.4: KTDC INSTITUONAL PERFORMANCE
1.  Staff Training
a.  Overseas Training
.,                 I         i         r         
I 1984     1983       1986  1  1987       1988      1989
o Duration                  
- Lonq-term              i   3        2          3         2         -         1
- Short-term                 1        2          1         2         2         6
o Field
Fifncug WDeAcww           3         4         3         3         2         6
C l O~s~
- le 6op    u at             1        -          1         1         -         1
SM hsuss _
o Destination
v. S. A.                     4         2         2         i         _         2
- Europe                     _-                  -         -                   -
-Japan                       _        -          1         1         1         1
- South-East Asia            -         2         1         2         1         4
b.  Domestic Training
-18    j1985    1986            1987      1988      1989
(1)External Courses
(Short-term only)
o Finance & Investment:   -            -         -         1         6        12
o Capital Market             _-                            -         S         8
(KSTI)
o Marketing (IMZ)            _-                            -         2          1
o Planning                   _         _         _         2         2          2
& Administration
(KPC, FKZ ete)
oM I s                                             _                 2         6
(2)Graduate School             -        1          2         2         3         2
(31 OJT in Portpolto           -        -          2         2         9         6
companiLes
(4)New employed szaffs         -        -          -         -         6
Orientation
(S)Group Traininq              -         12                  52        70



- 47 -
2. The Use of Consultancy Services
Name of Consultant        Country of    Institute          Field  of      ODuration
Origin       Assigned          Activity    From       To
Frank S. Bayley               U.S.A.  Venture Capital  The Internation- 84.10.11
Invest            nal Strategy of   -  84.10.12
Venture Capital
Arthur C. Patterson           U.S.A.  Citicorp Venture
Capital Ltd.
George Hara                   U.S.A.  |Shotosa interna-
ltional Tokyo&CA
Y.S. Chang                    U.S.A.   sian Management The Review of   '85.3
Center Boston    Orginization         - '85.12
Univ.             and MIS
Y.H. Lee                      U.S.A.  _
K.N. Rao                      U.S.A.
William A. Ward               U.S.A.  Ir.stitute for    Appraisal          '87.5.11
Development       Technique           -'87.5.15
Programs
Paul Toal                     U.S.A.  New Product Dev.
Industrial Dev.
Authority of
Ireland



- 48 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
TabIl 4.5: KTDC FINANCED R&D PROJECTS PERFORMED BY PUBUC RESEARCH INSTITUTE
(Von Million)
Name of the Instituce    No. of Projects    Total Budget    Amounc of KTDC Financing
KAIST                       16                 6,324                  4.580
KIMM                        17                 4,999                  4,065
KRICT                        6                 4,937                  4,043
KIER                         4                   895                     720
KGTRI                        1                   654                     280
Total                   . _17.809                                       13,688
Abbreviations
KAIST      Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KIMN       Korea Institute of Machinery and Metals
KRX1T      Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology
KIER       Korea Institute oi Energy Resources
KGTRI      Korea Ginseng and Tobacco Researcn Insticute



- 49 -
SECONQ TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table S. 1: ESTIMATEO AND ACTUAL AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT (CURRENCY AND INSTRUMENT)
(Won Billion)
1984         1985         1966         1987         1988          1969    Toa84^S9
Est  Ae-aL  Er.  A=xL  Eec  A=AL EeC   Ae:UaL  EeC  AcCnL  Eec  AcG&1  Est   c~
.Aomma bms
CaWaUL L1                      35.1  35.0 '8.7  36.3  11.6   43.5  45.9   44.9  68.0  43.7  52.0  '.45  2613  247.9
rmui LOW                        0.9   0.6   0.9   1.8   1.5    1.9   1 7    1.0   1.8   1.6   2.6   0.0   9.4    6.9
GMW=blA &IhX                    0      1.5    0     1.2  0       2.9   0      2.8    0     1.4    0     3.    o      UJ
EmAit 9=w                       3.9   0.9    : 4   1.3   5.9    3.9  8.4    3.3  10.2  4'0   10.4  10.1  43.1   n.'4
S9bCo.                      3.9   2.3    L:    2.5   5.9    6.8  8.4    6.1  10.2   3.4  10.4  13.6  43.1   36.7
Total                    39.8  37.9   ".0  40.6  '.9.0   52.2  ;.0   52.0  60.0  50.7  65.0  38.1  313.8  291-'
Canmu Low                      15.2  18.7  16.9  20.8  18.4   12.2  20.0   I5.0  19.9  17.0  19.9  15.5  110.1   99.:
Gaiii"uL Lam                    0      0.0   0.2   0.0   0.4    0.0  0.4'   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.6              2.1    0.0
1 ^rAreLwa BIhX                 0      0.4    0     0.00          0.00        0.0    0     0.0    0     0.0    0      0.4
eqwcv Sw                        0     0.0    0.9   0.0   1.2    0.0   1.3   0.0   1.S   0.0   1.5   0.0   6.9   0.0
sjbml                       0     0.4   0.9   0.0   1.2    0.0  1.5    0.0   1.8   0.0   1.5   0.0   6.9    0.4
OiUl                     1,5.1  19.1  18.0  tO.8  20.0   12.2  21.9   IS.0  22.C  17-0  =2.0  U5.5  119.1   99.6
.oCaL
C.vmmml  1.n                   50.3  53.7  :3.6  57.1  60.0   55.7  65.9   59.9  67.8  60.7  71.8  60.  371.4  347.1
GxdiLa 1                        0.9   0.6    L.:   ;.S   1.9    1.9  2.!.   1.0   2.2   I.S   3.3   0.0  11.5    6.9
ca'web1a amdo                   0      1.9    0     1.2  0       2.90         :.8    0     1.4   0      3.5   0      13.7
E*dcy Slm                       3.9   0.8   5.3   1.3   7.1    3.9  9.9    3.3  12.0   6.0  11.9  10.1   D.0  -2.4
51.cmJ                      3.8   2.7   5.3   2.5  7.1    6.8  9.9    6.1  12.0   5.4  11.9  13.6  53.0   37.1
TOr1.                    53.0  57.0  62.o  61.-  o       d 6f.4   7.9   67.3 ,.,  67.7  87.0  73.6  43.9   39!.1
%*Aw0m  - t                         -                                             -
rL  GSaTvX
GC.w22 uira La                 3D.5  26.7  36.9  38.8  60.2   .8.4  43.8   62.7  47.0  46.1  50.0  48.6  248.4  251.3
Ca,lcaUJ. L=n                   1.0   0.4   0.9   0.8   1.2    1.7  1.6    1.S   1.7,  1.7   2.3   0.1   8.7    6.5
B:mvurcLA lknit0            1.5   0       1.0   0      2.7  0       3.0   0      1.2  0       3.-9 0       U.-3
Ew.cY S1wi                      2.'.  0.4   4.1   1.0  5.,    4.7  7.1    3.1   9.3   5.2  10.3  10.5  33.3   24.9
Subr~ 2.4   1.9   4.1   2.0  5.1    7.4  7.1    6.1   9.3   6.4  10.3  14.4  38.3   38.2
ToaL                     32.9  29.0  41.9  41.6  66.5   57.5  52.5   50.6  58.0  54.2  62.6  63.1  295.4  196.0
Fobmp Q
Qwa==im  Lan                   16.2  15.7  18.5  17.8  16.7   14.6  18.3   12.6  19.3  16.4  19.9  16.6  1W.9   93.7
Lam                            0.21  0.0   0.1   0.0  0.3    0.0  0.4    0.0   0.4   0.0   0.6   0.0   2.0    0.0
8Ca    b1*8&.                   0      0.0   0      0.0   0      0.0  0       0.0   o      0.0   0       0.0   0      0.0
Eqwt Sum                        0     0.0   0.'   0.0   1.0    0.0  1.4    0.0   1.'   0.0   1.6   0.0   6.1    0.0
Subtcsl                     0     0.0   0.4   0.0   1.0    0.0  1.4    0.0   1.,   0.0   !.6   0.0   6.1    0.0
TOel                     16.4  '5.7  19.0  17.8  18.0   14.6  20.1   12.6  21.4  16.4   2.1  16.6  117.0   93.7
CaWCM~MmL IM                   46.7  42.4  55.4  56.6  36.9   63.0  62.1   55.3  66.3  62.5  69.9  65.2  357.3  345.0
nca.    L 1                     1.'   0.4   1.0   0.8   1.5    1.7  2.0    1.8   2.1       -7   2.9   0.1  10.7    6.5
EquLe
CoQDrMble BMU                   0      1.5  0       1.0 0    : .7 0            3.0  0       1.2  0       3.9 0        13.3
er sw_                          '.4   0.4   '.5    1.0  6.1    4.7  8.5    3.1  11.0   5.2  11.9  10.5  44.t.  24.9
1ibtaL                      2.4,  1.9   4.5   2.0  6.1    7.4  8.5    6.1  11.0   6.4  11.9  14.4  44.4   3S.2
Total                    50.3  44.7  f7.9  49.4  66.5   72.1  72.6   63.2  .9.4  70.6  84.7  79.7 412.4  389.7



- 50 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 5.2: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT (COLLATERAL COND!TIONS)
(Won Billion)
1984         198S         1986         1987         1988          1989     To.1(84-89'
(A   &:    h Est  AcaaL  Est  kumL  Est  AioaL  Eat  kIcL  Est  AcuaL  Est  Acta   Eat  kOJ&
4th Cclltem^                       n.a.   35.2  n.a. 37.6  n.a.  40.3  n.a.   47.1  n.a. 39.8  n.a.  33.7  n.a.   M.7
Widowt  CalUatL                    n.a.   18.5  n.a.  19.5  n.a.  15.4  n.a.   12.8  n.a.  20.9  n.a.  26.3  n.a.  113.4
Subucla                      i0.3   53.7  55.6  57.1  60.0  55.7  65.9   59.9  67.8 60.7  71.8  60.0  371.4  347.1
CadttLaL LcLro                          0.9    0.6   1.1  1.8   1.9   1.9   2.1    1.0   2.2  1.6   3.3   0.0  11.5    6.9
Equiqty Intts
QMo &nds
With Colaterg                      na.    1.8  n.a.  0.8  n.a.   2.3  n.a.    1.1  n.a.  0.7   n.a.   1.6  n.a.    8.3
Widot GoUatarai                    n.a.    0.1  n.a.  0.2  n.a.   0.5  n.a.    2.0  n.a.  0.!   n.a.   1.9  n.a.    5.4
SubotL                        n.a.    1.9  n.a.   1.0  n.a.   '.s  n.a.    3.1  n.a.   1.4  n.a.   3.5  n.a.   13.7
B*uiq Sww                             3.9    0.8   5.3  1.5   7.1   4.0   9.9    3.0  12.0  4.0  11.9  10.1  50.0  23.4
Totl                           3.8    2.7   e.3  2.5   7.1   6.8   9.9    6.1  12.0  5.4  11.9  13.6  5D.0   37.1
Grand-Tota                             55.0   57.0  62.0  61.4  69.0  64.4  77.9   67.0  82.0 67.7  87.0  73.6  432.9  391.1
No. of FroJec                          150    184   165  188   182             199    '10   210  222   232   278   1,136  1,.U
Av.. Fin. Mwjwmif:ct tIbn IgLL.in)     267    310   276  327  239    290   391    119   290  305   378   265    331    3D
( Prqnt(2) I
G2w0a  Lft
withi COllaw*i                     n.a.   61.8  n.a. 61.2  n.a.  62.6  n.a.   i0.3  n.a. 58.8  n.a.  45.8  n.a.   59.8
Wi?huzt CollatrvL                  n.a.   32.5  n.a. 31.8  n.a.  23.9  n.a.   19.1  n.a. 30.9   na.  35.7  n.a.   29.0
Subicg                        91.5   94.2  89.7  93.3  87.0  86.5  84.6   89.4  82.7 89.7  82.5  81.5  85.8   83.S
CamiLacnLI aen                         1.6    1.1   1.8  2.9   2.7   3.0   2.7    1.5   2.7  2.4   3.8   0.0   2.7    1.7
Equity iwavmat
bmomle  Bd
WLth CoJatemL                      n-a.    3.2  .a-8  1.3  n-a-   3.6  n-a-    1.6  n0a.  1.0  n0a.   2.2   na.    2.1
Widowt Cwlateu                     n.a.    0.2  n.a.  0.3  n.a.   0.8  n.a.   '3.0  n.a.   1.0  n..   2.6   n a.    1.4
Subtcll                       n.a.    3.3  n.a.   1.6  n.a.   4.3  n.a.    4.6  n.a.  2.0  n0a.   4.8  n.a.    3.5
E4q    3m                            n.a.    1.4  n.a.  2.4  n.a.   6.2  n.a.    4.5  n.a.  5.9   na.  13.7  n.a.    6.0
Toal                           -.9    4.7   8.5  4.1  10.3  10.6  12.7    9.1  14.6  7.9  13.7  18.5  11.5    9.5
Grad Total                             :00.0  lD.0  10.0 10D.0  IOD.0 10D.0  10.0  1(7.0  10D.0 10D.0  100.0 103.0  102.0  100.0
With Collatezi                     n.a.   64.9  n.a. 62.5  n.a.  66.1  n.a.   71.9  n.a. 59.8   n.a.  48.0  n.a.   61.9
Widou  Co1laemaL                   n.a.   '5.1   n.a. 37.5  n.a.  33.9  n.a.   29.1  n.a. 40.2  n.a.  52.0  n.a.   39.1



- 51 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 5.3: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL RESOURCE MOBIUZATION 1984- 1989L
(Won Million)
Deemb*r 31                               1984         1983         1986         198?         1988        1969    Tose(M4-89)
Es. AceLL  Est. kAml  ESt. A=&L  Fat. Auml  Est. Acml  Fa. &AL  Et. Ac=km
2,000 2.0D  3.000 4,OM    4,000 2.,        0  2.=      0 (3.699)     0   -   9*=   6,301
Privue                           2.aO    6.X5 6.3D    643   5.CC  6.4W  5*=0       0 5.G   6.0W   3-*M  2,4W 00 30 21.697
m6betal                          4.D   8.155 9.3m  4.643    9.M  S.-tM   %,OM  2.=  5.QD  2.:W   3.OC  2,4D 35M0 27.998
r|_enmm                          2.O    2.OMD 18.    5.C0   laODIO.OOD      0M.          0 27.=        0 35.M 3o.0D 79,O
Debmwmm  ib                      19.OD 30.=  9.3m  11.m        0 10o.       0     033.0  3D.UD  14.250 15.l   W9.7  96.1
od                                   0      0    0      0       0     0      0    0    0   960         0   678     0  1,6i2
21.OOD 32.m  27.5M 16.0M    19.C000.00      0   .A  38.00S7.950  14.2S1 30.678118.701765.68
Im                                 [16.439 15.996 19.0;9 18.60   18.0B 12.1M1 W3.0  12.432 21.396 15.251  22.110 12445 UW-Wa8L.53s
B                                      0     0     0    0        0     0     0       0     027.2        0      0     027.o
Grai Toal                             41.439 56.151 55.84939.247   45.0B40.SDI 2.AB 34.438 64.396 W2.63  39.30 O.MVI.iM3i8.M
'L  Di_bzuin b
/b   Befcc dilcaftt



- 52' -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DVLPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-K0)
Taft 5.4: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL FINANCIAL INDICATORS 196419I
Yeers ending Decmber 31                  1984             1905           198            197             1            19_
Ea.    kAuL   Ee.  kt=L    EW.  ACML   Est.  kt              Eat. kCmL. Fat. ,C.L
-  at J- JAte
1. Gr_m1         /.                   11.76   11.43   10.29  13.97   13.98  13.31    16.66  12    11.5  U1       12.0  11.6
2. Fim=aL Eq        /b                 9.63    9.13   9.80  10.41    9.7   10.3      9.43   9.67    7.1    7.7    8.6   6.0
3. Grm Sp     (1-2)                    2.13    2.30   0.49   3.56    4.27   2.n      7.23   3.17   4.4    3.7    3.4   5.6
4. MA .lsu        Eq:am                4.34    1.85    3.34   1.34    3.19   1.3     3.3   1.3    1.3    1.5    0.9   1.7
5. Pfrm   frLo                         n..    0.44    n.a.   0.48    n.a.   0.02     n.e   0.10    0.3    0.2    0.1   0.2
6. Nt hcons bIo    T                  -2.78    o.a5   03.29   1.22   0.72   1.       3.72   1.46    2.2    2.1    1.6   2.6
Ntt _a        Z oSf Avtmp Not kkrth      13-3    0.20  -17.07   5.53    2.55   4.64    11.S7   5.73    6.3    8.7    5.1   U.0
-pd 0n Avup IC CrWataL Lam
IaAvq.LC Cai1um   Iau(Z) /e               n..   14.C6   n.   14.34    n..  13.5         ne   13.70   1245   IMP    a.a  11.6
Fin. ExpqmWAvgA.C Lw#-mu Dt(Z)  t         nD.e   11.25    n.a.  13.28    n.e.  12.81    na.  12.54   8.75   10.49    a.e   8.8
*Wd (S)                                   na..    2.81    n.e   1.06    n..   1.04      n.e   1.16   3.3    2.        n.e   2.8
Spam: an I     mgEC Carwni: amik
WaWAvg. EC   G      Imv aui LcmS(Z)       na.   15.94    n.s.  16.64    n.e.  14.52    n.e  12.96   11.40   10.49    *w    MO
Fftaq ibig.0   b=*wqs(Z)                  n.e   12.69    n.   12.49    na.  13.67       ne   11.68   9.9D    8.93    A.e  8.
Sju M(Z)                                  n.e    3.25   na..   4.14    na..   0.1       n.    1.30    1.3D   1.        e    0.74
0a Avg. Tlbw CaI _ionam  1n
LIau.tAn- Totl Cm,U.aS Lm*)   I           5.72   14.35  15.67  15.33   15.65  14412    154.5  13.41   11-V    U..7!   14.4S  10.90
FInqmi/bAvg. local. Zwe-tim W()           12.45   11.69   12.16  13.0   12.80  13416    12.75  12.19    9.22    9.92   12.5   8.69
sir  (Z)                                  3.27    3.05    3.51   2.20    2.85   0.96    2.91   1.      2.53    1.*3    1.91   2.2
PlO 85K   W   V10  DBM    S    Q GE:
kvep LC CamaaI   KIl)                     n.e   -0.67    n.a.  -2.51    na..  -1.53     n.e  -1.16    2.32   1.0      na..  0.0
Aviq KE Caa.L LMI IZ)                     na.   -o.n    n..   0.59    na.   0.53        n..   1.07    1.D    1.49    n.e.   0.0
Avmqa Total CaGm _mL l=SZ)                n..   -0.60    n.e.  -1.36    n.e.  -0.70     n.e  -0.25    1.90    1.2D   n0e    0.0
T1bcl 1bbc/fuiey hAia(e)                   3.4    4.2    4.2   4.7    4.1   4.6         3.6   4.1    3.7    4.1    3.7   3.9
two-am  DfmiPd    t btums_)               3.4    4.0    4.2    4.5    3.8   3.8         3.4   2.3    3.1    33        3.5    34
omuc Astio(cusis)                          n.a.   15.4    n.e   9.4    n.a.   1.0       na.   0.3    n.e   2.9        G.e  4.3
PtUNU/T     (dSL(z)                       n.a.    1.0    na..   1.0      na.   0.7      n.e   0.6    n.e    0.6    DA.   0.4
/a   Tocal Jam    rarp Er l_ 1g w.Zani Cam
'lb,         FFlE u ti:man                d
/C    tte Lwm        Udiim a mum  Umofd aa dr



- 53 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 5.5: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENTS 1984-1989
(Won Million)
1984            1985             1986             1987             1988           1989
Years endin2 December 31
Est  Actual   Est  Actual  Est   Actual  Est   Actual   Est  Actual   Est  Actu
Income
Income on Conventional Loans
Interesc/commitment fees            8.332    5.677   13.014  10.749  20.049  17.076   22.154  19.259 23.116    18,601   24.37 18.601
GOK's interest rate support             0    1.869        0   3.293        0   2,279        0   2,394       0     1.035       0       0
Subtotal                      8.332     .566   13.014  14.042  20.049  19.355  2Z.154  21.653  23.116    19,636   24,357 18.601
Income on Conditional Loans
Royalty                                 9        16     144      17,4    362      03      647     25  1,129        841    1.489    869
GOK's support                           0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0         0       0       C
Subtotal                          9        16     144      :,4     362     33       647     285  1.129       841    1.489    869
Income on Equity Investment
Intuast == anonv ertble bcmds    55  '   130            116      S1  ;93        480   27n        831    363       839      457    823
Diviaz an equLty  w es                  0        0        5       1       30       7      117      43    353        174     781    319
Ctl gin an A       csf W,y-        I    0        0        0       0       0        0        0       1    392         36    3,302    645
Subtotal                         55       13)     121     32      213      487      392     875  1.t      1,049    4,560  1.787
Income on Factoring                        o         0       0        0       0       0        0       10      0       32         0  1.069
Inmt 1zm  on liquid hoIns              1,536     1.672   2.193   3.M8   4,018   3.962    4.351   3.7,27  3,874    4,36    3.925  3.630
Fign eng   e           n    pus            0        63       0    (376)       0    (529)       0    (441)      0      (360)       0   (140
1.   tnet)
Other income (net0                         0        92       0       83       0       71       0      10       0       223        0    36C
Total Income                  9.932     9.519  15.17i   18.093  21.059  23.554   27.664  26.259 25.848    25.868   30.921 26.176
Expenses
Financial expenses                     7,775      ,706  11.570  12,727  15.157  18.173   16.590  19,391 17,625    16.80    21,153 14.876
Depreciation and amortization            943       878   1.177   1.181      99)   1,166    1.044      902  1,032       468    1.165    381
Administration expenses                 1.35    1,533   1,656   1.,91   1,821   2,326    2.044   2,712  2.3          3,7    2.624  3.844
provision for losses                      427      364     683      664     397       32     363      209    357       528      371    58Y
Write-off of bad debts                      0        0       0      130    362         0      382       0   1.071        0    163        C
Total Expenses                 10.630     9,481   l4.S84  16.473  18.719  21,697   20.33  23.214 22.39    21.8   26.782 19.6d
Net Income Before Tax                       .717j       38       7    1.63)  2,;60    1.857    3.:S1   3.045  3.510      4,760   4       6.4w)
Taxes                                           0        3       0      26       49     362    1.313      814 1.404        937  1.66       854
Net Income After Tax                        (717)       35     587   1.3$0   1.691    1.495    1.969   2.231  2.105      3.8Z3   2.483  5.636



- 54 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473.KO)
Table 5.6: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL BALANCE SHEETS 1984-1989
(Won Millon)
1984             1965            1986W           1987             1966           1989
Years ending December 31
Est.  Actual   Est. Actual   Est. Actual  Est.  Actual   Est. Actual   Est. Actual
Assets
Cash ad iUi 1dinp                    11,377   32.621   25.179  28.437   41.786  28.257   30.732  18.252  33,83  33M.7    31l.35   27.1U3
hut    ravab1a                        1,678    1.6S7    3,391   2,424    4,875   3,387    7,245   3.563   9.3D1  3.459 11.855   4.121
O2wamoawislo o                       73.152   68.366  111,.07 114,514  135,837 157,354  152.831 163.375 163.999 164.752 173.451  172,238
CadimLa    1a                         2.941    2.332    3,417   2.621    4,150   3,923   5,197   4.727   6,429  5,107  8,235   4,00
fqudty mn
Gvwrule  bsmvs                         0    1.748        0   2.376        0   4,657       0   6,891       0  7.587       0  11,632
tyi r                              2.555      611    6.994   1.698   13,061   6.377   20,655   8,941  3S.119 12.912 38.516  20,25
Toeal                              2.555    2.35     6.994   4,074   13.061  11,074   20.655  15.832  30.119 20,499 38.516  31,837
Faraing                                   0       0        0       0        0       0        0     577       0  4,054       0 10.186
Net fxas                                264       98     32       273      298    295      315    276    33M    837    259   1.70M
Net fnmt-ai fe/defaind  duzMR         2.632    1,06    2,365     963    1,742     710     884     484   2,544    470  2 S44    591
Odrwas                                1.931  9,143    1,931   2.372    1,931   2.707    1,931   3,143   1,931  6,1Q2  1.931  15,444
Total Aes                               96,53    110.66,.  .54 585 155.678  203.337 207,667  219.792 210,229 248,3S2 239,C07 26830  267.283
1Jucia aw EauLat,
On JiaMMltl
at p            o debt                0        0        0       0        0  26,724        0  68,137      0 28,073       0  11,399
Or  cozont J4abites                2.212    2,231    3.760   3,292    5.904   4,017    7,789   4,319  10.230  7,760 13.012  15,350
Total                              2.212    2.231    3,760   3.292    5,904  3D,741    7,789  72.456  10,Z  35,833 13,012  26,749
-   debt
B21-VSw     m fz  esn *            6.0M    6,OO   24,Mo  11.020   41.680   21.2OM   41,450  40,8M   40.950 67,450 40,250  81,250
DDbmacm                           42.915   53.724   52.415  65,164   52.415  75.756   42.215  57,323  44,915 50,991 49,165  45,=
Odthe  s                               0        0        0       0        0       0        0      0       0    960       0   1,638
BUT~WW5 fun MM0                   28.724   26,937   47.773  48.304   65,811  69,538   83.675  66.145 100.623 63.861 O1,-7    67,543
Subtal (pwm)                      77,639  86.661  124.188 124.468  160,W5 166.294  167.50 164.268 186.488 183.262 198.117  195,431
L   earunt potc                        0        0        0       0        0  26.724        0  68.137      0 26.073      0   11,399
Subwt&L (r't)                     77.639  86,661  124,188 124.468  160,026 139,50  167,540  96.131 186.486 155,19 198.117  184=2
Se eI 14bJ                              201      233      273    378       351    515       438    620      533    861    633   1.42
Total Labiti                         80.053   89.175  12.2,21 13.138  166.281 170.856  175,767 1669.37 197,251 191 AD211.767 212,Z13
luty
Pat-i  capital                     18,679   22.84   27.979  27.477   36.979  35.20    41.979  37,X2  46.979 39.60  49,979  42.GM
Retained eMrUi                     (2.202)  (1.347)  (1.615)    63       77   1.639    2,045   3,837   4.151   7,522  6.635  13.,08
Total FquY                           16.477   21.487   26.364  27.540   37.056  36.841   44.074  41.0=   41.130 47,124 56.614  55,.70
Total LiabJcd  sn  Equty                96.530  110.662  154.585 155.678  203.337 237.667  217.792 210.229 248.382 239.C07 268.30 267,28



.- 55 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473__0)
Table 5.7: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS 1984.1989
(Won Million)
194           19MS          1986           1967        1968         1969     T.t(84 89)
Yenar andla; D.c.ud.r 31
tXC. k  aL  Et. AMOL  Fsc. AknaL  Eat. ACaaL  EC.  cmmL  Fic. Ama   Far. howuL
Not 1=                                 (f17)    35   587  1.360  1.691  1.495  1.969  2.=5  2.109  3.823  2,4.3 5.636  S.139 14.
Qmn            am  --cumm               943   8;8  1.177   .18      950  1.16  1,054   gm   1.0e2    893  1.10    572  6A4M   5.3.
Pwvan  6m                               427   3%    483    64'   389    32   353    MD   357    SM           371     0  2=    1,7r
Pvmg   6w wp1oa_     w         iw..      65 s  169      7    96    79    iZ    87   267    95    249    1    19'6    SM   1.51'
mm(m(ew                                0    (63)      0   376      0    529     0 141         0   (360)     0   (6B)      0    85
*tm f of bsd inbcm                        0      0       0   I3D   362       0    3S2     0  1.071      0  1.663     0  3478    13
L         ) Qn 1m at8 1!        c         0    (12)      0    (1)    0       1     0      2      0    (41)     0    (7)      0    (S
ZIL cam cGwmnm                          718  1371  2319  3.786  3.511  3,375  3.915  4,as2  4.711  5.092  5.77 6.719  MAI 243.
casvum                              2.=  2.=  3.=  4,M 4.=  2.=    0 2.=    0    0    0   0 9.= 10M
Prime                               2.=   6.15  6.m       643  5.M   5.725  5.a0       0  5.=   2.40D  3,0  2.0 26.m  17,43
Subma                               4.=  8a..55  9.m   4.643  9.00D  7.725  5.2,=   2.=   5.=   2AW   3.=  2.5   35.3  27V4X
GouTMc                              2.=   2.C  18.=   5.M  18.0  WO.=            0    .D=     0 27.0         0 15.3W  MZ=  79.m
sm   /I                            194D 2.91m   9.D  10.7          0 W0.=        0     0 M.=   30.=  14.2D 15.(  8D.7  0WAY1
no  &a o                           16.4WA   1.996 19.0(9 18.6D  M.=  12.101 20.0N  12.43 21%39  43.=3  32.UD MM81  l17.1M5 W.12
Subtam.L                           37.439 47187 46.549 34.461 36.4  32.1 M.A  32.433 59,365 1.23   36.A2AZS =5A                .2X
C aim_ uL IC"                       5.8   5.554 17.14 12.M  31.W  3YOM  '.913 77,11  54.915 85.761 60.o16OD2= .992 27.4
ca-Uin1. lo                           276   155   525   465    7        31    952   798   935  1.109  1.X  1.077  4.496  3.9
CaiWO.h1*                               0     52     0    213      0   461       0   691      0  1,574       0 1.,2       o  A.
qigcvWince                            0      0      0      0      0      2      0    3 I196        229 1.651   Mg  LW6 M
Sub9                                6.035  5.761 17.670 12.931 32J1  35.230  45.W5 78.50  56.16 a5.670  63M163.56  =21.35 
hZimme m CE t  iMa14m                   .6  1.187  t.%8  1.061  2.146   725  L.S         350  2.441  2.429   2.782   616  12U0    6.4C
TOt&L Sal 5s                          49.510 63.761 77.395 56.57 83.91 79.13D 76.04117.692 L27.665 19.8.W  U10.8 U6A .424 632
Ca~~ulUaUlam            f6.63D 42.353 55.401 S5.61  56.851 62,974 62.079 SD.sd  66.5 93.491 59.M  6953557.1054095=
,catUauL imu                        1.213   414  1.012   770  1.54   1.775  2.D   1.638  2.192  1.669  2.552   17  10.57  63W
CauetLW* bom                            0  1.5m       0   9gm      0  2.75D      0  3.263     0  2.274       0 5.930       0 16.657
squr  , -                           2.359   413  4.DD  1,0   6.190  4.66   8.510  2,6 10.95D  4.2209  11.90D 7.8W  64.649 2D.P0
Faccan                                  0     0       0     0       0     0      056          0  3.53        0 6.25       0 1.3U
cubmA                              50.D2 [A.690 60.943 59s360 64.57 72R35 n2.9 .596 7W79,0 109.193 84A69D OPA         4U.G N9X7
atmw   at Qf0                                    0      0      0    MD  5,59  12.574 37,   40.1..8 74.12  24.731 3X 2  77.95314*51
F n c-ad fewdefn   dIw                 1.4S0   739    863   42      3U    227    125      2  2.670    6C   1.05   Sm   6.S   2.30
ractumme                                  Ss ftxod assets  %  34  65    m  71   161  79    84    81    672      0 1.        360  2.243
lztin 21 21   ucmuse                     636   665  1.713   757  1.D6    975  2=D  18 D  1.955    147  2.655          0 1D3  2.704
Otiw   m at fim (n'                        0   623       0    295     0   218       0   947      0   2.P3       014.7         0 UAI2
Total U1U                             523646.735 63&A461.066  66.6S4 79,310 S7,7127.697U26,57 tuj      Slo2lU.171u n.6700iJAi 1G31,2
ma tDnwD Ie u                            (2,S6)lU.al1  3.80  (4.184) 16.607  (160)X1.095U10.5) 3.098  16.061 (2.22!1.426) U7.3  127



- 56 -
SECOND TECINOLOGY DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table S.8: ANALYSIS OF CONVENTIONAL LOANS IN ARREARS 1984-198
(Won Mlillon)
*  re#                     194          1965         1966         1987         19          1989
_et C             L 1 in Ams
1N d oinam snudw6                                 .4            6            6           22           8            9
- m I of     3m                                 (l.a)        (1.22)       (1.01)       (3JO)        (1.11)      (1.0)
modf low SRmVW6                                    4            2            5            5            7           4
- "    S of ml la"                              (1M)         (0.41)       (0o)         (0.8)        (0.97)      (0.46)
_i1.w of3nA                                        a 8          8            11           2           15           13
- m S of ml Iwo                                 (1O)         (1.62)       (1.92)       (4.3)        (2.9)       (1.D)
TomI    w of 1mm in pw-om                           3B            92          574          55           79          as
f1m1Affma  b, kyin
Total, pimips a&m                              6s.=        115.61       11.4%6       16".3        M9           W.=
MaOp1 aUMM by w_n    sd  6 m                                   372         233         1.29          4          1.116
- _ S of   al pr9hd* am q                       (0.04)       (0.2)        (0.16)       (O.J)        (0.3)       (0.71)
pkl1p. dfind by urn    w 1   du                  735          587           325.7                                 62am
- ta  of ml iuiaop  aaFLt                       (1.-0)       (0.51)       (0.21)       (0.3)        (1.44)      (O.M)
T1. PA1m1    -     by Aams                       762          99            m          1.6          3.2         1.97
- a1  mL PiUXPL a                               (.1)         (0.OM)       (0.X)       (1.01)       (s.6)       (1.51)
n=     ww  6  _                                    4           46           53           197          67         li
-   I  of Plad     wAw                          (OM)         (0.0)        (OM)         (0.12)       (OA)        (0.0)
hus  w 6                                         240          234           176    W                 262          10
- a I of pin*" oma,                             (0.3)        (0M)         (0.U)        (0.U1)       (042)       (0.)
TamLe                                            244           2 D          Zs"a                     3w           as
-     a S   Pit1     4aim t                     (0M)         (0.31)       (0.14)       (0.?)        (0.17)      (0.13)
hum  m acbqgini at of 
-tAdsL                                         89           243                                   442          327
- litl                                        65           96           98           55           OD          U
glSL                                         l,           341                                                _4&=  
A-M  fbUAq dm iwkq yr
-h  PUi                                      53,7        12.099       27.=,        77.112       49*.M        46.6
-  inin                                      5.101        9.97         16.1W6      18.443   U 4.4D0          14.065
Zm L1                                                  AM            43.416         m.7
eW- -d w*p
- ftiYL                                      5.1         12.W02       31.1         76.8        41.9.         48.7
-   hamu                                     5.01n        9.957        9.137       18.418       1437         14.131
Arm at Ad of pm
-    k                                         24:N    2pD 243                        662          3Z           2N
98           98           5O eD                    13           47
IMi.                                         Ala                                    la                        AL
-umm   w Lai                                 96.9         98.3         99.3         99.5         99.          99.6
Ateum a a                                do : , a rr  1



- 57 -
Pae- 1 of 2
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 24734K0)
Table 6: KTOC's SHAREHOLDING, ENDING 1989
(Won Millon)
Asounr              Porcentae
GovemfAnt                                                      9,301.3                 22.1
1D3                                                            3.698.7                  8.8
Yukonsg                                                        7000.0                  16.7
Lucky                                                          2,852.9                  6.8
Hundal                                                         2,842.9                  6.8
Sasaung                                                        2,842.9                  6.8
Kia                                                            1,000.0                  2.4
Coomrctal genk                                                   760.6                   1.8
Sangu$g                                                          450.1                   1.0
Dam.Ao                                                           405.0                   1.0
Hyosung Sung                                                     284.7                  0.9
Others (163 sharehdolders)                                     5,663.1                  13.5
ADS                                                            2,400.0                   5.7
DMO                                                            2,400.0                   5.7
Total                                                42,002.3                100.0
_m
Presen Status of ITDC Privatization
The Governote has announced its intention to sell its 15. I interest in 1990, the remaining
7S by i992.



- 58 -
Pase 2 of 2
Others
1.   There is no failed project under the Second Bank Loan.
2.   A study was carried out by Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology (KAIST) in 1986 to analyze the effect of KTDC's financing
activities from 1981-1985.
KAIST is analyzing the effect of KTDC's financing activities from
1981-1989. KTDC will inform the Bank of the result as soon as it is
completed.



Page 1 of 3
SEC ND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section           Activity                                           Remarks
Loan Agreement - KTDC:
2.02 (a)      (i)  Relend loan proceeds to finance 100l   of         Complied
the foreign currency cost of imported goods
and services or 601 of domestic items and
that no withdrawal shall be made unless it
complies with provisions of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement;
(ii) Relend loan proceeds to meet 1001 of             Complied
consulting services, training materials and
staff training under Part B of the Project
provided no amounts shall be withdrawn in
excess of $300,000 except as Bank may
otherwise agree.
2.02 (b)      Maintain a special acco4nt in dollars on terms         Complied
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and in
accordance with Section 3 of the Agreement.
2.03 (a)      Withdrawals shall be on the basis of subloans          Complied
approved by the Bank or if a free-limit subloan
one for which Bank has authorized withdrawals.
2.03 (c)      No withdrawals shall be tade before the date           Complied
of the Agreement, except expenditures not
exceeding $200,000 after 8/1/84 or
for subloans approved 90 days prior to Bank's
receipt of subloan application
2.03 (d)      No subloan shall exceed $1.5 million and no            Complied
subproject shall be eligible to receive more
than $5.0 million.
2.03 (c)      Applications shall be presented to the Bank on         Complied
or before 6/30/87.
2.10 (c)      Except otherwise agreed, KTDC shall charge         Not Complied
interest on subloans made as Conventional         from 1985489
Loans which will provide KTDC with a spread
of at least 2-1/2X.
3.06          KTDC shall ensure that maximum outstanding             Complied
loans and equity in a single entity shall not
exceed 7X of KTDC's long term portfolio or
W4.2 billion whichever is higher.
4.01 (a)      KTDC shall maintain adequate procedures and            Complied



- 60 -                       Page 2 of 3
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Sectlon            Activity                                           Remarks
Loan Agreement - KTDC:t(ontinued)
records and reflect operations and financLal
condition, including expenditures under statement
of e.xpenditures in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
4.01 (b)      KTDC shall:
(i)  Have its accounts and financial statements        Complied
audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank;
(ii) Furnish the Bank, as soon as available            Complied
but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each year: certified
copies of the financial statements as
audited; and the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
4.04          KTDC shall take all necessary action to increase    Complied
its authorized capital to W37 billion on or
before 12/31/84.
4.05           Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,         Not Complied
KTDC shall enter into satisfactory arrange-        only W 12.6B
ments with Borrowers and prospective share-        was raised
holders whereby an additional amount on no
less than W13.3 billion will be paid into
capital on or before 12/31/86.
4.06           Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, KTDC         Complied
shall maintain at all times a debt/equity ratio
of no greater than five times the consolidated
capital and surplus of KTDC and its subsidiaries.



- 61 -                     Pate 3 of 3
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section           Activity                                          Remarks
Guarantee Agreement - Government:
3.04          Government and the Bank shall exchange views          Complied
on the Government's industrial technology develop-
ment policies to identify major issues or areas
of special study or action.
3.05 (a)      Government shall permit KTDC to increase its          Complied
authorized capital to no less than W37 billion
with amendments to KTDC's Act, Decree and By-laws
on or before 12/31/84.
3.05 (b)      Government shall make available to KTDC no less       Complied
than W3 billion on or before 12/31/85 by way
of further subscription to KTDC's paid-in
capital.
3.05 (c)      Government shall provide KTDC by way of         Not Compliedl/
loans an aggregate amount of up to W20r
billion on or before 12/31/85.
3.06 (d)      Government shall provide a guarantee for KTDC's       Complied
debentures in an aggregate amount of W30 billion
on or before 12/31/85.
3.06 (e)      Government shall provide KTDC additional funds        Complied
to cover losses suffered by KTDC on account of
Conditional Loans made.
IL/    Actual government loans contributed for the period was only W7
billion. However, the Government provided an additional W10
billion in 1986 and W20 billion in 1987 for a total of W37
billion for the project period.



SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 8.1: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
STAFF INPUTS
Stage of
Project Cycle         FY83     FY84     FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89           FY90    FY91   TOTAL
Preparation            5.3       9.5        -        -        -        -        -         -        -      14.8
Appraisal                -      25.6      6.7        -        -        -         -        -        -      32.3
Negotiations             -        -       5.7        -        -        -         -        -        -       5.7
Lending Operations       -       9.9      5.9        -        -        -        -         -        -      15.8
Supervision              -        -       3.5      6.3      16.3      5.8      1.2      0.1        -      33.2
Completion               -        -         -       1.3       -        -         -      0.6       1.3      3.2
Administration           -        -       0.1      1.4       0.9       -         -        -        -       2.4
TOTAL                5.3      45.0     21.9      9.0     17.2       5.8      1.2      0.7      1.3    107.4



- 63 -
SECOND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2473-KO)
Table 8.2: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
MISSIONS
Thmough Appraisal:    5/833         4          I  lndustrial Economics,  Ilnterest tate spread, I
--ectronlcs 8 Light  ICapital structure of KrDC, 
Industries          IFree limit on subloan
Retrocative financing &
Bank lending.
9/83          3      16 Industrial Economics
Appraisal through     12183         5       21 Financlal Policy      Loan terms, KTDC debt
Board Approval                                 Industrial Economics    structure, Interest rate,
Development Banking   SMIS, Alternative financla
Instruments & Science & tec
nology studies.
Supervision:
Mission 1            3/85           1     NA Industrial Economics              _
Mission 2            11/85          2       5 Telecommunications&              -
Electronics Speciallsts
Mission 3            5/86           2       3 Telecommunications&              -
ilectronics Specialists
Industrlal Economist            _
Mission 4            10/86        NA        I Industrial Economist    Loan Implementation, IFC
contribution, new debenture
issues, Future Bank funding
of ETRI
Mission 5            11/86          2       2 Industrlal Economist    Inadequate spreads.
Cost of Bank funds &
iFC Involvement.
MIsslon 6            5/87    |      1 |     2 |Industrial Economist   |I-



