RP95
March 2002
Resettlement Policy Framework
for the
Mitigation of Social Impacts
of the
Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) Project
entitled
Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the
Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
29 March 2002
the World Bank
Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement Team



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework
Table of Contents
Table of Contents .........................................................I
List of Acronyms .......................................................3
1.   General Background ........................................................4
1.1.    Description of Project: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the
Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem ........................................................4
1.2.    Rationale for Preparation of the Resettlement Framework .................................6
1.3.    Objectives of the Resettlement Framework ........................................................6
1.4.    Adverse Social Impacts .........................................................7
2.   Institutional Framework ........................................................9
2.1.    Project Organisational Framework .............................. ...........................9
2.2.    Resettlement Planning Principles and Process .................................................  10
3.   Legal Framework for Compensation                    ................................. .  11
3.1.    Compensation Laws ........................................................ I 1
3.2.    LCBC Strategy for Expropriation and Compensation ...................................... 11
3.3.    World Bank Procedures for Resettlement/Rehabilitation (OP 4.12) .........      ....... 13
4.   Organisational Procedures ............         ............................................ 14
4.1.    Implementation Process ....................................................... 14
4.2.    Grievance Redress Mechanism ........................................................  14
4.3.    Arrangements for Funding .......................................................   14
5.   Operational Procedures ...........         .............................................. 15
5.1.    Institutional Framework .......................................................    15
5.2.    Project Launching ........................................................         15
5.3.    Project Implementation .......................................................     17
6.   Socio-Economic Background of PAPs ................................       .              18
6.1.    Identification of PAPs ........................................................    18
6.2.    Social Impacts of the LCBC ..................       ..................................... 18
7.   Methods of Valuing Affected Assets           ........................................................ 19
7.1.    Organizational Procedures for Delivery of Entitlements ................. ................. 19
7.2.    Method and Basis of Valuation ........................................................  19
7.3.    Compensation Procedures and Civil Work Schedule ....................................... 20
8.   Sources of Funding ......................................................... 22
9.   Consultation and Participation Process .          .......................................................  23
9.1. Data Collecting Phase .23
9.2. Planning Phase .23
9.3. Implementation Phase .24
9.4. Monitoring and Evaluation Phase .24
10.     Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements                 .      .      .25
10.1.     monitoring principles .................................. 25
10.2.     External Monitoring and Evaluation ..................................           25
11.     Annexes ....................................                                         26
Annex  1.1.    List of People contacted           ..                ................................ 26
Annex 11.2.     Outline of a Resettlement Plan ...............          ................... 27
1



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - List of Acronyms
Annex 11.3.   World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 .....................................  31
Annex 11.4.   Methods of Valuation for Structures, Land, Trees and other Assets .... 41
2



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - List of Acronyms
LIST OF ACRONYMS
APR                             Annual Project Review
BCSP                            Basin Committee for Strategic Planning
CPTF                            Country Project Task Forces
FAO                             Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN
GEF                             Global Environment Facility
IC                              Incremental Cost as defined by the GEF
KYB                             Komadougou-Yobe Basin
LCBC                            Lake Chad Basin Commission
LCB                             Lake Chad Basin
NGO                             Non-Governmental Organisation
NRM                             Natural Resource Management
PDF-A                           Project Development Facility of the GEF
PDF-B                           Project Development Facility of the GEF
PDF-C                           Project Development Facility of the GEF
OP                              GEF Operational Program
PMU                             Program Management Unit
PIR                             Project Implementation Review
PSC                             Project Steering Committee
PPER                            Project Performance and Evaluation Review
PTF                             Project Task Force
SAP                             GEF Strategic Action Program
STAP                            Science and Technical Advisory Panel of the GEF
TDA                             Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
TPR                             Tri-Partite Review
UN-DESA                         The Department of the United Nations Secretariat
for Economic and Social Affairs
UNDP                            United Nations Development Programme
UTNEP                           United Nations Environment Programme
UNOPS                           United Nations Office of Project Services
UNSO                            United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
WB                              The World Bank
3



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - General Background
1. GENERAL BACKGROUND
1.1. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT: REVERSAL OF LAND AND WATER DEGRADATION
TRENDS IN THE LAKE CHAD BASIN ECOSYSTEM
The project aims to address the problems of land and water degradation in the Lake Chad Basin,
which are:
* shrinking lake and climate change
Persistent drought has caused Lake Chad and its associated aquifers to shrink, with serious
consequences for the people dependent upon the lake and its environment.
* persistent rural poverty
The symbiotic relationship between poverty and environmental degradation is particularly strong
in the Lake Chad basin. Arid conditions coupled to deforestation and unsustainable agricultural
practices exacerbate desertification.
* short-term policy focus
A focus on the short-term often results in unsustainable policy decisions. The consequences of
these unsustainable decisions include costly investment that is abandoned because of unforeseen
changes in water availability, construction of large upstream dams without taking sufficient
account of downstream considerations and the absence of an integrated approach to water
resource management.
* non-existent or unsuitable water and environmental management policies
There is insufficient knowledge of water resources and how aquatic systems function. There is no
effective system for monitoring the quantity and quality of freshwater resources, nor are there
effective water quality protection programs.
* poor intersectoral program coordination with limited public participation and impact
Low-level public participation and inadequate mechanisms to secure such participation
characterize the region. There is insufficient cooperation between and among sectors and
countries. Environment-centred public education is virtually non-existent and enforcement is
weak.
The Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) has approached the Global Environment Facility for
support in confronting these problems. UNDP and the World Bank have both assisted in
developing the project. The project has six components:
Component 1: project mechanisms: e.g. an established Project Management Unit (PMU),
Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and pilot projects. To be implemented by UNDP.
Component 2: Enhanced regional policy initiatives to address transboundary issues. To be
implemented by the World Bank.
4



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - General Background
Component 3: Strengthened engagement of Stakeholders. To be implemented by UNDP.
Component 4: Completed TDA and framework for concerted management of the basin. To be
implemented by UNDP.
Component 5: Six Pilot Projects to test and validate methodologies, stakeholder involvement and
implementation modalities. To be implemented by the World Bank and UNDP.
Component 6: a Global Environmental Facility (GEF) Strategic Action Plan (SAP) designed,
endorsed and supported by funds. To be implemented by the World Bank.
Of the six components, Component 5 (Pilot Projects) is the only one that has direct impacts from
physical works (the other components are mostly "administrative", comprising plans,
frameworks, management units, initiatives, the impacts of which will be felt at a later stage of the
project). The screening procedure of the World Bank therefore focused on these "Pilots":
* Waza-Logone Floodplains (northern Cameroon).
The pilot will include regular allocation of water to the floodplain from Maga dam, rehabilitation
/ creation of a wildlife pond in Waza National Park, cleaning / enlarging of a channel connecting
two streams on the floodplain and developing management plans.
* the Komadougou-Yobe Integrated Wetlands (the KYB pilot) (northern Nigeria).
The pilot will include clearing blockages on floodplain channels to facilitate flow to floodplains,
reducing water consumption and developing systems of negotiated access to common property
resources to reduce land / water resource use in the wetlands.
* the Transboundary Desertification Control (Niger and Chad).
The pilot proposes to work in the areas of sand dune fixation, range management, water point
development and agricultural improvements on upland, rain fed sites.
* the Lake Chad Shorelines pilot (Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria),
The pilot will produce a management plan and monitoring scheme for Lake Chad and its shores
according to Ramsar guidelines.
* the Lake Fitri pilot (Chad).
The activities of the pilot are to compile existing studies, to hold a seminar, to conduct new
studies and dialogue with stakeholders, to formulate a management plan, approve the plan, and to
establish a management platform.
* Upper Chari Basin Transboundary Project (Central African Republic and Chad).
This pilot proposes a participatory planning approach to develop strategic and sustainable actions
designed to reverse current resources degradation.
The principal role of the pilot projects is the development / testing / adoption of sustainable
natural resource management (NRM) systems on a small scale to identify those that are best
suited for large scale application in the SAP. The present level of development of natural resource
management systems in the Lake Chad Basin is very low.
5



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - General Background
1.2. RATIONALE FOR PREPARATION OF THE RESETTLEMENT FRAMEWORK
The World Bank Safeguards policy requires "screening" of all projects proposed for Bank
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable, and
thus to improve decision making. In the process of project preparation, World Bank screening
concluded that, under Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) some of the pilots
will involve physical resettlement of population. A Resettlement Framework was therefore
necessary for the "Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin
Ecosystem" project. This ensures that involuntary resettlement, which can be traumatic,
debilitating and financially crippling, is fully addressed. The policy includes activities to address
and mitigate these risks. The present document (Resettlement Framework) is the instrument used
to address this. The guidelines are clear that there is a need to involve communities in the
planning and implementation of interventions that result from these polices and in most cases this
implies the need for a conflict resolution mechanism. OP 4.12 sates "...particular attention is
paid to the needs of vulnerable groups ... especially those below the poverty line, the landless, the
elderly, women and children, indigenous peoples and ethnic minorities. "
Another reason that the Resettlement Framework is required is because of the risk of dam failure.
The pilots operate in wetlands that have been dried out by the construction of dams. World Bank
safeguard Operational Policy 4.37 (Safety of Dams) was triggered by the initial environmental
assessment of the project. Recent inspections of the dams by a dam safety expert hired by the
World Bank has demonstrated that none of the dams are under imminent danger of failure, but
has also revealed that no emergency planning in case of failure exist. It is therefore
recommended under OP 4.37 that planning for emergency evacuation of dams be carried out.
World Bank screening also concluded that an environmental assessment (EA) was necessary
under Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 (Environmental Assessment).  A team of consultants
therefore analysed the proposed activities of the project and produced and environmental
assessment (see separate document).
OP 4.12 was also triggered because the project intends to designate protected areas (Ramsar
sites), which could limit the availability of resources within these sites for surrounding
inhabitants. The instrument used to mitigate against reduced access to resources within a
protected area or national park is a Process Framework (see separate document). Although this
does not relate to involuntarily displaced people, the effect is the same to the population (loss of
income, deterioration of standard of living).
As required by OP 4.01, the Safeguard Policies were applied to all project activities, including
those that would be co-financed by other donors. Safeguard Policies were also applied to
numerous pilot activities that are to be "catalysed" or promoted by the pilot projects, but not
funded by the projects.
1.3. OBJECTIVES OF THE RESETTLEMENT FRAMEWORK
The purpose of the Resettlement Framework is to clarify the principles for social impact
mitigation as regards compensation for loss of property, livelihood and relocation or resettlement.
The framework is valid for all subproject operations executed under the Reversal of Land and
Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin project financed by the World Bank in the six
countries of the Lake Chad basin.
6



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - General Background
The operational objective of the framework is to provide guidelines to stakeholders participating
in the mitigation of adverse social impacts of the project, including rehabilitation / resettlement
operations, in order to ensure that project affected persons (PAPs) will not be impoverished by
the adverse social impacts of the project.
The objectives of the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement are that it should be avoided
where feasible, or minimised, exploring all viable alternatives. Where it is not feasible to avoid
resettlement, resettlement activities should be conceived and executed as sustainable development
programmes, providing sufficient investment resources to give the persons displaced by the
project the opportunity to share in project benefits. Displaced persons should be meaningfully
consulted and have opportunities to participate in resettlement programs. Displaced persons
should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of living.
It implies that PAPs should be: compensated for loss of wages; compensated for loss of assets at
replacement costs; given opportunities to share project benefits; and be assisted in case of
relocation or resettlement. The paramount purpose is to restore the income earning capacity of the
project-affected persons. The aim is to improve or at least sustain the living conditions of the
PAPs prior to project operations or to resettlement.
1.4. ADVERSE SOCIAL IMPACTS
The long-term objective of the LCBC project is to build capacity within the Lake Chad Basin
Commission and its national committees so that it can better achieve its mandate of managing
land and water resources in the greater conventional basin of Lake Chad. In the short term,
however, project operations may have adverse social impacts, which will be mitigated in parallel
with project implementation. The project aims to address severe land and water degradation in the
basin. To do this, some of the activities will have to include reflooding of the former floodplain
and restricting access to common properties (rangeland, open water). These activities will be
implemented after consultation and participation with stakeholders, and be based to a large extent
on input from the stakeholders. However, in the process, the most critical project components
presumed to induce immediate adverse social impacts in the short term is the resettlement of
population as a result of reflooding of the floodplain under Maga Dam (Waza Logone Pilot) and
the potential risk of dam failure. The potential restriction of access rights to natural resources in
future Ramsar sites (Niger / Chad Transboundary Desertification Pilot, Lake Chad Shorelines
Pilot).
These project components are unlikely to induce substantial and immediate adverse social
impacts. Some, such as reflooding the floodplain below the Maga dam, is welcomed by the local
population and was requested by them. Restriction of access to natural resources is going to be
negotiated according to management plans that are arrived at by common consensus, in a
participatory manner. The actions associated with restriction of access are addressed in the
Process Framework.
This framework will address adverse social impacts directly related to project operations. In this
context, the World Bank's safeguard policy focuses on four main aspects of adverse social
impacts to be mitigated: resettlement, cultural heritage, health and indigenous people. Any
subproject that will have immediate adverse impact on the four subjects will trigger this
Resettlement Policy Framework.
7



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - General Background
The population eligible for resettlement are those people who will be displaced by project
activities e.g. those who have built homes on sites that would be flooded by proposed increased
releases of water from dams. The estimated number of people to be displaced in the project will
be assessed by the project.
Dam Safety
Although the project does not plan to construct dams, the safety of dams (OP 4.37) does enter
into the project because the project will rely on the performance of existing dams, and failure of
dams upstream to project activities and structures is relevant. Bank procedure therefore requires
that independent dam safety specialists inspect and evaluate the safety status of the existing dams,
review and evaluate the owner's operation and maintenance procedures and provide a written
report of findings. Reviews for the three dams involved in the project (Maga, Tiga and Challawa)
were completed by a dam safety expert recruited by the Bank.
There is no direct risk of failure of Maga dam, which is a 30km long earthen structure. However,
there is a need to implement management activities to make the operation of the dam safe (water
level not to exceed a certain height). The dam is threatened by erosion, wave action, overtopping
and seepage. The most viable option for improving the dam is modification to the left abutment
spillway. An emergency preparedness plan should also be put in place as soon as possible. The
plan should then be updated in accordance with the solution that will be implemented. If the dam
fails, several thousand people are at immediate risk to their lives, and approximately 20,000 are at
risk of being flooded.
At Tiga the probability of failure is considered high for this 8km zoned earthfill embankment. An
emergency preparedness plan should also be put in place as soon as possible. The number of
people at risk at Tiga is in the tens of thousands. The main threat is from "piping" (water creating
channels through the dam).
At Challawa the probability of failure is considered several orders of magnitude lower than Tiga.
The dam is a new 6km zoned earthfill embankment. An emergency preparedness plan should be
put in place as soon as possible. The number of people at risk of dam failure is in the tens of
thousands. The report states that more information is required to fully appraise the Challawa dam,
however the risks appear lower than at Tiga.
The reports concerning the three dams show that the danger of dam bursts is not immediate and
that therefore it will not be necessary to prepare resettlement plans as a requirement for
proceeding with project preparation. The report does however give recommendations that
management actions (e.g. lowering water level in the dam to reduce risk of overflow / failure) be
carried out. It is imperative that the management authorities for each dam carry out these
recommendations, as put forward in the dam safety report. Furthermore, emergency evacuation
plans should be prepared in addition to other actions such as installation of formal warning
systems, which are absent at Tiga and Challawa Gorge.
8



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Institutional Framework
2. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
2.1. PROJECT ORGANISATIONAL FRAMEWORK
The Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) was established in 1964 by the four countries, which
bordered the lake (Cameroon, ,Chad, Niger and Nigeria) with the signing of the Fort Lamy
Convention. Central African Republic (CAR) joined the LCBC in 1994, and brought with it the
Chari-Logone and Komadougou-Yobe river systems. Further expansion is anticipated with the
Sudanese Government left to ratify the LCBC Convention in Parliament.
Executing Agencies
Project Management Unit. The Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) will execute the World
Bank managed portion of the project. The LCBC will act on behalf of the LCBC member
countries, and be responsible to the World Bank (as Implementing Agency) and GEF to ensure
that applicable rules and procedures are adhered to. An inherent strategy within the project is to
establish a project management unit (PMU) to build capacity within the LCBC to execute the
SAP. The LCBC will have overall responsibility for the activities of the pilot demonstration
activities, specifically coordination responsibilities such as monitoring and evaluation. The PMU
staff will be housed at LCBC headquarters and comprise an internationally recruited Project
Manager, a regionally recruited Director of Administration and Finance, and other locally
recruited staff.
Project management
Project Steering Committee. The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be chaired by the
Executive Secretary of the LCBC, with one member from each of the member states, and two
representatives of the LCBC staff. Additionally, the PSC will be comprised of a representative of
the two GEF Implementing Agencies, one member from UNOPS, and the Project Manager, who
shall serve as an ex-officio member. Other members may be added to the PSC at the discretion of
the PSC at any time.
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committees. Each of the Participating Countries shall convene an
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee (IMCC). The LCBC will assist the countries in this
activity. Each IMCC will function to coordinate country level activities necessary to the
formulation of the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and the Strategic Action Program
(SAP). As part of country specific TDA activities, each country will formulate and prioritise its
project related, country specific activities on a sector-by-sector basis. Further, working with and
through the Project TDA formulation process, they will determine, in priority sequence, the
transboundary issues that confront the Lake Chad Basin as a whole. Each Participating Country
shall, with the assistance of the LCBC, name a Lead Country Official who will Chair the IMCC.
Provision has been made for staff assistance to each of the designated Country Chairs. Limited
financial provision has also been made for meetings of each country IMCC.
Monitoring
The LCBC via the Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Steering Committee (PSC) will
have overall responsibility for the activities of the pilot demonstration activities, specifically
coordination responsibilities such as monitoring and evaluation. The LCBC will report to the
Bank and be responsible for ensuring that all GEF-funded activities are carried out in compliance
9



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Institutional Framework
with the project design and contracts. The project will comply with the required monitoring and
evaluation procedures as required for the Mid-Term Review and Implementation Completion
Report. The evaluation will rely on both qualitative and quantitative criteria using Bank
guidelines, "Monitoring and Evaluation of Program Impacts."
The project will also be closely monitored by the UJNDP Country Office through quarterly
meetings or more frequently as deemed necessary with the Project Manager. This will allow to
take stock and to trouble shoot of any problems pertaining to the project quickly to ensure smooth
implementation of project activities.
2.2. RESETTLEMENT PLANNING PRINCIPLES AND PROCESS
The LCBC will provide the general direction for the planning of the relocation / compensation
process, ensure coordination between various stakeholders and monitor the implementation. At
launching of each subproject, stakeholders will be consulted to establish planning principles and
work arrangements aimed at identifying and mitigating adverse social impacts induced by sub-
project operations. Baseline surveys, valuation of properties and payment of compensation will be
effected ahead of the commencement of works. Progressively, all PAPs will be consulted in the
process, be it in the context of resettlement / compensation, in the context of mitigating adverse
impacts on cultural heritage or in the context of mitigating other project related social impacts.
Likewise, prior to project launching, appropriate government agencies will be consulted by the
LCBC.
In line with established procedures, the LCBC via specialized NGOs and agencies will conduct
the registration of PAPs and properties in the project zone, establish compensation committees,
execute the payment of compensation, effect the valuation of crops and trees and execute the
valuation of houses. Similar arrangements will be established with local governments whenever
and wherever necessary.
The LCBC will be the contracting entity that will contract out resettlement operations to
specialised NGOs and resettlement agencies. All resettlement plans will be reviewed and
approved by the government as well as by the World Bank.
10



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Legal Framework for Compensation
3. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR COMPENSATION
3.1. COMPENSATION LAWS
The laws in the Lake Chad Basin countries that govern the compensation to individuals of assets
foregone from resettlement are not known to the project. Various project activities e.g. project
Output 2, Activity 2.5 aim to address these gaps in knowledge. The project will have to address
the legal basis for the expropriation and compensation procedures to be used by the LCBC.
Likewise, it will have to establish the legal framework for the resettlement and rehabilitation
policy framework.
The activities within Component 2 aim to assess relevant legal frameworks in each country and
establish regional structural arrangements for participating countries to review, harmonise and
coordinate these frameworks, although this applies mostly to sharing international water
resources.
World Bank policies, however, are explicit in that even if national and regional legislation does
not provide for compensation, projects funded fully or in part by the Bank do provide for
compensation. The major indicator of the effectiveness of mitigation measures is that the
affected people should not be worse off after resettlement and/or compensation than they were
before the project activity affecting them was implemented.
3.2. LCBC STRATEGY FOR EXPROPRIATION AND COMPENSATION
The LCBC strategy for expropriation and compensation applies to any component of the project
that involves resettlement. This section illustrates how compensation applies (or does not apply)
to the populations affected by the project. It shows that in previous subprojects that the current
LCBC project has taken over, participation was widely used. The current GEF project hopes to
continue where the previous implementing / funding agencies left off, using the same
methodology. As an example, the methodology of the Waza Logone Pilot is given:
Background: Waza Logone Pilot
The Waza Logone Project was established in 1988, with the support of the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The objectives included: promoting the integrated
management of the natural resources of the floodplain, providing a sustainable livelihood for the
local communities, maintaining biodiversity, and in particular maintaining the integrity of the
Waza National Park.
In 1992 the project began evaluating constraints and opportunities, collecting data on socio-
economics, hydrology and ecology, and initiating a process of stakeholder participation in the
evaluation and planning of the management of the floodplain. This led to the idea of creating
breaks in the dike that extends downstream from Maga Dam as a means of increasing flooding
and partially restoring the ecology and livelihoods on the upper Waza-Logone floodplain. Project
evaluation indicated the idea was sound.



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Legal Framework for Compensation
Supported by strong requests from local communities and the local administration, in 1994
SEMRY' (the owners and managers of Maga dam) allowed the project to open a section of dike
that had blocked the flow from the Logone river to the Petit Gorema floodplain channel, and
flood waters re-entered the system.
In 1995, with funding from the Netherlands Government and WWF, the project continued
monitoring the effects of the 1994 release and continued the dialogue with affected communities
and other stakeholders. In 1997, a second break in the dike was opened. The additional flow re-
instated flooding to a major part of the floodplain west of the Logomatya channel. The total
"average" flooded area has been increased by some 200 km2, equivalent to 6% of the original
floodplain. The impact is locally very significant as the flooding is focused on the area affecting
the southern zone and the Waza National Park. The major achievements of the Waza Logone
project are at two levels.
Regionally and internationally: the project has drawn attention to the social, economic and
ecological benefits of maintaining or reintroducing floods in natural floodplains.
Within the floodplain: the "pilot" releases have been maintained and are effectively a permanent
feature, re-establishing flooding to some 6% of the floodplain with localised significant benefits
to communities in the south and other parts of the floodplain, and to the ecological integrity of
Waza National Park.
Need for Compensation
This shows that although there is increased flooding in the floodplain, the inhabitants benefit
from it, which raises the question as to whether compensation is really the issue. What is probable
is that, if necessary (flooding has already been going on for nearly a decade) the project should
assist the populations to be resettled with transport, logistics, housing or cash equivalent.
The identification / survey of project-affected persons (PAPs), should be conducted by the LCBC
with the assistance of WWF, IUCN or Netherlands Government experts with experience in the
project. LCBC staff will need guidance in applying World Bank requirements in expropriation /
compensation standards and the valuation of houses and other assets (see Annex 11.4).
The standards for compensation of loss of land and loss of property in Cameroon should also be
researched, and applied accordingly. Compensation will take into account: i) the legal status of
the land to be compensated; ii) the quality of the land as regard to its utilization and iii) the
quantity and the number of people using the land as the main source of income. The project has
to decide if the land will be bought, and if so, who will buy it (local government, SEMRY, the
LCBC?). The value of land will be established by a qualified organisation.
PAPs who will lose their titles, will be provided new land with titles. Likewise, PAPs without
titles will also be provided land in accordance with the legal status of the land that they
previously cultivated or exploited. Economically marginalized PAPs with reduced access to land
will be given particular attention by providing them with more land in order to enhance the
sources of their livelihood. Also, home gardens for women will be restored with equivalent
facilities in terms of access to sources of water.
'Societe d'Expansion et de Modemnisation de la Riziculture de Yagoua
12



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Legal Framework for Compensation
3.3. WORLD BANK PROCEDURES FOR RESETTLEMENT/REHABILITATION (OP 4.12)
The World Bank operational directive OP 4.12 states:... "Where the specific resettlement needs of
each subproject are not known in advance, the borrower would need to agree to resettlement
policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria that meet Bank policy
and requirements as a condition of the loan. An estimate should be provided of total population to
be displaced and overall resettlement costs, as well as an evaluation of proposed resettlement
sites. Subprojects in sector investment loans should be screened by the implementing agency to
ensure consistency with this directive, and approved individually by the Bank".
The commitment of the LCBC to comply with the requirements of World Bank's operational
directives should be made explicit and incorporated in the credit agreement. Furthermore, the
LCBC will ensure, in the credit agreement, its commitment to addressing the adverse social
impacts of project operations.
13



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Organisational Procedures
4. ORGANISATIONAL PROCEDURES
The LCBC, its Steering Committee (PSC) and Management Unit (PMU) will be responsible for
the organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements. This will be done in coordination
with experts having experience on the project. The LCBC / PSC / PMU will also be responsible
for financial disbursements, if they occur.
4.1. IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
The process for implementing the mitigatory measures is
(1) To deternine if resettlement is required (survey if populations have not already resettled
as a result of floods in 1992, 1994 and 1997).
(2) To draw up a detailed list of all persons affected (PAPs).
(3) To determine what each PAP stands to lose (valuation of houses, land, crops and other
properties).
(4) To determine what the timeframe is for compensation.
(5) To determine what the preferred compensation is (participatory process).
(6) To offer compensation (kind or cash).
4.2. GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISM
The PAPs will be given opportunities to present complaints and grievances through the
resettlement process. The mechanisms for redressing the grievances of the affected
populations will be through consultation. Their concerns will be taken into account by 1) the
implementing agency in cooperation with local authority, traditional leaders, existing user
organisations, and other organisations and 2) there will also be a mechanisms for PAPs to receive
assistance to direct their complaints to higher level of authority should it not be solved under 1).
The process by which grievances will be redressed, for each Pilot, is first through the project
implementing agency. The project implementing agency will have a conflict resolution
committee, which include representatives of the PAPs, which will review each grievance case.
Compensation rates will be determined by this committee. Compensation will be paid to PAPs
after written consent. Should a PAP refuse the compensation suggested, he/she could appeal to
the local administration or traditional court. Should grievance prevail, a civil court will settle the
litigation. Each individual PAP has the right to refuse the compensation rate proposed and take
his case to the court when other grievance redress measures have failed. This process will be
further refined during implementation.
4.3. ARRANGEMENTS FOR FUNDING
The arrangements for funding will include either the facilities to relocate or the cash equivalent.
The source for funding will be specified in the credit agreement.
14



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Operational Procedures
5. OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
5.1.   INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
The Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) was set up in 1964 and is headed by a Steering
Committee comprised of representatives of each member country. A management unit will help
build capacity to implement the Strategic Action Plan. The LCBC via the Project Management
Unit (PMU) and Project Steering Committee (PSC) will have overall responsibility for the
activities of the pilot demonstration activities, specifically coordination responsibilities such as
monitoring and evaluation.
Project operations regarding resettlement / rehabilitation will be coordinated and monitored by
the LCBC office. Independent, recognised specialists (consultants / NGOs) with the necessary
expertise, selected by LCBC, will be contracted to carry out the payment of compensation and to
effect the valuation of land and houses. Although this is not yet set up, it is suggested that each
Pilot committee deal with its own resettlement issues, in parallel to issues of access to resource
and conflict resolution. The committee will therefore have a specialised unit for resettlement. It
will include a sociologist familiar with participatory methods, an economist familiar with
valuations, representatives of local governments, representatives of local traditional groups and
representatives of PAPs. The exact responsibility of each resettlement committee will vary
between Pilots, and will be absent if resettlement is not an issue.
5.2.   PROJECT LAUNCHING
At project launching, an assessment of the social impacts of the Pilot projects will be conducted.
The assessment will help to: (i) determine which mitigation measures to be taken; and (ii)
establish whether or not detailed Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) with timetables and budgets
should be prepared.
Terms of reference (TOR) for the assessment will be drafted by the LCBC. Issues to be addressed
by the assessment will include: demography; land tenure; socio-economic structure, consultations
with local authorities and with PAPs. A key task to be conducted under this process is a
household survey describing the extent of the social impacts. The social survey should contain
general household data such as: family size, gender and age information; education; occupation;
land ownership, tenure arrangements, inheritance regulations; sources of income and so forth.
The survey would estimate the extent to which the affected families will experience loss of assets,
including control over resources, as well as infrastructure and social services available and
disturbed. The survey should further describe local organizations and institutions, traditional
village councils, religious groups, etc., that could later participate in planning and implementing
the resettlement options. Expected changes in demography and health impacts should also be
addressed. At this stage, all PAPs will be listed in order to avoid an influx of people trying to take
advantage of the compensation and rehabilitation. A cut off date will be proclaimed. That means,
a date from which eligibility for compensation will be terminated. New inhabitants coming to the
project affected areas will not be considered for compensation.
15



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Operational Procedures
A critical task of the assessment will be to identify new land for those PAPs who will lose their
land.
The principles of compensation / rehabilitation will be triggered wherever there will be land
acquisition and adverse social impacts. Should, however, the assessment reveal that more than
200 persons are affected, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will have to be prepared. The World
Bank OD 4.30 paragraph 4, states:
Where large-scale2 population displacement is unavoidable, a detailed
resettlement plan, timetable, and budget are required Resettlement plans
should be built around a development strategy and package aimed at
improving or at least restoring the economic base for those relocated.
Experience indicates that cash compensation alone is normally inadequate.
Voluntary settlement mayform part of a resettlement plan, provided measures
to address the special circumstances of involuntary resettlers are included
Preference should be given to land-based resettlement strategies for people
dislocatedfrom agricultural settings. If suitable land is unavailable, nonland-
based strategies built around opportunities for employment or self-
employment may be used.
The TOR for the RAP will be drafted by the LCBC and focus on the following:
*  Land tenure, household survey; socio-economic baseline study;
*  Selection of resettlement area and provision for altemative sites;
*  Organizational structures;
*  Community participation of both resettles and hosts, including also community institutions or
organizations of both groups and NGOs;
*  Legal framework;
*  Plan and design of development assistance to cover both project affected persons (PAPs) and
host community;
*  Valuation methodology, title registration, time frame in compensation procedures, appeal
mechanisms;
*  Impact on marginal groups, old people, women, ethnic minorities and pastoralists;
*  Cultural identity and preservation;
*  Access to training, employment and credit;
*  Housing, including criteria for house plot allocation, infrastructure and social services;
*  State of natural resources, land suitability and carrying capacity at resettlement site estimated
at least two generations ahead taking into account population and livestock growth, as well as
water availability and water quality;
*  Immediate as well as foreseen health implications at resettlement site in relation to water-
borne diseases, nutrition, environmental hygiene, availability of clinics or other health
extension services, hazardous chemicals, toxic wastes, food contamination and the work
environment;
2 Where only afew people (e.g., less than 100-200 individuals) are to be relocated, appropriate
compensation for assets, logistical support for moving, and a relocation grant may be the only
requirements. However, the principles on which compensation is to be based are the same as for
larger groups.
16



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Operational Procedures
*  Possibilities and constraints regarding assimilation or integration of resettles into host
communities;
*  Staff requirements, staff training needs, necessary equipment,
*  Cost estimation, budget, synchronized resettlement implementation action plan with the road
implementation schedule; and
*  Monitoring and evaluation procedures.
5.3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The LCBC will consult with the stakeholders to assess presumed adverse social impacts of
project operations and plan for the expropriation / compensation / resettlement operations to be
executed. Once the resettlement plan is prepared, reviewed and approved by the government and
the World Bank, implementation of the expropriation / compensation and resettlement /
relocation operations should be completed as soon as possible.
The implementation procedures will be carried out by the contracted specialists in line with the
approved resettlement plan.
17



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Socio-Economic Background of PAPs
6. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND OF PAPS
6.1. IDENTIFICATION OF PAPs
The number of people who would be affected by the project has not been identified. It is known
that their economic activities are agricultural and pastoral (cattle). However, more detailed studies
of the stakeholders have not been done for this project. It is suggested that as much information
on the social structure of the potential PAPs be found from the former projects, if applicable, and
that, if these data are insufficient, to carry out a detailed survey of the potential PAPs.
Social impact assessment will be conducted prior to project operations that are presumed to have
major social impacts in terms of expropriation and compensation. It will establish the social
structures of PAPs, serve as basis for determining eligibility criteria and for estimating
resettlement costs as well as establishing baseline data for monitoring and evaluation.
6.2. SOCIAL IMPACTS OF THE LCBC
Impacts on Land Use, Crops, Buildings and other Property
The LCBC's operations' impacts on land use, crops, buildings and other property are expected to
cover a very large area (the Lake Chad basin). Close to 20 million people depend for their
livelihood on activities carried out in the lake and its active basin. However, it is anticipated that
considerably less than that number of people will be affected by resettlement issues.
Impacts on Economic Activities
The LCBC will affect economic activities of the project regions. The project is presumed to have
positive impacts on mid-term and long-term economic activities on the macro level, although
short-term disturbance is considered if persons affected by the project have to resettle.
18



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Methods of Valuing Affected Assets
7. METHODS OF VALUING AFFECTED ASSETS
7.1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES FOR DELIVERY OF ENTITLEMENTS
With regard to land and structures, "replacement cost" can be obtained using the following rules:
for agricultural land, it is the pre-project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher, market value
of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus the
cost of land preparation to levels similar to those of the affected land, plus the cost of any
registration and transfer taxes. For land in urban areas, it is the pre-displacement market value of
land of equal size and use, with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services
and located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes.
For houses and other structures, it is the market cost of the materials to build a replacement
structure with an area and quality similar to or better than those of the affected structure, or to
repair a partially affected structure, plus the cost of transporting building materials to the
construction site, plus the cost of any labour and contractors' fees, plus the cost of any registration
3
and transfer taxes3.
In determining the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage materials
are not taken into account, nor is the value of benefits to be derived from the project deducted
from the valuation of an affected asset. Where domestic law does not meet the standard of
compensation at full replacement cost, World Bank guidelines and technical specifications for
compensation at replacement cost will be applied.
7.2. METHOD AND BASIS OF VALUATION
Two methods can be used to conduct the valuation of property for PAPs. These are replacement
cost and compensation value3 (see also Annex 11.4). It is recommended that govemments follow
the World Bank policy in this regard.
Replacement Cost
The replacement cost approach is based on the premise that the cost of replacing productive
assets that have been damaged because of project operations are taken as a minimum estimate of
the value of measures that will reduce the damage or improve on-site management practices and
thereby prevent damage. The approach involves direct replacement of expropriated assets and
covers an amount that is sufficient for asset replacement, net depreciation, moving expenses and
other transaction costs. This minimum value is then compared to the cost of the new measures.
This is arrived at, by analysing current construction costs relative to design, materials employed,
workmanship and final finish of the subject properties.
In line with the principles of "equivalent reinstatement" if the premises to be reinstated require
repair, a deduction to reflect this should be made. The deduction for repairs is made in accordance
with the principle that the reinstated property should as far as possible be equal to the property
being reinstated.
3 Obtained from World Bank document "Resettlement / Rehabilitation Framework", Private Sector
Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project, Guinea-Bissau, May 2001.
19



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Methods of Valuing Affected Assets
The basis of the valuation is Gross Current Replacement Cost (GCRC). Gross Current
Replacement Cost is defined as the estimated cost of erecting a new building having the same
gross external area as that of the existing one, with the site works and services on a similar piece
of land. The valuation process will also consider the use of "compensation value" for affected
properties.
Compensation Value
Compensation value is defined as an amount which is above the gross current replacement cost,
including the costs for the inconvenience caused to the PAP by relocation, and enables the same
PAP to build slightly better houses than what they currently occupy.
Compensation for land, structures, business, fixed improvements and other temporary assets will
be based on market valuation, productivity valuation, negotiated settlements, material and labour
valuation, disposition of salvage materials and other fees paid. It should be noted that lack of title,
license or permit would not be a bar to compensation because even squatters have construction
costs relative to design, materials employed, workmanship and final finish.
If relocation of business becomes necessary, access to customers and suppliers will be taken into
account. In addition, workers losing employment in the process of relocating should be entitled to
transitional income support.
Compensation for temporary impacts should include, but not limited to, the following:
*   Compensation equivalent to lost income required for the duration of impact;
*   Compensation equivalent to lost income required for loss of access;
*   Physical restoration of assets (or access) required prior to return.
In addition, PAPs will be entitled to transitional assistance which include moving expenses,
temporary residence (if necessary), employment training and income support while awaiting
employment and should have an option for full compensation if duration of impact is to exceed
two years. In preparing the valuation, average costs will have to be assumed. It should be noted
that costs of construction vary from one locality to the other.
7.3. COMPENSATION PROCEDURES AND CIVIL WORK SCHEDULE
An assessment of the number of PAPs will be made and establish whether or not a Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) is required. The LCBC or a local consultant will conduct the assessment.
Compensation will be paid at replacement cost. An expropriation and compensation committee
will be established for PAPs in the project area following the social impact assessment. The
committee will be constituted of a sociologist, an economist, representatives of local
governments, representatives of local traditional groups and representatives of PAPs. Together
they will conduct the registration of affected PAPs and properties. Likewise, they will establish
the compensation rates, taking into account World Bank requirements.
Compensation procedures will include three steps: (a) Establishment of compensation
committees, (b) Assessment of replacement values of identified assets; (c) Establishment of
compensation rates for all assets to be expropriated.
20



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Methods of Valuing Affected Assets
Compensation Rates for Loss of Houses
Compensation procedures for loss of houses will be established in consultations between the
LCBC, project staff and the PAPs. This committee will establish the rates. The committee should
conduct market surveys to monitor changes in building material costs in order to update the
expropriation / compensation rates. The rates will be established at market value. Each
administrative decision in the process will be documented. Also, each individual PAP will have
the right to refuse the rate proposed and take his case to court should he disagree with the
compensation rates proposed.
Grievance Redress
First, compensation committees including representatives of PAPs will establish the
compensation rates in order to avoid litigation. Second, compensation will be paid to individual
PAPs only after a written consent of the PAPs, including both husband and wife. Should a PAP
refuse the compensation suggested, he/she could appeal to the local administration or traditional
court. Should grievance prevail, a civil court will settle the litigation. Each individual PAP has the
right to refuse the compensation rate proposed and take his case to the court when other grievance
redress measures have failed.
21



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Sources of Funding
8. SOURCES OF FUNDING
A budget to cover expropriation and compensation costs for loss of properties for PAPs will be
provided by the project, as well as for necessary studies. A provision (US $) still has to be made
in the project budget and will be specified in the credit agreement. Institutional mechanisms for
the payment of compensation still have to be elaborated.
22



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Consultation and Participation Process
9. CONSULTATION AND PARTICIPATION PROCESS
Relocating or compensating people implies communication or dialogue with the stakeholders.
The consultation and participation process will include four phases: i) data collecting; ii)
preparation and planning of operations; iii) implementation of operations; iv) monitoring and
evaluation.
The LCBC will coordinate all four operations.
9.1. DATA COLLECTING PHASE
Actors: LCBC, NGOs, PMU, PSC.
Possibly: IUCN, WWF, experts formerly involved in project, Netherlands government, PAPs
(provision of data).
The actors will constitute the main task force in the data-collecting phase. This process will
include consultations with PAPs and other relevant stakeholders. The data collected will serve as
instruments for the monitoring of the social mitigation measures applied.
PAPs will be consulted to participate in the data-collecting phase by providing socio-economic
information about their livelihoods. Also, PAPs will be consulted through meetings with
traditional village committees to share information about the LCBC, discuss the social impacts of
project operations and the mitigation measures suggested. The contributions of the PAPs will be
integrated into the subproject implementation process, from planning to evaluation.
Furthermore, data about the social impacts of the subprojects and the mitigation measures
suggested will be provided to local newspapers and radio stations.
The data-collecting phase includes three major processes:
i)     Preparation of the resettlement / rehabilitation policy framework;
ii)    Execution of the social impact assessment (to be initiated / completed at
project launching) and
iii)   Establishment of the presumed RAP (to be initiated / completed before civil
works).
9.2. PLANNING PHASE
Actors: LCBC, PAPs (planning inputs, sounding board and advice-giving), representatives of
local communities.
Planning and coordination of the tasks of the various actors is the key to a successful
implementation of the expropriation / compensation arrangements. The PAPs will be consulted
in the aim to obtain their positions on issues at stake. The requirements of their work programs /
businesses activities will be incorporated into the expropriation / compensation plans.
The work will focus on:
23



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Consultation and Participation Process
a) taking stock of the legal framework for compensation; b) settle institutional arrangements and
mechanisms for payment of compensation; c) define tasks and responsibilities of each stakeholder
and d) establish a work plan.
8-29.3. IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
Actors: principal actor is the World Bank. Also LCBC, PAPs (endorsement of arrangements).
The execution of the expropriation / compensation operations will be conducted by the LCBC, by
their contracted specialist team. PAPs will be consulted about the compensation arrangements
prepared. Cash compensation amount and size of land offered for compensation will be presented
to each eligible PAP (husband and wife) for consideration and endorsement before cash payment
or land for land compensation can be effected.
9.4. MONITORING AND EVALUATION PHASE
Actors: LCBC, PSC, PMU, independent consultants, NGOs, PAPs.
The LCBC will organize project completion workshops with govemment agencies, NGOs and
representatives of PAPs after completion of the expropriation / compensation operations but prior
to the closure of the mitigation measures. The aim of that exercise is to assess progress in the
operations executed, suggest corrective measures where needed and solve pending issues.
After completion of all expropriation / compensation operations, PAPs will be consulted in a
household survey. The aim of that survey is to assess the impacts of the social mitigation
measures implemented. Likewise, rural communities with PAPs will be consulted to provide their
assessments of the impacts of the social mitigation measures applied.
The findings of the survey and the workshops will be presented in the project completion report,
which will be established by the LCBC.
24



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
10. MONITORING AND EVALUATION ARRANGEMENTS
Actors: LCBC, PAPs, NGOs.
Monitoring and evaluation will be a continuous process. The LCBC will continuously take stock
of all expropriation / compensation reports and discuss their outcomes in its technical meetings.
The LCBC / PSC will directly monitor compensation costs for loss of wages. The LCBC / PSC
will review project activities, including social mitigation measures and provide guidance.
10.1. MONITORING PRINCIPLES
A monitoring and an evaluation plan of the mitigation measures will be established. The scope of
the plan will take into account the size of the social impacts to be mitigated while respecting the
basic monitoring principles. The plans will describe:
* The internal monitoring process;
*  Key monitoring indicators (provide a list of monitoring indicators, which would be used for
internal monitoring);
*  Institutional (including financial) arrangements;
* Frequency of reporting and content for internal monitoring, process for integrating feedback
from internal monitoring into implementation;
* Financial arrangements for external monitoring and evaluation, including process for
awarding and maintenance of contracts for the duration of resettlement;
* Methodology for external monitoring;
* Key indicators for external monitoring, focusing on outputs and impacts;
* Frequency of reporting and content for external monitoring and process for integrating
feedback from external monitoring into implementation.
Internal Monitoring
Internal monitoring will be conducted by the LCBC, following the plan described. Likewise, the
communities will conduct their own monitoring. Quarterly LCBC progress reports will include a
section on progress made regarding mitigation of adverse social impacts.
10.2. EXTERNAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION
External monitoring will be conducted though World Bank supervision missions. Classic World
Bank supervision mission (twice a year) will, however, not be sufficient to monitor progress in
the mitigation of adverse social impacts. Given the limited social scientific capacity of the lake
Chad countries, World Bank supervision missions should be coupled with capacity building
inputs from an international resettlement expert. This would ensure: progress on the ground;
strengthen analytical capacity and safeguard proper documentation of operations executed and the
progress made.
Before closure of the mitigation of adverse social impacts, the LCBC will consult with a local
NGO to conduct an evaluation of the mitigation measures executed. A university could also do
that work. The evaluation report will be used as a planning instrument to correct pending issues
and suggest a post-project monitoring period in the aim to ensure that PAPs have not been subject
to impoverishment induced by LCBC operations.
25



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
11. ANNEXES
Annex 11.1. LIST OF PEOPLE CONTACTED
Pilot Projects  Names                      Titles                       Institutions
Waza Logone     Oyo, Pierre                Directeur                    CACID Waza Logone
Kouokam, Roger             Chef DPP                     CACID Waza Logone
Pirot, Jean Yves           Coordinateur Programme Zones IUCN
Humides/eau
Santen, Jose Van           Coordinateur Homologue       CML
CEDC
Madi, Ali                  Coordinateur CEDC            CEDC Maroua
Nono, Micheline T.          RAF CACID/Waza Logone        CACID Waza Logone
Mohamadou, Oumarou         A.T. Ecologie Appliquee      CACID Waza Logone
CACID Waza Logone
Saleh, Adam                Conservateur du Parc National  Conservation
de Waza
Ngantou, Daniel             Directeur Regional IUCN      IUCN
BRAC
Peghouma, Ibrahim          Responsible Charge de l'eco-  CACID Waza Logone
developpement
Lake Fitri      Kelele, Mahamat Absakine   Sultan                       Yao/Lake Fitri
Ibrahim, Mahamat           President                    Groupement des Pecheurs du Lac Fitri
Ousmane, Abakar            President                    Douhounou -- Groupement des
Agriculteurs de Yao
Jerma, Mahamat             President                    Marmiton -- Groupement des
Agriculteurs de Yao
Abba, Al Hadj Hassane      President                    Doumbourou -- Groupement des
agriculteurs de Yao
Yirima, Al Hadj Hassane    President                    Hijer
Youssou, Mariam            Presidente                   Siye -- Groupement des femmes
Kaidela, Mariam            Secretaire                    Siye -- Groupement des femmes
Dogo, Haoua                Presidente                   Logona -- Groupement des femmes
Issa, Aiche                S&retaire                    Logona -- Groupement des femmes
Abba, Mariam               Tresoriere                   Logona -- Groupement des femmes
Payouni, Ahmad             Responsible Unite Appui et   SECADEV-Direction
Programmes
Bertran, Hadji             Directeur Delegue            SECADEV--Ambassetna
Beral, Bernard             Deldgue adjoint              SECADEV--Ambassetna
Lakeshore /     Kala, Badoua               Chef Service                 Environnement-Diffa, Niger
Desertification  Sani, Garba               Charge du Genie Rural        Environnement-Diffa, Niger
Kanta, Moussa              Directeur                    CEG
Ouma, Hamza                Chef Service                 Plan
Sani, Mamadou Gani         Chef Service                 Elevage PI
Chabane, Hassine Ben       Manager                      Ramboll--Water & Sanitation Project
Mai, Manga Maina Yacouba   Depute National              PCD/E
Louali, Maroussa Mahamane  Directeur Adjoint            Hydraulique--Diffa, Niger
26



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
Community       Djimet, Abdel-Karim        Adjoint au Maire            Mairie-Nddle, RCA
Participation in  Mandaba, Jean Michel     Ministre Delegue            Ministere de l'Environnement
the Integrated  Neby, Issa Michel          Depute                       Sous-prefecture Ndel
Management of
the Chari Basin  Karalema, Jean            Divisionnaire               Eaux et Forets--Ndeld
Nguette, Eugene            Maire 4eme Arrondissement    Arrondissement de Bossanguoua
Doungoube, Gustave         Directeur Environnement &    Direction de l'Environnement--RCA
Point focal FEM
Azouyangui, Catherine      Directrice Environnement     Direction de l'Environnement--RCA
Mbo, Basile                Chef de Division Forestiere  Division foretiere de Bossanguoua
Yamindou, Jean             Coordinateur                 World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
Lake Chad Basin Sani, Mohamed              Secretaire Executif         Commission du Bassin du Lac Tchad
Commission                                                             (CBLT)
Gbafolo, Martin            Directeur Departement des    CBLT
Ressources en Eau
Assane, Mahamane           Directeur de la Planification et .CBLT
du Suivi et Evaluation des
Proj ets
Ahmed, Sadick              Hydrologue                   CBLT
Mey, Mahamat               Agropastoraliste             CBLT
Oguntala, Johnson A.       Chef Unite ressources en Eau  CBLT
Yonkeu, Emmanuel           Directeur Ddpartement        CBLT
Documentation
Boukari, Modi              Chef Service Financier       CBLT
Tam, Lambert               Secretaire Executif Adjoint  CBLT
Other Key       Gregor Hans Binkert        Country Manager             AFMTD -- World Bank
People          Francois Rantrua           Senior Environmental &      AFTES -- World Bank
Contacted                                 Information Specialist
Tracy Hart                 Senior Economist, Water and  ATFU2 -- World Bank
Urban West & Central Africa--
Robert Calderisi           Country Directeur           Chad/Cameroon/CAR/Equ.
Guinea/Gabon
Charles Donang Ningayo     Senior Operations Officer   AFMTD -- World Bank
David Laroche              IW                          UNDP
Mrs. Laokole               Program Officer             UNDP--Chad
Annex 11.2. OUTLINE OF A RESETTLEMENT PLAN
Introduction - Project Background
*   Brief introduction about the project
*   List of project components
*   Description of project components causing land acquisition and resettlement.
Overall estimates of land acquisition and resettlement.
*   Minimizing resettlement
*   Describe efforts made for minimizing resettlement
*   Describe the result of these efforts
27



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
-Census and Socio-economic Surveys
*  Identify all categories of impacts (loss of property and assets; loss of
livelihood; impacts on groups and communities)
*  Give formats and tables for census surveys
*  Provide outlines for socio-economic survey
*  Summarize process for consultations on the results of the census surveys
*  Describe need and mechanism to conduct updates, if necessary
-Resettlement Policy and Legal Framework
*  Identify areas of conflict between local laws and World Bank policies, and
project-specific mechanisms to address conflicts
*  Provide a definition of project affected persons
*  Describe entitlement categories for each category of impact
*  Describe method of evaluation used for affected structures, land, trees and
other assets
*  Provide entitlement matrix
-Resettlement Sites
*  Does the project need community relocation? Have these been approved by
the PAPs?
*  Give layouts and designs of residential sites
*  Have the PAPs agreed to the strategy for housing replacement? Have the
selected sites been explicitly approved by the PAPs describe the specific
process of showing the sites to the PAPs and obtaining their opinion on them.
*  Describe the technical and feasibility studies conducted to determine the
suitability of the proposed sites.
*  Is the land quality/area adequate for allocation to all of the PAPs eligible for
allocation of agricultural land?
*  Give calculations relating to site requirements and availability.
*  Describe mechanisms for (i) procuring, (ii) developing and (iii) allotting
resettlement sites
* Provide detailed description of the arrangements for site development for
agriculture, including funding of development costs.
-Institutional Arrangements
*  Identify and discuss the institutions responsible for delivery of each
item/activity in the entitlement policy
* Describe the project resettlement unit - functions and organizational structure
of the unit and coordination relationship
*  State how coordination issues will be addressed in cases where resettlement is
spread over a number of jurisdictions.
*  Identify who will coordinate all agencies-with the necessary mandate
*  State when the project resettlement unit will be staffed.
28



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
* Describe plans for training and development of staff in the resettlement t
unit/local agencies.
* Discuss initiatives taken to improve the long term capacity or resettlement
institutions
-Income Restoration
*  Briefly spell out the main restoration strategies for each category of impacts,
and describe the institutional, financial and technical aspects.
*  Describe the process of consultation with project affected persons (PAPs) to
finalize strategies for income restoration
*  How do these strategies vary with the area/locality of impact?
*  Are the compensation entitlements sufficient to restore income streams for
each category of impact? What additional economic rehabilitation measures
are necessary?
*  Does income restoration require change in livelihoods, development of
alternative farmlands, etc., or involve some other activities, which require a
substantial amount of time for preparation and implementation?
*  How does the action plan propose to address impoverishment risks?
*  Are choices and options built into the entitlements? If so, what is the
mechanism for risk and benefit analysis of each option? What is the process of
ensuring that PAPs have knowledge about alternatives and can make informed
decisions? Is there a mechanism to encourage vulnerable groups among PAPs
to choose lower risk options such as support in kind rather than cash?
*  What are the main institutional and other risks for the smooth implementation
of the resettlement programs?
--Implementation Schedule
*  List and briefly describe the chronological steps in implementation of the
resettlement, including identification of agencies responsible for each step of
the program.
*  Prepare a month-wise implementation schedule of activities to be undertaken
as part of the resettlement implementation (Gantt chart)
*  Describe the linkages between resettlement implementation and initiation of
civil works for each of the project components.
.Costs and Budget
*  Clear statement of financial responsibility and authority.
*  Ensure that the cost of resettlement is included in the overall project costs.
*  Identify components, if any, to be funded by donors such as the World Bank,
JICA, NORAD, DANIDA, etc.
*  Resettlement costs should be a part of annual involvement plans.
*  Prepare a cost-wise, item-wise budget estimate for the entire direction of
resettlement implementation, including administrative expense, monitoring
and evaluation and contingencies.
*  List the sources of funds and describe the flow of funds.
29



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
* Describe the specific mechanisms to adjust cost estimates by the inflation
factor.
* Describe provisions to account for physical and price contingencies.
7 Participation and Consultation
*  Describe the process of consultation/participation in resettlement preparation
and planning.
*  Describe the various stakeholders.
*  Describe the plan for disseminating information to project affected persons
(PAPs), such as provisions for a booklet to inform PAPs and other
stakeholders.
*  Describe examples of outcomes of participation and consultation, such as how
local beneficiaries' views have influenced the design process, entitlements and
support mechanisms, or other issues.
*  Have workshops been conducted, or are they planned? Who are the
participants, and what are the expected outcomes?
Grievance Redress
*  Describe the step-by-step process for registering and addressing grievances
*  Provide specific details regarding registering complaints, response time,
communication modes, etc.
*  Describe the mechanism for appeal
*  Describe the provisions to approach civil courts in case other provisions fail.
30



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
-.Monitoring and evaluation
* Describe the internal monitoring process
* Define key monitoring indicators. Provide a list of monitoring indicators,
which would be used for internal monitoring.
* Describe institutional (including financial) arrangements.
* Describe frequency of reporting and content for internal monitoring.
* Describe process for integrating feedback from internal monitoring into
implementation.
* Describe financial arrangements for external monitoring and evaluation,
including process for awarding and maintenance of contracts for the duration
of resettlement.
* Describe methodology for external monitoring.
* Define key indicators for external monitoring, focussing on outputs and
impacts.
* Describe frequency of reporting and content for external monitoring.
* Describe process for integrating feedback from external monitoring into
implementation.
Annex 11.3. WORLD BANK OPERATIONAL POLICY 4.12
This directive was prepared for the guidance of staff of the World Bank and is not
necessarily a complete treatment of the subjects covered.
OP 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement
Introduction
1. This directive describes Bankl policy and procedures on involuntary resettlement, as
well as the conditions that borrowers are expected to meet in operations involving
involuntary resettlement.2 Planning and financing resettlement components or free-
standing projects are an integral part of preparation for projects that cause involuntary
displacement. Any operation that involves land acquisition or is screened as a Category A
or B project for environmental assessment purposes3 should be reviewed for potential
resettlement requirements early in the project cycle (para. 20).
2. Development projects that displace people involuntarily4 generally give rise to severe
economic, social, and environmental problems: production systems are dismantled;
productive assets and income sources are lost; people are relocated to environments
where their productive skills may be less applicable and the competition for resources
greater; community structures and social networks are weakened; kin groups are
dispersed; and cultural identity, traditional authority, and the potential for mutual help are
diminished. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe long-term hardship,
impoverishment, and environmental damage unless appropriate measures are carefully
planned and carried out.5
31



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
Policy Objectives
3. The objective of the Bank's resettlement policy is to ensure that the population
displaced by a project receives benefits from it. Involuntary resettlement is an integral
part of project design and should be dealt with from the earliest stages of project
preparation (Para. 28), taking into account the following policy considerations:
(a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided or minimized where feasible, exploring all
viable alternative project designs. For example, realignment of roads or reductions in dam
height may significantly reduce resettlement needs.
(b) Where displacement is unavoidable, resettlement plans should be developed. All
involuntary resettlement should be conceived and executed as development programs,
with resettlers provided sufficient investment resources and opportunities to share in
project benefits. Displaced persons should be (i) compensated for their losses at full
replacement cost prior to the actual move; (ii) assisted with the move and supported
during the transition period in the resettlement site; and (iii) assisted in their efforts to
improve their former living standards, income earning capacity, and production levels, or
at least to restore them. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of the poorest
groups to be resettled.
(c) Community participation in planning and implementing resettlement should be
encouraged. Appropriate patterns of social organization should be established, and
existing social and cultural institutions of resettlers and their hosts6 should be supported
and used to the greatest extent possible.
(d) Resettlers should be integrated socially and economically into host communities so
that adverse impacts on host communities are minimized. The best way of achieving this
integration is for resettlement to be planned in areas benefiting from the project and
through consultation with the future hosts.
(e) Land, housing, infrastructure, and other compensation should be provided to the
adversely affected population, indigenous groups, 7 ethnic minorities, and pastoralists
who may have usufruct or customary rights to the land or other resources taken for the
project. The absence of legal title to land by such groups should not be a bar to
compensation.
Resettlement Planning
4. Where large-scale8 population displacement is unavoidable, a detailed resettlement
plan, timetable, and budget are required. Resettlement plans should be built around a
development strategy and package aimed at improving or at least restoring the economic
base for those relocated. Experience indicates that cash compensation alone is normally
inadequate. Voluntary settlement may form part of a resettlement plan, provided
measures to address the special circumstances of involuntary resettlers are included.
Preference should be given to land-based resettlement strategies for people dislocated
from agricultural settings. If suitable land is unavailable, nonland-based strategies built
around opportunities for employment or self-employment may be used.
Plan Content
5. The content and level of detail of resettlement plans, which will vary with
circumstances, especially the magnitude of resettlement, should normally include a
32



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
statement of objectives and policies, an executive summary, and provision for the
following:
(a) organizational responsibilities (para. 6);
(b) community participation and integration with host populations (paras. 7-10);
(c) socioeconomic survey (para. 11);
(d) legal framework (para. 12);
(e) alternative sites and selection (para. 13);
(f) valuation of and compensation for lost assets (paras. 14-16);
(g) land tenure, acquisition, and transfer (para. 17);
(h) access to training, employment, and credit (para. 18);
(i) shelter, infrastructure, and social services (para. 19);
(j) environmental protection and management (para. 20); and
(k) implementation schedule, monitoring, and evaluation (paras. 21-22).
Cost estimates should be prepared for these activities, and they should be budgeted and
scheduled in coordination with the physical works of the main investment project.
Organizational Responsibilities
6. The responsibility for resettlement rests with the borrower. The organizational
framework for managing resettlement must be developed during preparation and
adequate resources provided to the responsible institutions. The organization responsible
for resettlement should be strengthened when entities executing infrastructure or other
sector- specific projects lack the experience and outlook needed to design and implement
resettlement. One alternative is to create a special resettlement unit within the project
entity: this can facilitate the involvement of other line agencies. Another alternative is to
entrust resettlement to the regional or town administration that knows the population and
area, can mobilize local expertise, speaks the resettlers' language, and will ultimately be
responsible for the integration of resettlers into the host population and area. There also
may be considerable scope for involving, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in
planning, implementing, and monitoring resettlement.9
Community Participation and Integration with Host Population
7. Most displaced people prefer to move as part of a preexisting community,
neighborhood, or kinship group. The acceptability of a resettlement plan can be increased
and the disruption caused by resettlement can be cushioned by moving people in groups,
reducing dispersion, sustaining existing patterns of group organization, and retaining
access to cultural property 0 (temples, pilgrimage centers, etc.), if necessary, through the
relocation of the property.
8. The involvement of involuntary resettlers and hosts in planning prior to the move is
critical. Initial resistance to the idea of involuntary resettlement is to be expected. To
obtain cooperation, participation, and feedback, the affected hosts and resettlers need to
be systematically informed and consulted during preparation of the resettlement plan
about their options and rights. They should also be able to choose from a number of
acceptable resettlement alternatives. These steps can be taken directly or through formal
and informal leaders and representatives. Experience has shown that local NGOs can
33



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
often provide valuable assistance and ensure viable community participation. Moreover,
institutionalized arrangements, such as regular meetings between project officials and
communities, should be provided for resettlers and hosts to communicate their concerns
about the resettlement program to project staff throughout planning and imple-
mentation. 11 Particular attention must be given to ensure that vulnerable groups such as
indigenous people, ethnic minorities, the landless, and women are represented adequately
in such arrangements.
9. The plan should address and mitigate resettlement's impact on host populations. Host
communities and local governments should be informed and consulted. Any payment due
the hosts for land or other assets provided to resettlers should be promptly rendered.
Conflicts between hosts and resettlers may develop as increased demands are placed on
land, water, forests, services, etc., or if the resettlers are provided services and housing
superior to that of the hosts. Conditions and services in host communities should
improve, or at least not deteriorate. Providing improved education, water, health, and
production services to both groups fosters a better social climate for their integration. In
the long run, the extra investment will help prevent conflicts and secure the project's
aims.
10. Successful resettlement requires a timely transfer of responsibility from settlement
agencies to the settlers themselves. Otherwise, a dependency relationship may arise, and
agency resources may become tied up in a limited number of continually supervised
schemes. Local leadership must be encouraged to assume responsibility for
environmental management and infrastructure maintenance.
Socioeconomic Survey
11. Resettlement plans should be based on recent information about the scale and impact
of resettlement on the displaced population. In addition to describing standard household
characteristics, socioeconomic surveys should describe (a) the magnitude of
displacement; (b) information on the full resource base of the affected population,
including income derived from informal sector and nonfarm activities, and from common
property; (c) the extent to which groups will experience total or partial loss of assets; (d)
public infrastructure and social services that will be affected; (e) formal and informal
institutions (such as community organizations, ritual groups, etc.) that can assist with
designing and implementing the resettlement programs; and (f) attitudes on resettlement
options. Socioeconomic surveys, recording the names of affected families, should be
conducted as early as possible to prevent inflows of population ineligible for
compensation.
Legal Framework
12. A clear understanding of the legal issues involved in resettlement is needed to design
a feasible resettlement plan. An analysis should be made to determine the nature of the
legal framework for the resettlement envisaged, including (a) the scope of the power of
eminent domain, the nature of compensation associated with it, both in terms of the
valuation methodology and the timing of payment; (b) the legal and administrative
34



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
procedures applicable, including the appeals process and the normal time-frame for such
procedures; (c) land titling and registration procedures; and (d) laws and regulations
relating to the agencies responsible for implementing resettlement and those related to
land compensation, consolidation, land use, environment, water use, and social welfare.
Alternative Sites and Selection
13. The identification of several possible relocation sites and the demarcation of selected
sites is a critical step for both rural and urban resettlement. For land-based resettlement,
the new site's productive potential and location advantages should be at least equivalent
to those of the old site. The Bank encourages "land for land" approaches, providing
replacement land at least equivalent to the lost land. For rural settlers, irrigation, land
reclamation, tree crop development, intensification of production, and other innovations
often can provide adequate production potential on limited amounts of land to resettle
agriculturalists, even in countries with high population densities. In selecting sites,
attention must be paid to the availability of sources of off-farm income (fishing, gathering
forest products, seasonal wage employment) to complement farm income. For urban
resettlers, the new site should ensure comparable access to employment, infrastructure,
services, and production opportunities. For both rural and urban resettlement, the
borrower needs to (a) develop institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and
preparing relocation sites, e.g., pooling together small plots, wasteland reclamation, land
leveling, and terracing; (b) draw up timetables and budgets for site preparation and
transfer; (c) make legal arrangements for transferring titles to resettlers; and (d) consider,
when necessary, a temporary freeze on land transactions within the relocation area to
prevent land speculation. Though the Bank does not normally disburse against land
acquisition, it can finance land improvement to accommodate resettlers.
Valuation of and Compensation for Lost Assets
14. Valuation of lost assets should be made at their replacement cost. Compensation is
facilitated by (a) paying special attention to the adequacy of the legal arrangements
concerning land title, registration, and site occupation; (b) publicizing among people to
be displaced the laws and regulations on valuation and compensation; (c) establishing
criteria for determining the resettlement eligibility of affected households, e.g., house-
holds that have only partially lost their assets but are no longer economically viable
should be entitled to full resettlement; and (d) developing mechanisms to prevent illegal
encroachers and squatters, including an influx of nonresidents entering to take advantage
of such benefits, from participating in the compensation arrangements, by an early
recording of the numbers and names of affected populations entitled to compensation/
rehabilitation.
15. Some types of loss, such as access to (a) public services; (b) customers and suppliers;
and (c) fishing, grazing, or forest areas, cannot easily be evaluated or compensated for in
monetary terms. Attempts must therefore be made to establish access to equivalent and
culturally acceptable resources and earning opportunities.
35



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
16. Vulnerable groups at particular risk are indigenous people, the landless and semi
landless, and households headed by females who, though displaced, may not be protected
through national land compensation legislation. The resettlement plan must include land
allocation or culturally acceptable alternative income-earning strategies to protect the
livelihood of these people.
Land Tenure, Acquisition, and Transfer
17. Resettlement plans should review the main land tenure and transfer systems,
including common property and nontitle-based usufruct systems governed by locally
recognized land allocation mechanisms. The objective is to treat customary and formal
rights as equally as possible in devising compensation rules and procedures. The plan
should address the issues raised by the different tenure systems found in a project area,
including (a) the compensation eligibility of land-dependent populations; (b) the
valuation procedures applicable to different tenure types; and (c) the grievance
procedures available for disputes over land acquisition. Plans should contain provisions
for conducting land surveys and regularizing land tenure in the earliest stages of project
development. Planning should also anticipate the approximate time needed to acquire and
transfer land.
Access to Training, Employment, and Credit
18. Normally, general economic growth cannot be relied upon to protect the welfare of
the project-affected population. Thus, alternative employment strategies are needed for
nonagricultural displaced people, or where the land that can be made available is not
sufficient to accommodate all the displaced farmers. The resettlement plan should, where
feasible, exploit new economic activities made possible by the main investment requiring
the displacement. Vocational training, employment counseling, transportation to jobs,
employment in the main investment project or in resettlement activities, establishment of
industries, incentives for firms to locate in the area, credit and extension for small
businesses or reservoir aquaculture, and preference in public sector employment should
all be considered where appropriate.
Shelter, Infrastructure, and Social Services
19. To ensure the economic and social viability of the relocated communities, adequate
resources should be allocated to provide shelter, infrastructure (e.g., water supply, feeder
roads), and social services (e.g., schools, health care centers).12 Site development,
engineering, and architectural designs should be prepared for shelter, infrastructure, and
social services. Since community or self-built houses are often better accepted and more
tailored to the resettlers' needs than contractor-built housing, provision of a building site
with suitable infrastructure, model plans, building materials, technical assistance, and
"construction allowances" (for income foregone while resettlers build their houses) is an
option communities should be offered. Planning for shelter, infrastructure, and services
should take into account population growth.
Environmental Protection and Management
20. The screening process for an environmental assessment (EA) normally classifies
projects involving involuntary resettlement as Category A. 13 The EA of the main
36



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
investment requiring the resettlement should thus cover the potential environmental
impacts of the resettlement. The resettlement plan must be developed in coordination
with the EA and define the boundaries of the relocation area, and calculate incremental
population density per land unit. In agricultural projects (involving, for example,
relocation to the catchment surrounding a reservoir, or to a downstream command area),
if the incoming resettled population is large in relation to the host population, such
environmental issues as deforestation, overgrazing, soil erosion, sanitation, and pollution
are likely to become serious and plans should either include appropriate mitigating
measures, including training of oustees, or else should allow for alternative sites to be
selected. Urban resettlement raises other density-related issues (e.g., transportation
capacity, access to potable water, sanitation systems, health facilities, etc.). Constructive
environmental management, provided through the EA's mitigation plan, 14 may provide
good opportunities and benefits to resettlers and host populations alike (e.g., project-
financed compensatory forestation not only replaces the forests submerged by reservoirs
but also offers gainful employment). If the likely consequences on the environment are
unacceptable, alternative and/or additional relocation sites must be found.
Implementation Schedule, Monitoring, and Evaluation
21. The timing of resettlement should be coordinated with the implementation of the
main investment component of the project requiring the resettlement. All resettlement
plans should include an implementation schedule for each activity covering initial
baseline and preparation, actual relocation, and post-relocation economic and social
activities. The plan should include a target date when the expected benefits to resettlers
and hosts would be achieved.
22. Arrangements for monitoring implementation of resettlement and evaluating its
impact should be developed by the borrower during project preparation and used during
supervision. 15 Monitoring provides both a warning system for project managers and a
channel for the resettlers to make known their needs and their reactions to resettlement
execution. Monitoring and evaluation units should be adequately funded and staffed by
specialists in resettlement. In-house monitoring by the implementing agency may need to
be supplemented by independent monitors to ensure complete and objective information.
Annual and midterm reviews are desirable for large-scale resettlement. The borrower
should be required to continue impact evaluation for a reasonable period after all
resettlement and related development activities have been completed. The borrower
should also be required to inform the Bank about the findings.
Bank Role and Project Options
23. The Bank supports borrowers' efforts through (a) assistance in designing and
assessing resettlement policy, strategies, laws, regulations, and specific plans; (b)
financing technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of agencies responsible for
resettlement; and (c) direct financing of the investment costs of resettlement. The Bank
may sometimes finance resettlement even though it has not financed the main investment
that made displacement and resettlement necessary (para. 26).
37



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
24. The task manager (TM) should inform the borrower of the Bank's resettlement policy.
Starting early in the project cycle, the TM with the support of Bank operational, research,
and legal staff should assess government policies, experiences, institutions, and the legal
framework covering resettlement. In particular, the TM needs to ensure that involuntary
resettlement is avoided or minimized, that laws and regulations concerning displaced
people provide compensation sufficient to replace all lost assets, and that displaced
persons are assisted to improve, or at least restore, their former living standards, income
earning capacity, and production levels.
25. The adequacy of the resettlement plan should be reviewed by appropriate social,
technical, and legal experts. Resettlement specialists should visit the possible resettlement
sites and review their suitability. In the case of large-scale relocation, such experts should
be included in independent technical or environmental review boards. 16
26. Bank financing of resettlement can be provided as follows: (a) As a component of the
main investment project causing displacement and requiring resettlement. (b) If large
enough, as a freestanding resettlement project with appropriate cross-conditionalities,
processed and implemented in parallel with the investment project that causes the
displacement. The latter approach may better focus country and Bank attention on the
effective resolution of resettlement issues. (c) As a sector investment loan. 17 Where the
specific resettlement needs of each subproject are not known in advance, the borrower
would need to agree to resettlement policies, planning principles, institutional
arrangements, and design criteria that meet Bank policy and requirements as a condition
of the loan. An estimate should be provided of total population to be displaced and
overall resettlement costs, as well as an evaluation of proposed resettlement sites.
Subprojects in sector investment loans should be screened by the implementing agency to
ensure consistency with this directive, and approved individually by the Bank. For
countries with a series of operations requiring resettlement, efforts to improve the policy,
institutional, and legal framework for resettlement should form part of the Bank's
ongoing country and sector dialogue with the government. These efforts should be
appropriately reflected in economic and sector work and in country strategy papers and
briefs.
Processing and Documentation
27. The Regional Vice President (RVP) should be kept informed of major resettlement
issues, and his guidance sought where necessary. The Regional Environment Division
(RED), the Legal Department (LEG), and settlement specialists in Sector Policy and
Research (PRS) should be consulted or included as necessary in peer reviews on
involuntary resettlement issues throughout the project cycle.
Identification
28. The possibility of involuntary resettlement should be determined as early as possible
and described in all project documents. The TM should (a) briefly summarize in the
Initial Executive Project Summary (Initial EPS) 18 the magnitude, strategy, and timing of
the resettlement; (b) inform borrowers of the Bank's resettlement policy; (c) review past
borrower experience with similar operations; (d) invite agencies responsible for
38



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
resettlement to discuss their policies, plans, and institutional, consultative, and legal
arrangements for resettlement; and (e) where appropriate, ensure that technical assistance
is pro-vided early to borrowers. Such assistance should include the use of project
preparation facility (PPF) resources 19 for planning resettlement and building institutional
capacity.
Preparation
29. During project preparation, the feasibility of resettlement must be established, a
strategy agreed upon, the resettlement plan drafted, and budget estimates prepared.20 The
full costs of resettlement should be identified and included in the total cost of the main
investment project, regardless of financing source. The costs of resettlement should also
be treated as a charge against the economic benefits of the investment project that causes
the relocation. Any net benefits to resettles (as compared to the "without project"
circumstances) should be added to the benefit stream of the main investment. While the
resettlement component or freestanding project need not be economically viable on its
own, it should be the least- cost approach consistent with the policies laid out above.
Appraisal and Negotiation
30. Submission to the Bank of a time-bound resettlement plan and budget that conforms
to Bank policy is a condition of appraisal for projects involving resettlement, except for
sector investment loans as discussed in para. 26. All final EPSs should confirm that this
requirement has been met. The appraisal mission should ascertain (a) the extent that
involuntary resettlement and human hardship will be minimized and whether borrowers
can manage the process; (b) the adequacy of the plan, including the timetable and budget
for resettlement and compensation; (c) the soundness of the economic and financial
analysis; (d) the availability and adequacy of sites and funding for all resettlement
activities; (e) the feasibility of the implementation arrangements; and (f) the extent of
involvement of beneficiaries. At negotiations, the borrower and the Bank should agree on
the resettlement plan. The resettlement plan and the borrower's obligation to carry it out
should be reflected in the legal documents. Other necessary resettlement-related actions
must be covenanted. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President should summarize the plan and state that it meets Bank
policy requirements.
Implementation and Supervision
31. Resettlement components should be supervised throughout implementation.21
Supervision that is sporadic or left until late in implementation invariably jeopardizes the
success of resettlement. Bank supervision missions should be staffed with the requisite
social, economic, and technical expertise. Annual reviews of large-scale resettlement and
in-depth Bank reviews of midterm progress are highly desirable. These reviews should be
planned from the outset to allow the Bank and the borrower to make necessary
adjustments in project implementation. Complete recovery from resettlement can be
protracted and can often make it necessary to continue Bank supervision until well after
populations have been relocated, sometimes even after a project has been closed.
Ex Post Evaluation
39



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
32. The project completion report22 submitted to the Operations Evaluation Department
should evaluate resettlement and its impact on the standards of living of the resettles and
the host population.
1. "Bank" includes IDA, and "loans" includes credits.
2. See also Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank Technical
Paper No. 80 (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1988).
3. OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, para. 18.
4. Such projects may include construction or establishment of (a) dams, (b) new towns or
ports, (c) housing and urban infrastructure, (d) mines, (e) large industrial plants, (f)
railways or highways, (g) irrigation canals, and (h) national parks or protected areas.
Refugees from natural disasters, war, or civil strife are also involuntary resettlers, but
they are not discussed in this directive (see OP/BP/GP 8.50, Emergency Recovery
Assistance).
5. OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, para. 2, and Annex A3.
6. Host communities are those receiving resettlers.
7. See OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
8. Where only a few people (e.g., less than 100-200 individuals) are to be relocated,
appropriate compensation for assets, logistical support for moving, and a relocation grant
may be the only requirements. However, the principles on which compensation is to be
based are the same as for larger groups.
9. See GP 14.70, Involving Nongovernmental Organizations in Bank-Supported
Activities.
10. See OPN 11.03, Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects, to be
reissued as OP/BP 4.11, Cultural Property.
11. Disputes of varying kinds may arise in the process of implementation of the agreed
resettlement plan. These conflicts could take the form of appeals related to the
compensation payable to affected persons, conflicts between the displaced persons and
the host population, appeals to the agency charged with the implementation of the
resettlement with regard to services promised, etc. It is therefore important to devise
schemes for conflict resolution for all resettlement plans. Such schemes should, as far as
possible, take into account existing procedures for settling disputes in the country or area
concerned.
12. Health care services, particularly for pregnant women, infants, and the elderly, may
be important during and after relocation to prevent increases in morbidity and mortality
due to malnutrition, the stress of being uprooted, and the usually increased risk of water-
borne diseases.
13. See OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, and Annex B, Environmental
Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects. The environmental implications of involuntary
resettlement will be further discussed under para 6.0, "Special Issues in Environmental
Assessment," in Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, (Washington, D.C.: The World
Bank, to be issued).
14. See Annex Al, para. 2, in OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment.
15. See OD 10.70, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
16. See OD 4.00, Annex B, Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects.
40



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
17. See OP/BP 10.00, Investment Lending: Identification to Board Presentation.
18. See OP/BP 8.10, Project Preparation Facility.
19. Detailed guidelines for preparing and appraising resettlement plans are provided in
Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank Technical Paper No. 80,
Annex 1 (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1988). Pro forma cost tables and
guidelines for economic and financial analysis are provided in Annex 2.
20. See OD 13.05, Project Supervision, particularly paras. 44-47.
21. See OP/BP/ 13.55, Implementation Completion Reporting.
Annex 11.4. METHODS OF VALUATION FOR STRUCTURES, LAND, TREES AND
OTHER ASSETS
Example 1:A
* Determining replacement cost in countries with active land markets: Determining
replacement cost of affected land can be relatively easy where active land markets exist (for
example, in most regions of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Thailand). In projects located in
these areas, RAPs should include land market surveys. Private and independent real estate
agencies, banks, or mortgage firms could be engaged to determine market prices for land, or to
evaluate the adequacy of administratively set compensation. If Borrowers refuse to engage
private professional agencies, or if legal restrictions preclude payment of fair market prices,
solatiums, relocation or subsistence allowances, or other forms of cash assistance can be used to
"top up" compensation to replacement cost levels. Alternatively, committees including PAPs or
NGO representatives can be formed to participate in establishing land valuation, and helping
PAPs to identify and purchase replacement land.
Example l.B
* Determining replacement cost in countries with "mixed" land markets and property
systems: In some Borrower Countries (notably Indonesia and the Philippines), or in particular
regions within Borrower Countries, formal property titling remains incomplete, leaving a
complex melange of competing legal and customary claims upon land (see also Customary
Claims and Common Property). In Indonesia, for example, untitled land continues to exist even in
downtown Jakarta, with titled land valued 10-60% higher. In areas lacking coherent and
integrated property systems, resource valuations may differ substantially and some property
claims are likely to go unrecognised. Hence, establishing replacement cost requires much greater
attention to the type of title and usage rights held by affected persons. And projects acquiring land
in such areas should encourage vigorous information disclosure, negotiation or arbitration
procedures, and independent grievance mechanisms.
Precedents in Practice
In the Philippines. resettlement plans for the Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project
(Ln.3746) called for negotiated settlements on land acquisition between PAPs and the
National Power Corporation. In the event agreement could not be reached,
compensation disputes would be addressed by an Independent Appraisal Committee,
consisting of a real estate expert and representatives from the local land bank and the
Philippines National Bank.
Also in the Philippines. PAPs in the Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project
(Ln.3996) could choose between compensation as evaluated by an independent
appraiser or replacement land provided by the project.
41



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
In Indonesia. resettlement plans for the pending Second Sulawesi Urban
Development Project would give PAPs with insecure tenure (and those now in rental
housing) tenurial rights in developed house plots that cannot be sold for at least 10
years.
Example 1:C
* Determining replacement cost in countries lacking land markets: Though both Vietnam
and China are experimenting with mechanisms to increase individual or household tenure, land
remains collectively or publicly owned and cannot be alienated. In China, the Bank accepts
country practice of compensating the collectivities rather than affected households for
expropriated land. (Affected households, in tum, receive replacement land or other forms of
rehabilitation assistance from collectives or local authorities.) In Vietnam, by contrast, affected
households often are directly compensated for loss of use of land. In the absence of land markets,
replacement cost in these countries needs to be linked to the productive value of the affected land.
Precedents in Practice
In China, compensation for expropriated rural land is calculated as a multiplier
(usually 3-6) of the average annual value of agricultural production over the
preceding three years. Some project plans, gradually increase the multiplier to favour
smaller average landholdings in affected villages. An additional resettlement
"subsidy" (allowance) for the people who need to be economically rehabilitated is
also paid (and also is calculated as a multiplier). Where PAPs are relocated from one
local jurisdictional unit to another, compensation and rehabilitation packages can be
split among both. In some projects, the original unit of residence is compensated for
loss of land while the unit of relocation receives rehabilitation assistance for
providing alternative lands, jobs, or commercial opportunities. In the Xiaolangdi
Resettlement Project (Cr.2605), however, all compensation and rehabilitation
assistance goes to the local unit in the area of relocation; if collectives lose both land
and PAPs they receive no compensation. National law limits combined compensation
for land and economic rehabilitation to no more than 20 times the average annual
productive value of the acquired land.
In Vietnam. an emerging market permits land use rights to be bought and sold at
highly fluctuating prices. Compensation rates payable in cash to project affected
households were introduced by national decree (87-CP) in 1994, which sets
minimum and maximum prices for various categories of land. The prices established
in this decree are set administratively and may not represent replacement cost. Bank
experience in Vietnam so far has mainly focused on the land-for-land option for
people losing more than 20% of their total holding, and cash compensation for people
losing less than 20%. New laws also allow for outright ownership (and alienation) of
house plots up to 200 square meters in size. The Irrigation Rehabilitation.Project
(Cr.271 1) provides 60% of replacement cost for non-owned homesteads (plus full
compensation for the house or other structures) to be used for purchase of privately
owned homesteads. In all instances, compensation is to be sufficient to purchase a
200-square-meter parcel. The conversion from use rights to outright, alienable
ownership is considered as contributing to replacement cost.
Example 2: Method of Valuation for Structures, Land, Trees and other Assets,
42



Lake Chad - Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
Replacement Cost for Structures
* Schedule of rates obtained from the infrastructure department: The infrastructure
construction departments in all countries have a schedule of rates for preparing estimates for
construction projects, which Borrower agencies themselves use to assess costs for construction
materials and labour. When applied to calculation of replacement cost, rates current for the period
of actual replacement must be used.
* Rates quoted by contractors for similar structures in other construction projects /
programs: Where rate schedules do not exist or are out of date, recent quotations by contractors
for similar types of construction in the vicinity of the project can be used for calculating
replacement cost. In projects offering the options of cash compensation or alternative
accommodation, the construction cost estimates for alternative accommodation could be used for
calculating cash compensation payable.
Example 3: Method of Valuation for Structures, Land, Trees and other Assets,
Replacement Cost for Land - Replacement cost for other assets
* For public infrastructure: in-kind replacement under force account within an agreed time
schedule, or full compensation to the agency replacing the service is required.
*  For cultural property and community-owned facilities: in-kind replacement or compensation
at replacement cost for land and structures (e.g., religious churches, mosques, temples, or shrines;
private or community-operated schools; village meeting houses; local libraries).
* For cash crops: Arrangements should be made to allow for harvest or market value should be
paid for lost cash crops. In some countries average annual market value of crops for the previous
3 years is deemed appropriate as crop compensation. Compensation for subsistence crops can be
in-kind, or can be an amount of cash sufficient to purchase equivalent supplies.
*  For trees: Where markets do not provide sufficient information about the value of fruit or
timber, compensation for fruit-bearing and non-fruit-bearing trees should be at net present value
calculated for the productive life. In the case of immature trees, a less costly alternative may be to
directly replace seedlings.
Other assets: Tubewells, graves, fishponds, poultry houses, fences, and other tangible assets
should be replaced in kind (or with functional equivalents), relocated, or be compensated at
replacement cost.
43



