Report No. PID9666
Project Name                      Africa Region-Reversal of Land and Water Degradation(@)
Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Natural Resources Management
Project ID                        3APE70252
Grantee                           Lake Chad Basin Commission
C/o Executive Secretary, Muhammed Sani
Adamu
B.P. 727
N'Djamena, Chad
Email:   lcbc@intnet.td
Executing Agency                  UNOPS
Environment Category              B
Date this PID prepared            March 18, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date          April 18, 2002
Projected Board Date              July 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background:
Lake Chad is Africa's fourth largest lake, the largest in
Western and Central Africa. Its basin constitutes an important
freshwater source shared by Cameroon, the Central African
Republic (CAR), Chad, Niger, Nigeria, and Sudan. The lake is
fed by the Chari River, which flows northward from the highlands
of CAR through to southern Chad, supplies approximately 95
percent of the lake's surface water input. Likewise, the
Komadougou-Yobe surface water system which flows from northern
Nigeria into Chad, is considered to be of minor significance to
the whole of the basin, yet locally significant to the northern
reaches of the Lake Chad wetlands.    The lake is shallow, with an
average depth of 1.5 meters, and is of relatively small volume.
The lake is subject to considerable evaporation and yet is not
saline.
Surface area of Lake Chad varies considerably, from 2,000 to
25,000 square kilometers in the past 30 years. Indeed, the lake
dried out completely in the late 1400s but returned to high
levels by the 1600s. Overall lake balance is based on a close
interaction between rainfall, evaporation, lateral groundwater
flow to the lake, and groundwater recharge under the body of the
lake. The most significant feature of the lake balance has been
the persistent decline in rainfall over the whole of the basin
in the last 30 years. Isohytal contours of mean rainfall have
shifted southward by an order of several hundred kilometers,
with river runoffs, effluent groundwater flows, and flow
thresholds reduced.



Close to 20 million people rely on lake-based economic
activities; this is expected to increase to 35 million by the
year 2020. Important wetlands and floodplains extend outward
from the lake itself, expanding the basin to the second largest
wetland in sub-Saharan Africa. The lake, its floodplains, and
surrounding wetlands support recessional agriculture,
pastoralism, forest regeneration, fish breeding and production,
and limited tourism. The basin has also been identified as
supporting biodiversity of global significance, with numerous
bird species relying on the lake for sustenance during periods
of migration.
In 1964, the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) was established
by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria to handle problems of
development centered on Lake Chad. At that time, the
'conventional basin' covered approximately 427,000 square
kilometers. In 1994, the 'basin' was enlarged to include the
upstream part of the basins of the Logone-Chari and Komadougou
systems, and thus CAR was admitted as the fifth member country
of the LCBC. In 2002, Sudan was added as a sixth member due to
aquifers underlying its western border shared with Chad. The
'new conventional basin', which covers 967,000 square
kilometers, now takes into account almost all water resources
that supply the lake, its floodplains and wetlands, and aquifers
in the lake area.
The LCBC, established in 1964, was substantially reformed in
1990, enlarged in 1994 with the addition of CAR as fifth member
country, and enlarged again in 2000 to include Sudan. Its
current budget consists of contributions from five member
countries in the following proportions: Cameroon 26 percent, CAR
4 percent, Chad 11 percent, Niger 7 percent and Nigeria 52
percent. Historically, the Executive Secretary is Nigerian,
nominated by the Nigerian government and endorsed by the LCBC
member countries. Muhammed Sani Adamu is the current Executive
Secretary; the outgoing Executive Secretary, Abubakar Jauro,
served for twelve years.
The role of the LCBC has been to ensure the most efficient use
of the basin's waters, to coordinate regional (as opposed to
national) development, and to assist in the settlement of
disputes that might arise between and among the basin states.
The LCBC mandate recognises that member countries retain
sovereign rights to develop water resources within their
jurisdiction, with the exception of Lake Chad itself, where
unilateral exploitation of lake surface resources is forbidden.
Member states retain the right to plan water development
projects in the area of the "new conventional basin", provided
that they consult fellow LCBC member countries through the LCBC.
Potential development projects are to be screened to prevent the
implementation of any measures likely to alter the lake's water
balance, its exploitation by other riparians, its water quality,
and the biological characteristics of flora and fauna in the
region.
-2-



The LCBC, with the assistance of UNEP, the United Nations
Sudano-Sahelian Office (UNSO) and the Food and Agriculture
Organisation (FAO), carried out a series of diagnostic
environmental studies in the 1980s, resulting in a Lake Chad
"Master Plan", which was finalised in 1992 and ratified by the
LCBC Heads of State in 1994. This plan is based on the much
smaller 'conventional' basin and does not address transboundary
issues as necessary for GEF project intervention. The plan
includes a list of 36 priority projects, many of which have yet
to be undertaken and are as relevant today as upon ratification.
2. Project Objectives:
The project has three objectives. The first is to overcome
barriers to the concerted management of the basin through
enhanced collaboration and capacity building among riparians and
stakeholders. The second is to complete a transboundary
diagnostic analysis (TDA) and prepare a descriptive framework
for the concerted water management across the basin. The third
is to prepare a strategic action plan (SAP) for the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) for long-term implementation of
priority actions to address transboundary issues.
3. Rationale for World Bank Group Involvement:
The World Bank's most visible effort in the Lake Chad basin is
providing support to the Chad-Cameroon petroleum pipeline
several lending vehicles. Petroleum production facilities are
located in Doba, which lies within Logone floodplains, which
provide surface water flow into Lake Chad. Both the Petroleum
Sector Management Capacity Building Project in Chad and the
Petroleum Environmental Capacity Enhancement Project in Cameroon
are to contribute to improved national capacity in management of
environmental aspects of petroleum projects. Once these
environmental ministries are considerably strengthened, they
should be able to support a more concerted land and water
management initiative in the greater Lake Chad basin. An IDA-
financed rural development pilot is in project preparation
stage, as is a community-driven development approach to all Bank
interventions currently under preparation.
Private sector support of environmental management in the Lake
Chad basin, independent of its coordination with the two
aforementioned Bank projects, is not anticipated. The few
large-scale mixed public-private commercial agricultural
activities in the Lake Chad basin are barely economically
feasible, and the outlook for further private sector investment
in commercial activities reliant on Lake Chad land and water
resources is poor.
The Bank is increasing its efforts in the environment and water
supply sectors at both state and federal levels in Nigeria and
is also supporting development of a national water resource
- 3 -



management strategy. There are several large urban water supply
projects with significant institutional reform and/or
restructuring components underway in both Niger and Nigeria.
The Niger Water Sector Project, includes a water resource
management element that may lead to several water resource
management institutional reforms.
World Bank activity in Cameroon, the Central African Republic
(CAR), and Chad has been at a relatively low level in terms of
absolute funding in the last decade. It is expected that entry
into these countries via a multi-country vehicle such as this
might be a good way to re-establish contact in water resource /
environment sectors.
This project is one of a cohort of three GEF projects under
development in the region. A separate GEF project now in PDF-B
phase in the Niger River Basin in cooperation with the Niger
Basin Authority includes two of the members of the LCBC, Niger
and Nigeria, as well as seven others, and will engage
transboundary issues the length of the Niger.   Similarly, there
is a GEF project in PDF-B phase in the Senegal River Basin in
collaboration with the Governments of Senegal, Mauritania, Mali,
and Guinea. Each of these three projects is being prepared
under co-implementation with the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) in order to build on complementarities and to
be able to attract as much additional donor support as possible.
The Lake Chad surface body itself, as well as the surface rivers
and ground aquifers which feed into it, sustain the livelihood
of millions of people who live in and around it. The Global
Environment Facility and several non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) have started the process of reinvigorating the Lake
through community mobilization and shoreline protection and
management. The Bank has been approached to join this effort
and to lend its comparative advantage as an instrument for
policy dialogue and donor coordination.
4. Project Description:
The Bank part of the project has three outputs: Component 2
"enhanced regional policy initiatives and institutional
mechanisms to address transboundary issues"; Component 5
"several demonstration projects to test and validate
methodologies, stakeholder involvement and implementation
modalities"; and Component 6 "SAP designed and endorsed with
implementation methodologies validated and donor support
mobilized". UNDP is implementing three separate outputs as
follows: Component 1 "an established Program Co-ordination Unit
(PCU) and nominated lead agencies to drive and co-ordinate TDA
completion, pilot projects, policy initiatives and institutional
linkages"; Component 3 "strengthened engagement of
stakeholders"; Component 4 "a completed TDA and a synthetic
framework for concerted management of the basin", and Component
5 "several demonstration projects to test and validate
- 4 -



methodologies, stakeholder involvement and implementation
modalities."
With regards to the pilots within Component 5, the World Bank
working with the LCBC and its member states to implement three
pilots: the Lake Fitri pilot, the Komodougou-Yobe or Hadejia-
Nguru project, and the Waza-Logone project. Similarly, UNDP is
implementing three pilot projects, two of which have become
'twinned' for smoother execution arrangements: the Lake Chad
Shorelines project and the Niger-Chad northern basin project;
and, separately, the Chad-CAR (Chari) transboundary project.
For each project, execution arrangements are to be specified, as
World Bank and UNDP will not execute directly. The Hadejia-
Nguru and Waza-Logone are ongoing projects to which the GEF is
adding a specific value-added element, but the others are all to
be launched as new projects. Lastly, the World Bank has a small
element within Component 5 to bring lessons learned from the
pilot projects into the design of the SAP for the Lake Chad
Basin.
5. Financing Plan:
Total project cost is estimated at US$18,066,800, of which GEF
project financing is US$10,433,500, and project development
financing (PDF) is US$693,500. Total current co-financing is
US$7,293,300 from bilateral donors, LCBC and its member
countries. Co-financing figures are indicative of the
anticipated participation of on-going projects to related
activities of the GEF-financed project. As an example, UNDP is
funding in Chad US$2.6 million in water and land resource
projects. 10 percent of this amount will be directed toward
transboundary activities.
LCBC has an annual budget, funded by member states, of
US$1,180,000, of which LCBC has committed an equivalent
percentage to be applied over the lifetime of the project (thus
US$411,800). The contribution in kind, accepted by the six
governments through their on-going projects, represents a total
of US$1,750,000. In addition, the German cooperation agency
(BMZ) is funding LCBC's regional project, "Study of the Chari-
Logone Groundwater Resources" for an amount of US$617,600 and it
is expected that outputs of this project will be developed and
used by the GEF-financed project. The Netherlands through DGID
is providing co-financing of US$1,930,000, while the UK through
DFID is providing an additional US$2,078,900. Associated
capital and recurrent water sector investment in Lake Chad on
the part of the six member countries is estimated at more than
US$20 million.
6. Implementation Arrangements:
Direct and ongoing oversight of project activities will be the
responsibility of the executing agencies through the Project Co-
- 5 -



ordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will comprise a Project Manager,
Director of Administration and Finance, and requisite
administrative and secretarial support. Consultants will be
retained as necessary and priority will be given to the
recruitment of national consultants as available. The LCBC will
play a key and ongoing co-ordination role with and on behalf of
the participating countries. The LCBC will also be undertaking
the implementation of specific project activities. A co-
implementation Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be created.
The PSC will generally oversee project implementation
activities. Its membership will include representatives from
the LCBC member countries, the LCBC staff, participating GEF
implementing agencies, and the executing agency. The Project
Manager will also be a member of the Project Task Force, (PTF)
which will meet at the call of the Chair, who will be selected
by the PTF membership. Thematic and geographic Committees will
be created as necessary to continue and finalise development of
the TDA and the SAP.
The project will be implemented according to a provisional
workplan. The United Nations Office for Project Services
(UNOPS) will serve as the executing agency for UNDP and as such
be responsible for the PCU and its activities. World Bank
executing arrangements will be applied in the context of
national activities through its existing national projects and
offices. The executing agency role for UNOPS, working in close
collaboration with World Bank and UNDP country offices, will
assure that the technical assistance to the LCBC member
countries will continue and guarantee that the national and
regional priorities agreed by the riparian States are
substantively and coherently accommodated within the SAP.
Consistent with the comparative advantage of UNOPS, the project
will have direct links to the inter-governmental debate in the
Commission on Sustainable Development, the international
convention mechanisms of the UN Secretariat and important links
to other agencies implicated in land and water management.
The World Bank will collaborate in the important area of policy
reform in the participating countries, and bringing to bear its
strong technical presence at the national levels, and assist in
the identification of and actions leading to project related
investment follow-up. The role of UNDP will be to contribute
its on-the-ground strength and resulting trust it builds with
national governments, directly facilitate workshops and the
convening of key stakeholders consistent with its comparative
advantage in capacity building, work to secure national country-
based financial resources to complement project activities, and
provide important links to other UN agencies.
The respective Bank and UNDP task teams will be in direct and
ongoing contact to facilitate the work of the projects and to
ensure maximum levels of co-operation to bring about project
success. As an immediate step the implementing agencies will
compile their respective water activities within the project area
and suggest how these activities can contribute to the basin-wide
- 6 -



program. Specific additional joint activities will be sought and
acted upon by the respective task teams as the project is
finalized and implemented. As the pilot demonstration projects
constitute the country-identified most urgent priority actions,
and since successful country and LCBC efforts to implement these
priority actions are deemed necessary to build donor confidence
in the region, implementation of the pilot projects should begin
as soon as possible after project approval.
7. Sustainability:
The long term success of regional scale management programs,
such as the one proposed here depend, inter alia, on the
political willingness of the participating countries to co-
operate, their willingness to continue project programs and
approaches after the life of the GEF intervention, and the
extent to which activities successfully engage end users at the
community level.
In relation to political willingness, the level of project risk
is seen as moderate. The participating countries have few
economic resources, have witnessed recent national and regional
strife and, with the continuing drought, lack of donor support,
and short term priorities such as human health, education, basic
sanitation, and nutrition, it is difficult to create a focus on
what appears to be longer term environmental imperatives. This
situation is somewhat mitigated, however, by a growing
realisation on the part of the countries that environmental
sustainability is inextricably linked to food production,
tourism, sanitation, population movements, and thus regional
stability. This growing realisation has led the countries to
participate effectively in the work undertaken during the
Diagnostic Study, Master Plan, the PDF-B and PDF-C preparation
phases, and, subsequently, in other endeavours. There is
growing evidence to support a conclusion that the countries,
notwithstanding to focus on short term priorities at the expense
of environmental integrity, are increasingly committed to a
regional approach to shared environmental concerns as a means of
ensuring sustainability of their shared, fragile resources.
Political will and co-operation were expressed for the project
and its aims by country participation in and high level, formal
endorsement of the results of the Diagnostic Study, the Master
Plan, and the PDF-B developed Strategic Action Plan.
The risk of GEF project programs, and activities related to
them, ending after the life of the project are seen as moderate.
It is unlikely that the countries can, without greater donor
support than is now the case, sustain project efforts. The
ability of the countries, with GEF assistance, to solicit
enhanced donor support will be crucial to sustainability of
project efforts.
The financial commitment of governments is at this time largely
in-kind. There has been recent re-invigoration of donor
- 7 -



commitment to direct and related objectives of the GEF project
as evidenced by assistance from the German BMZ, the European
Union (EU), and Islamic Development Bank. Countries continue
their financial commitment to the LCBC and contribute 10 percent
or more to each project that has been the subject of donor
assistance. As the project is implemented, UNDP will consult on
an ongoing basis, with regard to the provision of resources
necessary to securing World Bank assistance to seek project-
related investment both during the project implementation period
and post-project. The World Bank will take the lead
implementing agency role in the organization of the donor
conferences.
8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:
The Lake Chad Basin GEF project is the first 'international
waters' focal area project in West and Central Africa. More
specifically, it is registered under Operational Program number
9, for Integrated Land and Water. Most of its learning is
coming in 'real-time' as cross-learning from the two like GEF
projects under preparation - the Niger River Basin and Senegal
River Basin GEF projects. The Lake Chad Basin Commission staff
members and LCBC Government GEF focal points also have been
given the opportunity to learn from consultants who have been
preparing pilot project components alongside the LCBC.
The current GEF project under preparation has learned
considerably from its long incubation phase. There are several
seminal studies on the institutional and hydrogeological history
of the LCBC and the conventional basin; the LCBC has a well-
organized library and its staff is well-versed in this
literature.
General lessons to acknowledge are: the need to build upon
national-level water resource and environmental management
institutional capacities first and foremost; set the full
project up so that there is some opportunity for 'results on the
ground' early on in order to stimulate interest; provide
sufficient opportunities for national interaction on technical
and political working committees in order to build communication
channels; blend hydrological and technical goals for success
with institutional goals for success and so forth.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention:
The Lake Chad Basin GEF project is not a program of targeted
intervention. Its aim is to decrease environmental degradation
in the Lake Chad basin, and thus indirectly foster positive
global and local externalities. As most, if not all, of the
residents of the Lake Chad basin are poor, then any benefits of
the project will accrue to the poor. However, these benefits
will not be targeted to poorer segments of the total beneficiary
population.
-8-



10. Environmental Aspects (including any public consultation):
Historically, the most pronounced feature of the Lake Chad Basin
has been its wetlands. Lake Chad itself is the second largest
wetland in Africa, and hosts biodiversity of global
significance. The richness of the basin's floodplains support a
wide range of economic activities - recession agriculture,
pastoralism, forest regeneration, fish breeding and production,
drought fallback security, and also have a potential for
tourism.
Because no species appear to be restricted to the lake,
regeneration of the fishery is possible as long as floodplain
habitat remains accessible and fishing is controlled,
particularly during dry periods when the stocks are more
vulnerable. For this reason the fish stocks have had the
capacity to rebound dramatically, even after the complete
disappearance of the surface Lake in the 15th century.
Recently, basin fisheries have suffered from a combination of
influences and practices that include drought, over-fishing,
diversion or blockage of instream flows, increased juvenile
catch through use of smaller mesh sizes, and the near complete
disappearance of the lake's northern basin. In addition to the
fishery, the basin contains other significant wildlife of
regional and global importance. Over 370 species of birds have
been inventoried in the basin, a third of the bird species being
migratory. Concerns for the health of existing birdlife include
a diminishment of nesting areas for the black-crowned crane and
wintering grounds for intercontinental migrants such as the
ruff.
Other wildlife species in the basin include the oryx, Damas
gazelle, Dorcas gazelle, slender-horned gazelle, elephants,
black rhinoceros, the Lake Lere manatee, and other water
dependent species such as crocodile, hippo, sitatunga and
waterbuck. Concerns about these species revolve around
poaching, the drought, and lack of trained cadre to protect,
maintain and restore certain species.
The Bureau of the RAMSAR Convention and the World Wild Fund for
Nature (WWF) are currently in the process of working with four
countries which share the shoreline of Lake Chad to ratify the
RAMSAR convention so that they can apply for designation as
RAMSAR-protected shoreline. The shoreline in Niger and the
Cameroonian shorelines have been designated, and the Nigerian
designation is in process. It is the intent of the Lake Chad
GEF project that a follow-up effort would be made to finance
preparation and implementation of a management plan for
protection of this transboundary shoreline for mutual benefit of
the inhabitants of the people and the flora and fauna present in
its waters.
An environmental and social assessment of the project was
-9-



completed in October 2001, in the field. Four environmental and
social safeguards were found to be pertinent: OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment, OP 4.04 Natural Habitats, OP 4.30 (and
OP/BP 4.12) Involuntary Resettlement, and OP 4.37 Dam Safety.
The report was finalized in November-December 2001, and
disclosed in January 2002. Subsequent to this report, in March
2002, a dam safety specialist visited the Maga Dam in the Waza
Logone pilot in Northern Cameroon, and the Tiga Dam and Challawa
Gorge within the Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project
site in Northern Nigeria. These reports were disclosed that
same month, in March 2002. The project is in the process of
disclosing an Environmental Action Plan, a Plan of Action, as
well as a Process Framework.
The stakeholders were consulted during site visits by the
consultants hired to prepare the initial technical demonstration
reports as well as when the environmental and social assessment
team travelled to the pilot project area in October 2001. For
the demonstration projects of Waza Logone and Hadejia-Nguru,
these are established projects with ongoing relationships
between communities and project teams. For the other four
proposed project sites, the following consultation mechanism was
used. Local NGO or governmental contacts were asked to set up
visit to representative sites, and then a small, joint LCBC-
World Bank-UNDP team would visit a community within the proposed
pilot project area to assess the community's interest in the
overall development objective; the proposed pilot project; as
well as the proposed mechanisms by which that pilot would
operate within the community's jurisdisction. Different forms
of meetings were held - townhall meetings, small group, family
visits, or individual interviews.
11. Contact Point:
Tracy Hart
Senior Economist and Co-Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1.202.458.7465
Fax: 1.202.473.8249
12. For more information on other project-related documents
contact:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1.202.458.5454
Fax: 1.202.522.1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 10 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 29, 2002.
- 11 -



