E563
Vol. 5
Process Framework
for the
Mitigation of Social Impacts
of the
Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) Project
entitled
"Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the
Lake Chad Basin"
29 March 2002
the World Bank
Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement Team



Lake Chad - Process Framework
Table of Contents
Table of Contents ........................................2
Description of the LCBC project .........................................3
OP 4.12 and Lake Chad Basin Commission ...............................................3
Project Components ..............................................4
Administrative and Legal Procedures ........................................9
Ramsar Designation ............................................... 10
Project management ...............................................11
Land Acquisition ...............................................11
Executing Agencies ..............................................                   12
Poverty Reduction and Risk Management ...............................................  12
Participatory Method .............................................. 13
Participation of Local Communities .............................................. 13
Criteria of eligibility of villages and PAPs ........................................ 15
Criteria of identification of vulnerable groups ..............................................  15
Methodology of public consultation ..............................................   16
Public Consultation and the Pilot Projects ..............................................  16
Measures to Assist Affected Persons ........................................ 16
Methodology to integrate affected populations into the project ............................................ 17
Training needs ..............................................                       18
Installation of Conflict Resolution Committees ................      ........................ 18
Conflicts between agriculturists and herders .............................................. 19
Conflicts between herders and wildlife ..............................................  19
Conflict Resolution Committees ..............................................       19
Grievance Redress .............................................. 20
Monitoring ........................................ 20
Public Consultation Strategy Plan ..............................................    21
Disclosure of the Environmental and Social Assessment and Environmental and Social
Mitigation Plans ............................................ 21
2



Lake Chad - Process Framework
Process Framework
Description of the LCBC project
The project of "Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin" (the
Project) was set up by the six countries within the Lake Chad Basin (Sudan, Chad, Niger, Nigeria,
Central African Republic and Cameroon). The LCBC approached the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) for support in confronting the problems it was facing. The two GEF implementing
agencies, the UNDP and the World Bank, have both assisted in developing the project. Other
organisations involved are the British Department for International Development (DFID), the
German BMZ, the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF)
and other multilateral institutions.
The problems of land and water degradation in the basin are a reduction in the open water area of
the lake as a result of a decrease in rainfall regimes in the southern Sahel since the late 1960s. In
parallel with the change in rainfall patterns, human populations continue to increase rapidly,
putting additional pressure on natural resource systems. Throughout the basin there are
indications of unsustainable land use, with the key problems being overgrazing, arable production
on fragile and increasingly infertile soils, uncontrolled cutting of trees, and little or no
management of fisheries. The reduction in surface water sources in the Lake Chad Basin has
intensified groundwater abstraction for domestic and industrial supplies and there are indications
that extraction rates may be exceeding recharge. Large irrigation schemes established in the
1970s and 1980s in the four countries bordering the lake are now largely non-functional.
The LCBC has already identified a number of transboundary issues. The member states have
agreed on an initial Strategic Plan for the sustainable development of the Lake Chad basin.
OP 4.12 and Lake Chad Basin Commission
Projects funded by the World Bank are guided by a set of rules (safeguards) that help avoid,
reduce or mitigate any negative social or environmental impacts. The safeguard governing the
involuntary restriction of access to resources inside parks or protected areas is Operational
Procedure (OP) 4.12 (involuntary resettlement). The nature of restrictions, as well as the type of
measures necessary to mitigate adverse impacts, is determined in consultation with the displaced
persons during project implementation.
Under OP 4.12, paragraph 3 (b), the instrument for redressing social impacts caused by restriction
of access to natural resources is a Process Framework. In the case of the LCBC, impacts have
been carefully considered and activities have been planned with a view to minimising them.
Given the nature of the project (reversal of degradation of natural resources), most of the
activities of the project will have positive social and environmental impacts. However, it is
anticipated that project activities in the lake basin may alter migration routes of nomadic and
semi-nomadic pastoralists, farmlands may be flooded and access to rangeland for cattle, water
resources, fisheries and forestry limited or altered. In some cases, the impacts are not fully
known, and will have to be determined, and mitigation measures elaborated in consultation with
stakeholders. In addition, it is anticipated that the designation of the entire shoreline of Lake Chad
as a Ramsar site will have impacts on access to resource use in the lake basin. This reduction in
access will be established according to a participatory method, encouraging the affected groups to
participate in the decision-making process. This Process Framework is therefore the document
3



Lake Chad - Process Framework
that outlines the processes and principles that will be applied to design mitigation measures in
order to reduce impacts caused by loss of access to resources.
The objective of the Process Framework is to establish an enabling environment in which the
Persons Affected by the Project (PAPs) will be able to participate in mitigating against these
negative impacts. It includes the PAPs' own input on project activities (restoration of natural
habitats, controlling water use, halting desertification, halting the advance of sand dunes,
protecting wild fauna), the determination of necessary measures to reduce social impacts caused
by the limitation in access and setting up management plans and monitoring plans.
Project Components
The Project has six components in total, which outline its institutional, financial and legal
methodologies. The only component having immediate environmental and social impacts is
Component 5. It includes six Pilot Demonstration Activities ("Pilots") to test and validate
methodologies, stakeholder involvement and implementation, and will address transboundary
priorities. The pilots are:
#1. Waza Logone Pilot
The pilot will include regular allocation of water to the floodplain from Maga dam, rehabilitation
/ creation of a wildlife pond in Waza National Park, cleaning / enlarging of a channel connecting
two streams on the floodplain and developing management plans. The project area covers 8,000
km2, roughly half of which is the Waza Logone floodplain. The area includes both the Waza and
Kalamaloue National Parks. The floodplains are highly productive, providing breeding grounds
for fish, dry season pastures that support cattle and fertile land for arable crops and forestry
products. Over 100,000 people earn all or part of their livelihoods from the floodplains. The area
has been degraded because of the construction of the 30km earthen Maga dam and a 20km dike
along the edge of the Logone. These structures significantly reduced the flooding of the Waza-
Logone floodplain, causing social and environmental problems. The Waza Logone Project was
established to promote the integrated management of the floodplain. It carried out the creation of
breaks in the dike to increase flooding and restore the ecology on the upper floodplain. The total
"average" flooded area has been increased by some 200 kM2, with very positive local impacts.
The main negative impact is that some families / communities will have to be displaced from
increased flow in the floodplain. Their resettlement will be carried out according to Bank
standards, in a participatory way.
The participation process in this pilot is already well established, as the project, also known as the
Cellule D'Appui a la Conservation et aux Initiatives de Developpement Durable (CACID) started
in 1987, with the support of the Government of the Netherlands In 1992 the project began
evaluating constraints and opportunities, collecting data on socio-economics, hydrology and
ecology, and initiating a process of stakeholder participation in the evaluation and planning of the
management of the floodplain. Supported by strong requests from local communities and the
local administration, in 1994 SEMRY' (the owners and managers of Maga dam) allowed the
project to open a section of dike that had blocked the flow from the Logone river to the
floodplain, and flood waters re-entered the system. In 1995, with funding from the Netherlands
Government and WWF, the project continued monitoring the effects of the 1994 release and
continued the dialogue with affected communities and other stakeholders. In 1997, a second
break in the dike was opened. The total "average" flooded area has been increased by some
200 km2, equivalent to 6% of the original floodplain. The impact is very significant as the
flooding is focused on the area affecting the southern zone and the Waza National Park.
Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture de Yagoua
4



Lake Chad - Process Framework
Within the floodplain the "pilot" releases have been maintained and are effectively a permanent
feature, with localised significant benefits to communities in the south and other parts of the
floodplain, and to the ecological integrity of Waza National Park.
Over three phases CACID did the following: (i) gathered data and conducted studies in socio-
economic, ecological and hydrological issues; (ii) provided training for villages, and study tours
and seminars for project and government staff; (iii) undertook eco-management activities
regarding livestock, forest use, apiculture, eco-tourism and water and sanitation; (iv) actively
encouraged community participation and awareness through a communication program; (v)
catalysed pilot releases for floodplain rehabilitation through a large-scale re-inundation program;
(vi) audited releases made in 1994 and 1997; (vii) jointly with the communities drafted proposals
for the sustainable use of the floodplains' natural resources; and (viii) assisted in developing
management plans for the Waza and Kalamaloue National Parks.
There is a need to consolidate progress made thus far by the CACID project to maximise efforts
towards reversing ongoing land and water resources degradation in the Lake Chad Basin. To this
end three NGOs were established by CACID: (i) CFAID - a support unit for training in
development initiatives that works with farmers to secure and improve agricultural production
together with FAO; (ii) AIDR - supports rural development initiatives, including credit schemes,
working with fishing groups and women organizations with support from DEDC (a German
organization); and (iii) ACEEN - supports environmental education initiatives, working with
WWF.
The World Bank has responsibility for implementing this pilot. The LCBC is the overall
executing agency, and will be working closely with CACID and its partners (IUCN, WWF,
AIDR, CFAID, ACEEN), the governments of Cameroon and Nigeria, and other relevant
institutions. Though overall executing responsibilities remain with the LCBC, its executing
partner for this pilot project will be the CACID project.
#2. Komodougou-Yobe Basin (KYB) Pilot
The pilot will include clearing blockages on floodplain channels to facilitate flow to floodplains,
reducing water consumption, developing systems of negotiated access to common property
resources to reduce land / water resource use in the wetlands and encourage the creation of
Ramsar sites. The Komodougou-Yobe River forms the boundary between Niger and Nigeria
before flowing into Lake Chad. The river basin covers an area of 150,000 kM2, and is the only
perennial river system flowing into the northern pool of lake Chad. Following the construction of
a number of dams, the flow is now less than 1% of the total input to the lake. The main flow into
the river system is from the Hadejia and Jama'are tributaries, which flow into an extensive
floodplain (the Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands). The floodplain provides a wide range of resources
including agricultural soils, grazing, non-timber forest products, firewood and fisheries. In
addition, the wetlands are a unique migratory habitat for many birds, and are a designated Ramsar
site. Management plans for the site will be arrived at through a participatory process. However,
the floodplain has come under increasing pressure from drought and upstream water
developments. The extent of flooding has declined from 300,000 ha to 100,000 ha, there are signs
of increasing salinity in the Hadejia River and there is a threat from the development of
agriculture.
This pilot project is a continuation of the existing Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project
(HNWCP), which has been working in northern Nigeria since 1987. Like the Waza Logone Pilot,
it is well established. The HNWCP was established jointly by the Federal Government of Nigeria,
5



Lake Chad - Process Framework
the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, IUCN, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (a
British NGO) and Birdlife International.
To date, the project has carried out research on land use, fisheries, grazing pressure, hydrology
and bird habitats. It recognized that a basin-wide approach is needed that includes other wetlands
and water uses within the Komodougou-Yobe Basin (KYB). This approach needs to take a multi-
sector approach and work in conjunction with other agencies in the basin. It needs to allow for: (i)
improved co-ordination (ii) biodiversity conservation; (iii) sustainable use and increasing
productivity of the ecological resources (fisheries, forest products, grazing lands, farming lands);
and (iv) effective control of the desertification process. In particular, an institution is needed that
can coordinate water development activities within the Komodougou-Yobe basin so as to avoid a
uni-sectoral, project-by-project approach.
The World Bank is responsible for implementing this pilot. The LCBC is the overall executing
agency, and will be working closely with the HNWCP management unit, the governments of
Niger and Nigeria, and other relevant institutions. The continuation of the project under GEF
should therefore be a straightforward transition, apart from social unrest in Nigeria. It is not clear
that populations were sufficiently consulted in the processes described above, and it must be
stressed that the development of management plans and other basin-wide activities must include
the participation of all stakeholders (pastoralists, agriculturists and fishermen).
#3. Niger / Chad Transboundary Desertification Pilot
The project proposes to work in the areas of sand dune fixation, range management, water point
development and agricultural improvements on upland, rainfed sites. This pilot project will
address land/resource degradation and desertification in the area to the north and east of Lake
Chad in Niger and Chad. This area is the largest "drainage" area in the basin. However, there is
virtually no surface flow from this area into the lake. Moving sands and recent "ergs" cover the
majority of the area. Wind erosion is a normal phenomenon, and is exacerbated by poor land use
practices. Overgrazing and cultivation have resulted in the loss of the vegetation that held the
dunes in place. The activities that have direct and significant environmental and/or social impacts
are dune stabilization and range management with associated water point development. Range
management would involve radical changes to access to range resources - this could potentially
affect indigenous transhumant pastoral groups. The project should be guided by OP/BP 4.12 on
the need for participatory processes in drawing up the plans for managing access rights. This
specifically includes the need to take account of the needs of vulnerable groups and especially
those below the poverty line, the landless, the elderly, women and children, indigenous peoples
and ethnic minorities.
The UNDP is responsible for implementing this pilot, which it will implement with the Lake
Chad Shorelines Pilot (see Pilot #4 below) and save $50,000 in the process. WWF-International,
the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, and the Ramsar Convention will execute portions of the
demonstration activities.
The stakeholders in the project are local communities and sub-sectors within these communities,
environment and development agencies of national governments, the Lake Chad Basin
Commission (LCBC), non-governmental organizations, populations in local villages, local
governments, environmental and development agencies and NGOs in Chad and Niger.
Unlike the Waza Logone and Komodougou-Yobe pilots, this pilot is not based on 10 years' worth
of work and studies, and results, possibilities and necessary actions are therefore more limited.
However, as a starting point, an agency should be set up to manage the project under GEF /
6



Lake Chad - Process Framework
UNOPS guidance. It is not clear that populations were sufficiently consulted in the processes
described above, and it must be stressed that the development of management plans and other
basin-wide activities must include the participation of all stakeholders (pastoralists, agriculturists
and fishermen). Given the existence of conflicts, and the Bank's knowledge that the development
of projects can aggravate them, the formation of a conflict resolution committee, including
stakeholders from all socio-economic backgrounds (pastoralists, farmers, fishermen) should be a
prerequisite to funding this pilot.
#4. Lake Chad Shorelines Pilot
The project will produce a management plan and monitoring scheme for Lake Chad and its shores
according to Ramsar guidelines. The project area is defined as the shoreline of Lake Chad and
the lake itself, although this fluctuates (3,000 km2 to 25,000 kM2). The hydrology of the lake is
unique and not fully understood. The southern part of the lake is more like a delta than a
conventional lake. The "northern pool" is like a shallow lake, but it only fills from overflow from
the southern pool. This did not happen during the 80s and most of the 90s, and the northern pool
remained dry, although it received waters again in the past few years. About 120 species of fish
have been recorded in the lake. The importance of the lake and its wetlands for migratory birds
makes it a site of global biodiversity importance. Cropping on the lakebed and recession
agriculture have become important in the recent decades of drought. There are no traditional
tenure systems for this and conflicts are common. Large numbers of livestock use the lakebed and
the wetland margins in the dry seasons - conflicts are also common between herders and farmers.
In July 2000, the LCBC declared Lake Chad a "Transboundary Ramsar site of International
Importance", however, as yet none of the countries have designated any specific sites around the
lake as Ramsar sites. Ramsar guidelines utilize a participatory method for drawing up
management objectives.
The UNDP has responsibility for implementing this pilot, which it simultaneously with the Niger
/ Chad Transboundary Desertification Pilot (see Pilot #3 above) and save $50,000 in the process.
WWF-International, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, and the Ramsar Convention will
execute portions of the demonstration activities
The stakeholders in the project are local communities and sub-sectors within these communities,
environment and development agencies of national governments, the Lake Chad Basin
Commission (LCBC), non-governmental organizations, populations in local villages, local
governments, environmental and development agencies and NGOs in Chad and Niger.
Unlike the Waza Logone and Komodougou-Yobe pilots, this pilot is not based on 10 years' worth
of work and studies, and results, possibilities and necessary actions are therefore more limited.
However, as a starting point, an agency should be set up to manage the project under GEF /
UNOPS guidance. It is not clear that populations were sufficiently consulted in the processes
described above, and it must be stressed that the development of management plans and other
basin-wide activities must include the participation of all stakeholders (pastoralists, agriculturists
and fishermen). Given the existence of conflicts, and the Bank's knowledge that the development
of projects can aggravate them, the formation of a conflict resolution committee, including
stakeholders from all socio-economic backgrounds (pastoralists, farmers, fishermen) should be a
prerequisite to funding this pilot.
#5. Lake Fitri Pilot
7



Lake Chad - Process Framework
The activities of the pilot are to compile existing studies, to hold a seminar, to conduct new
studies and participation with stakeholders, to formulate a management plan, approve the plan,
and to establish a management platform. None of these would have any direct impacts. Lake Fitri
is located 300 km north-east of N'Djamena. Like Lake Chad, it is has no outlet and it is not salty.
The project area is completely within Chad and has no transboundary component. The annual
rainfall is around 3 - 400 mm and highly variable. The lake is fed by the Batha River that
provides around 60% of the annual inflow, and during periods of low rainfall the lake can dry up.
Following a series of waterfowl counts in the mid-1980s, attention was drawn to the biodiversity
value of the lake and in 1987 the lake was declared a Ramsar site. The key global conservation
importance is the very high populations of seasonal migratory birds and afrotropical waterfowl.
The lake environment also supports the endangered red-fronted gazelle (Gazella rufifrons) and
there are reports of roan (Hippotragus equinusa) and tiang (Damaliscus lunatus) antelopes, as
well as lion, in the wooded area south of the lake. This area also harbours a small elephant
population.  Two main groups use the lake: sedentary Bilala farming communities and
transhumant Arab pastoralists. The rainfall of the area is marginal for agriculture, but rainfed
agriculture continues to expand and conflicts between sedentary agriculturalists and transhumant
herders have multiplied. Clearly there are already issues of access rights and conflicts between
pastoralists and sedentary farmers and between different groups of pastoralists. The most
significant potential threat to the site's ecological character comes from the cumulative impact of
small embankments and dams diverting seasonal runoff and river flow into the lake. With a high
potential for degradation and conflict, there is a clear need to develop new regulation and access
rules. Fortunately, Lake Fitri is within the Sultanate of Yao, which is a strong and widely
respected traditional institution.
The project proposes to develop management plans at various scales that will involve negotiation
between different user groups, and advocacy to maintain the rights of minority groups.
The World Bank is responsible for implementing this pilot. Unlike the Waza Logone and
Komodougou-Yobe pilots, this pilot does not yet have an executing partner, although some
possibilities include the Government of Chad, a non-governmental organization, and/or a private
sector partnership. The Lake Fitri pilot was initially developed by IUCN, and included in the
Lake Chad Basin Master Plan (CBLT 1992). The Dutch government had shown an interest in
financing the Lake Fitri pilot as a complement to its activities through SNV in rural development
in the area. However, due to local communal violence, the Dutch government withdrew from the
area. Since 1992 SECADEV, a development NGO with an expertise on agriculture and
development activities with the sedentary populations, has developed and implemented a
development program in the area.
It is proposed that the project offices should be based in Yao and linked to the SECADEV
network. In addition, a small liaison office to be used year-round will be established in
N'djamena at either the Direction de la Faune et des Aires Protegees, or the CBLT. It is
recommended that a small co-ordination unit is formed comprising a staff member from the
Direction de la Faune et des Aires Protegees, a part-time advisor, and the CBLT Coordinator.
This core team will be reinforced by advisors on an ad hoc basis from the Direction de P&che,
Direction des Ressources en Eau et de Meteorologie, Laboratoire de Farcha, SECADEV, and / or
DOP / SAWA. The project clearly intends to utilise the participatory method, but has not fully
demonstrated how it will do this, or identified stakeholder groups.
#6. Upper Chari Basin Pilot
This pilot proposes a participatory planning approach to develop strategic and sustainable actions
designed to reverse current resources degradation from changes in land use that have also resulted
8



Lake Chad - Process Framework
in water quality deterioration. Impacts will be beneficial, although a potential negative impact
will be that people will eventually become disillusioned and uncooperative if nothing positive for
them comes out of the process. Lake Chad receives the majority of its water from the Chari River
system. The Chari pilot project site is defined loosely as the entire upper catchment of the Chari
River, lying within the Central African Republic (CAR) and Chad. Land use in the Upper Chari
Basin has increasingly impacted the hydrology of the Chari River, which in turn negatively
affects the water quantity and quality of Lake Chad. The project will establish the basic data sets
and monitoring systems that it will need for developing projects in the basin.
The UNDP is responsible for implementing this pilot. Execution arrangements will be the
primary responsibility of LCBC in cooperation with the CAR. The PMU will act as liaison and
facilitator as well as the interim office for this pilot demonstration activity.
Possible participants and stakeholders are the regional Lake Chad Basin Commission and the
entire population of the Lake Chad Basin, the full range of ethnic groups which depend on the
resources of the headwaters area, the CAR as a whole, and more specifically, the CAR Ministries
of Environment, Agriculture, Mines and Energy (Direction of Hydraulics), Transport, and the
National Lake Chad Basin Committee. As conflicts are documented in this region conflict
resolution is required.
The activities of the project are going to include "hydrological modelling" and "aerial surveys",
but do not specify participatory involvement of populations. Before management decisions are
taken in the project, it is worth stressing that hydrological data and aerial photography are not
sufficient tools for decision making, and that involvement of populations is essential.
Administrative and Legal Procedures
The binding document between the LCBC and its member states is the LCBC Convention,
ratified by the Parliament or Congress of each country upon joining. The payment of dues is
required to maintain membership, although non-payment does not forfeit legal membership. The
LCBC member states are not committed beyond what was agreed to in the LCBC Convention
document.
The binding legal document between the Bank and the LCBC will be the grant agreement, to be
signed on the basis of a legal draft written on the basis of the contents of the Bank Project
Appraisal Document (PAD).
On a national level, the LCBC countries are very much committed to compliance with World
Bank policies and understand that compliance is a condition for the project. For example:
Sudan
Sudan's membership in Nile Basin activities as well as in the Lake Chad Basin Initiative is
evidence of its commitment to regional integration, even in the absence of donor activity at the
country level. The Sudanese government is in the process of ratifying the LCBC convention.
Chad
The Chadian central government has considerably strengthened human capacity in environmental
and social assessment, monitoring and evaluation, and participation-based methods of inclusion
and inquiry due to the Chad-Cameroon pipeline projects. Designation of the Lake Chad shoreline
as a transboundary RAMSAR site this past year should accord it preferential status for funding
from numerous environmental NGOs. A pilot on the northern banks of Lake Chad, across the
9



Lake Chad - Process Framework
Niger-Chad border to prevent dune encroachment into the Lake Chad drybeds is flexible and can
be integrated into the larger Community-Driven Development (CDD) efforts. At national level,
the relevant environmental institution is the National High Committee on the Environment, which
includes the Prime Minister and various ministers (HCNE - 1995).
Niger
Niger has recently undertaken programs, which incorporate water resource management as an
element of poverty reduction and economic growth. At national level, the relevant environmental
institution is the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development in Niger
(CNEDD - 1997), which includes the Cabinet leader, ministers, civil society, university and
NGOs.
Nigeria
Nigeria has 2/3rds of the population of the Lake Chad Basin. Nigeria has been concerned about
issues of demand management of urban water supply. At national level, the relevant
environmental institution is the Federal Environmental Protection Agency (co-ordination of
ministers) backed by the National Advisory Council (governmental organisations, private sector,
NGOs, community organisations, university) and by the National Council on the Environment
(States). Almost all the States in the Federation have prepared a long-term Environmental Action
Plan.
Central African Republic
Water flowing from north and northeastern Central African Republic accounts for 75 percent of
the water in the Chari in Chad. There is a proposed pilot study to document land use and changes
in land use in this "water tower" area.
Cameroon
In northern Cameroon the renewable resource base is quickly degrading due to urbanization,
resettlement due to population pressure, and the search for alternative income sources from
woodcutting, commercial grazing and fishing. The project has also exchanged information with
the Community Driven Development (CDD) project underway. At national level, the relevant
environmental institution is the National Consultative Committee on the Environment and
Sustainable Development (CCNEDD - 1997), which includes the Prime Minister, various
ministers, professional associations and NGOs.
As concerns project implementation, the project does not yet have a firm understanding of all
traditional or customary law but it is hoped that such understanding will be gained during the
information and consultation phases of the project.
Ramsar Designation
All countries in the LCBC are signatories of the Ramsar Convention. In addition to World Bank
policies, countries that have designated protected areas under Ramsar will follow the Ramsar
guidelines:
The Ramsar Convention aims to protect wetlands of international significance was signed in
Ramsar, Iran, in 1971. It has approximately 130 member countries from the world over. One
condition for becoming a member is to designate a wetland for protection under the Ramsar
Convention (a "Ramsar site") upon joining.
10



Lake Chad - Process Framework
When a site is designated as a "Ramsar site", it is not automatically shut off from the public by
prohibiting access, fishing, collecting firewood, hunting or any other activity. The activities that
the designation allows depends on each site, and are subject to a management plan. The
guidelines for a management plan are that it should maintain the "biological diversity and
productivity" of the wetland and "allow the wise use of the wetland by human beings". The
Ramsar Convention defines "wise use" as integrating the need for conservation of wetland
biodiversity with sustainable development. "Wise use" is synonymous with "sustainable use".
Many current Ramsar sites have no management plans in place, although the Convention urges
them to do so. Management plans are arrived at through a participatory process with local
stakeholders.
The guidelines for preparing a management plan consist of three basic actions: describing,
defining objectives and taking any necessary actions. Preparation of an elaborate plan must never
be an excuse for inaction or delay. A very brief executive summary can be used by decision-
makers in order to allow decisions of principle and funding to be taken rapidly. The management
plan itself should be a technical, not a legal, document. An authority should be appointed to
implement the management planning process.
Project management
The Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) was established in 1964 by the four countries that
border the lake (Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria) with the signing of the Fort Lamy
Convention. Central African Republic (CAR) joined the LCBC in 1994, and brought with it the
Chari-Logone and Komadougou-Yobe river systems. Further expansion is anticipated with the
Sudanese Government left to ratify the LCBC Convention in Parliament.
Project Steering Committee. The Project Steering Committee will be chaired by the Executive
Secretary of the LCBC, with one member designated from each of the LCBC member states, and
two representatives of the LCBC staff. Additionally, the PSC will be comprised of representatives
of the two GEF Implementing Agencies, one member from UNOPS, and the Project Manager,
who shall serve as an ex-officio member. Other members may be added to the PSC at the
discretion of the PSC at any time.
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committees. Each of the Participating Countries shall convene an
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee (IMCC). The LCBC will assist the countries in this
activity. Each IMCC will function to coordinate country level activities necessary to the
formulation of the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and the Strategic Action Program
(SAP). As part of country specific TDA activities, each country will formulate and prioritise its
project related, country specific activities on a sector-by-sector basis. Further, working with and
through the Project TDA formulation process, they will determine, in priority sequence, the
transboundary issues that confront the Lake Chad Basin as a whole. Each Participating Country
shall, with the assistance of the LCBC, name a Lead Country Official who will Chair the IMCC.
Provision has been made for staff assistance to each of the designated Country Chairs. Limited
financial provision has also been made for meetings of each country IMCC.
Land Acquisition
No land acquisition is expected under the LCBC. However, the designation of land as protected
areas under the Ramsar Convention may restrict access to natural resources resulting in adverse
impacts on the livelihoods of the affected population. Activities taking place within protected
areas (Ramsar sites) could change the balance to community access to wetland resources (e.g.
Komadougou-Yobe Pilot). Range management (Niger / Chad Desertification Control Pilot)
11



Lake Chad - Process Framework
would involve radical changes to access to range resources (grazing, firewood), which will affect
indigenous transhumant pastoral groups, among others. A reduction of access could be
catastrophic to the poorer, more vulnerable members of society, who are dependent on these
resources for survival.  Changes in access to resource will be addressed by encouraging
participation of the communities themselves in drawing up management plans for these resources.
During project implementation and prior to enforcement of the restriction, a plan of action will be
prepared, describing the specific measures to be taken to assist the impacted persons and
arrangements for their implementation.
Furthermore, although no land will be purchased by the project, some villages will be displaced
back to their original (pre-drought) locations as a result of re-flooding (Waza-Logone Pilot).
Involuntary resettlement such as this can give rise to severe economic, social and environmental
risks. Resettlement issues are addressed by the Resettlement Framework (see separate document).
Through the participatory process described below, local management plans will be prepared to
adequately address these issues.
Executing Agencies
Project Management Unit. The Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC), which was established in
1964, will execute the World Bank managed portion of the project. The World Bank will carry
out a Procurement Assessment to this effect. The LCBC will act on behalf of the LCBC member
countries, and be responsible to the World Bank (as Implementing Agency) and GEF to ensure
that applicable rules and procedures are adhered to. The project described here is a pre-SAP
implementation project which will emphasize completion of a TDA, the development of a
Strategic Action Program (SAP) which will be implemented in a follow-on GEF project with
substantial, additional country and donor co-finance. As an inherent strategy within the project is
to build national and regional capacity, especially within the LCBC so that is responsible for
executing the SAP, a project management unit (PMU) will be established to work closely with the
LCBC. The LCBC will have overall responsibility for the activities associated with the pilot
demonstration activities, specifically coordination responsibilities such as monitoring and
evaluation. The PMU staff will be housed at LCBC headquarters and comprise an internationally
recruited Project Manager, a regionally recruited Director of Administration and Finance, and
other locally recruited staff.
Poverty Reduction and Risk Management
The long-term development objective of the LCBC GEF project is to achieve global
environmental benefits. This will contribute to reducing poverty by enhancing the quality and
quantity of natural resources and forests in the basin, and improving the quality of pasture and
underground water. This fits in with the country assistance strategies (CAS) for: Cameroon
(ensure environmental sustainability), Central African Republic (increased environmental
degradation), Chad (strengthened capacity for natural resource management), Niger (water as one
of three pillars of Niger's development strategy, Nigeria (Agriculture and Environment) and
Sudan (poor performance in irrigated agriculture). However, every project that limits access risks
worsening the poverty of the poorer groups, and must therefore be monitored. The poorer groups
must therefore be involved in the decision making process of management plans.
12



Lake Chad - Process Framework
Participatory Method
The steps involved in participatory methods are outlined in the World Bank Participation
Sourcebook2 and focus on the use of participatory planning approaches to address poverty
reduction at the macro-level. Generally speaking, participation can be used at any stage of project
development, and can be integrated into projects that were initially non-participatory. Getting
government support for using participation is essential, and is likely to be greatly strengthened by
field visits of government agents. If the participatory aspect of the project is met with skepticism
at high level, it can be countered with field visits, visits of successful, similar projects in other
countries and persuasion through example. Building alliances with agents from the borrower
implementing agency (in this case LCBC staff and country staff) is essential and almost always
possible. Pilot projects demonstrating the effectiveness of participatory techniques are useful,
convincing tools against skepticism.
Because World Bank projects often involve the poorest groups in society, participatory methods
are frequently designed with this group in mind. The poor often have considerable barriers to
participation, which can be overcome through working with them to learn about their needs,
understanding how decisions are made in their communities, and identifying institutions and
mechanisms that can get opportunities into their hands. Techniques exist for defining poverty
(e.g. ranking of households) as well as for learning about the poor's priorities and expectations.
Projects should also have incentives for the poor to participate e.g. real benefits and visible
results. Some of the participatory tools available include Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA),
Appreciation Influence Control (AIC), Self esteem, Associative strength, Resourcefulness, Action
planning and Responsibility for follow through (SARAR) and include workshop-based methods,
community-based methods, methods for stakeholder consultation and methods for social analysis.
Participation of Local Communities
The Pilots above will to a large extent utilize a participatory process to develop their activities.
Many projects are poorly designed because they are planned and executed in a "top-down"
manner, without real understanding of the issues at stake, and offer ill-conceived solutions. The
failure rate of these projects is high, and the cost considerable, both in dollar investment,
environmental degradation and human suffering. The very infrastructure that some of pilots will
address in this LCBC project (dams) are examples of ill-conceived and expensive installations
that have left the environment and the populations poorer. Another example that yielded benefits
to one group (farmers) at the expense of another (pastoralists) is the Nigerian fadama project,
again because of poor consultation and insufficient knowledge of the ecology and the economic
use of the fadamas. Another major purpose of the participation process is to identify potential
impacts and work out solutions to those impacts, together with the affected people in the
communities. The participation of communities in project planning, implementation, monitoring
and follow-up is therefore essential.
Participation in the six Pilots has been achieved to some extent, but more assurances that it will
be used is required:
Participation of local communities in the Waza-Logone pilot has already been carried out, and
this pilot is therefore based on a good foundation. The pilot activities must continue in this way,
which will be essential for carrying out the resettlement of people displaced by floods from the
newly dredged channel. It is however understood that the dredging of the channel is welcomed by
the population, and was suggested by them.
2 http://www.worldbank.org/wbi/sourcebook/sbhome.htm
13



Lake Chad - Process Framework
Participation of communities in the creation of management plans for the KYB project (Ramsar
sites) so far is unknown. It is anticipated that participation be used, as the Ramsar methodology
requires it. It is also important not to discontinue access to the Ramsar sites suddenly, unless it is
found that this is the preferred option (in agreement with local population).
Participation of local communities in the Niger / Chad Transboundary Desertification Proiect
will need to be particularly high because the very question of open access to rangeland grazing is
at stake. If the range is to survive (and not become totally degraded), access to it will inevitably
have to be severely restricted (according to numerous expert opinions). Only through
participation with range users can this be managed effectively, and realistic solutions found. The
LCBC via UNOPS (the implementing agency of the project) will have to designate a team to
coordinate activities representative of the range users.
The designation of the banks of Lake Chad as Ramsar sites will defacto require a participatory
process for setting up management plan, as this is the methodology required by Ramsar.
However, the pilot brief has not been explicit in this.
Finally, the participatory method will be used in the Lake Fitri and Upper Chari Pilots, as
these will address access rights and natural resource management plans. It is essential that these
planning, management, resettlement and access-to-resource activities take place with local
participation.
The pilot projects include planning and management activities, and in most cases have identified
possible stakeholder communities or project sites for project interventions. The one main
exception to this is the Lake Chad Shoreline Project, which has not yet identified the proposed
project sites round the lake. Each pilot project will have to define its own community
management structures depending on the communities involved and the resource base that they
will manage.
A project should be constructed on the basis of information gathering, followed by consultation
and participation and finally by implementation. A review of project experience with stakeholder
involvement has indicated the following key issues that need to be addressed:
*  Groups should demonstrate a need and have a common interest in the outcome of the project;
*  Groups should have a clear understanding of the benefits and desired changes to be derived
from the project;
*  The groups (or communities) should have the capacity, leadership, knowledge and skills
needed to manage the tasks for implementing the project;
*  Groups (or communities) are capable of making and enforcing their own rules and
regulations; and
*  An inclusive decision-making process exists from the project design phase and throughout
the project life.
Many of the communities around the lake have their own clearly defined representative
organisations that provide effective channels for communication. Traditional leaders occupy
pivotal positions for mobilising people and should be brought into the planning and management
process, with due concern for ensuring genuine representation of the stakeholders. Other
communities do not have representative structures or traditional leaders that can speak for them.
No foolproof methods exist to guarantee full local-level participation.
14



Lake Chad - Process Framework
For each pilot, the managing authority (e.g. CACID for Waza Logone) will designate a team to
coordinate all "participatory" activities. This team should include one or more experts in
participatory methods. The first task of this team is to make a census / record of the population,
making all efforts to take into account migratory sectors of the population. This is followed by a
participatory diagnosis. Representatives of all sectors must then be invited to participate in the
project planning or diagnosis. Planning should take place during more than one session, giving all
groups an opportunity to be heard. Standard participatory methods exist to give voice to usually
silent groups. Once the aims and methodology are established and agreed upon, and the funding
agency satisfied with the standard of participation and presentation, the project activities can start.
Monitoring activities will be carried out at regular intervals (at least at project mid-term and
before completion).
Criteria of eligibility of villages and PAPs
If the management plans (arrived at through participation) decide that there will be restricted
access to resources, then compensation has to be considered. The first step is to determine who
will be affected.
The necessary condition to qualify as a Person Affected by the Project (PAP) is those persons that
depend on the access to the resource to maintain their standard of living. The exact number will
be determined by participatory appraisal. The diagnosis phase will serve as a reference to
determine the PAPs. People having entered the zone after the diagnosis will not be considered.
Any person identified as a PAP must be able to participate in meetings and decisions concerning
the management of the project. In the LCBC, PAPs are: agriculturists cultivating crops in the
project area during the rainy or dry season, pastoralists, hunters, poachers, woodcutters, charcoal
burners, wood workers, women collecting firewood, beekeepers, fishermen and all fisheries-
industry related people e.g. fish smokers, traders, traditional herbalists, thatchers and basket-
makers and traditional healers using sacred sites. This list is not final, and other categories may
be added as the project develops.
Criteria of identification of vulnerable groups
These groups must be identified as a matter of priority because they have a strong dependence on
the resources of the Lake for food security and survival. The criteria used to identify these groups
are: inability to produce food year-round; a very small amount of livestock; low-quality habitat;
inability to pay for school fees for children; cultivation of small fields and of land belonging to
others; the presence of dependents and no active members of the community; low technology
tools and no means of locomotion other than by foot. Individuals responding to these criteria must
benefit first from micro credit-generating activities and must participate in the decision-making
process that may reduce access to the resources.
Identifying the populations that are affected by the project
All the inhabitants of villages adjacent to impacted zones are affected. A distinction must be
made between the People Affected by the Project (PAPs) and the Communities Affected by the
Project (CAPs) insofar as they live in adjacent villages. All adjacent villages are defacto CAPs.
Villages situated further away, which are traditionally dependent on the CAPs through land
rights, land grants and resource use, are also considered CAPs.
Census of PAPs
Close to twenty million people depend for their livelihood on activities carried out in the lake and
its active basin. By the year 2020, the population that depends on the lake and its associated
15



Lake Chad - Process Framework
resources is projected to reach 35 million. For the six pilot projects a census needs to be
conducted to determine the number of PAPs. Initial indications are:
#1. Waza Logone Pilot - Over 100,000 people directly eam all or part of their livelihoods from
the resources of the floodplains.
#2. Komodougou-Yobe Pilot - Unknown.
#3. Ni2er / Chad desertification Pilot - Niger: the population of Departement of Diffa is
estimated at 210,000. Chad: The main population centres are Bol and Mao, with a population of
around 30,000 (total: 240,000).
#4. Lake Chad Shorelines Pilot - Central African Republic: 1 million.
#5. Lake Fitri Pilot - Unknown.
#6. Upper Chari Basin Pilot - Unknown.
Methodology of public consultation
The procedure to be followed to identify and enumerate PAPs is a "participative diagnosis", to be
initiated at the start of the LCBC. Vulnerable members of society will be identified first. The
technique for identification of the poor and vulnerable within a rural community is the "property
classification", one of the tools of PRA, and the "individual vote" used by qualified NGOs. The
identification of PAPs is done during the "participative diagnosis", using one file per person
(including name, village, neighbourhood, type of activity in the forest, what season, using what
resource). This allows the personalized monitoring of very poor people at mid-term and at the
end of the project.
Public Consultation and the Pilot Projects
Stakeholder participation in pilot project preparation had generally been insufficient at the level
of user groups and community groups. It is very important that measures be taken to correct this
situation and to substantively involve these stakeholders in project development.
Although the guidelines are different for different levels of project intervention, the World Bank
policies recognise the benefits of the involvement of stakeholders at all stages of the project
cycle. This includes both the planning stages, and, during implementation, the management and
monitoring - and if necessary, modification - of project interventions.
The World Bank Participation Sourcebook focuses on the use of participatory planning
approaches to address poverty reduction at the macro-level. The concepts at the macro-level
overlap with those being developed to promote Community Driven Development that has so far
been most successful at the micro level.
Measures to Assist Affected Persons
The affected persons (those who have lost access to a resource because of protected areas) in the
LCBC project will be assisted through negotiated management plans. In the case of the Ramsar
plans as well as access to open rangeland, this will be done through the participatory process.
However, even if the plan was arrived at through participation, mitigation measures will be taken
in order to fully restore the income base of the affected people. Such measures may be alternative
16



Lake Chad - Process Framework
income restoration measures, which will take many different forms. These social mitigation plans
will be "stand alone" documents and will be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
Methodology to integrate affected populations into the project
There are seven stages to integrating PAPs into the process to reduce the negative social impacts
from the restriction of access to resources from the LCBC: (i) Participatory Diagnosis allows the
identification of stakeholders, the types of resources affected and the timetable of activities
affected; (ii) Inter-villager associations are organized as early as possible and will be the
managers of the protected areas. They will carry out the application of the Process Framework
for the Communities Affected by the Project (CAPs); (iii) the PAPs will identify the mitigatory
actions for having withdrawn from the protected areas and the actions required to participate in
conservation (e.g. capacity building, equipment required, fees); (iv) negotiation of the
management plan and other necessary works (e.g. new cattle rearing systems, new watering
points, tree planting); (v) installation of Conflict Resolution Committees; (vi) carrying out works
and management plans; (vii) monitoring and surveillance. These steps are not necessarily in
succession, but they contribute to the integration of PAPs in the execution of the Process
Framework.
Participatory Diagnosis
This is the basic tool of participative methodologies, and will be carried out with the help of
sociologists using standard tools such as PRA. The Diagnosis allows for the identification the
stakeholders having activities, even seasonal ones, in the protected areas, how to contact them,
the types of resources affected, it maps the activities, evaluates the extension and degree of
predation on the resources and the timetable of impacted activities. The Diagnosis can give
general information on neighbouring lands, which can define village clusters. The Diagnosis
serves as an initial database for monitoring and to evaluate compensatory measures for each
villager (e.g. training, integration in microproject activities).
The social impact assessment requires that the information from the PAPs be disclosed in French
as well as local languages, so that the information reaches all social levels, who often do not
speak principal languages (women, hunters, fishermen). PAPs are informed by administrative
organizations and by local traditional organizations. The flow of information relies on local
administration. Invitation to meetings are via traditional channels (rural councils, chiefs), concern
all representatives of civil society and the entire population, with an emphasis on those
populations who will be most affected by the restriction of access. For those stakeholders present
in the area for only part of the year (e.g. nomadic pastoralists) the permanent residents and the
"lodgers" can be discovered during Diagnosis. Every year and for each site, all stakeholder must
hold meetings. To ensure that all PAPs have been contacted, the experts in charge of monitoring
and surveillance will enquire upon the people present in the meetings so as to verify that no
stakeholder, even semi-nomadic, was forgotten or excluded.
Consultations to reduce negative impacts
Consultation will be used to reduce negative impacts from reduction in access to the protected
areas. The diagnosis and supplementary survey phase allows PAPs to influence the management
plan by considering the type of resource affected, the timing, and by evaluating the trade-off
between needs and access restriction e.g. herders able to cut grass in certain areas, women able to
gather fruits, leaves and other products, woodcutters able to cut wood in specified areas, fisheries
to continue following certain rules. These activities will be allowed to continue according to
certain rules, negotiated and enforced by the stakeholders themselves. These activities will
drastically reduce the potential degradation in the basin. The most critical Pilot project in which
17



Lake Chad - Process Framework
to act is the Niger / Chad Desertification Pilot, as this will severely limit access to the resource
(rangeland).
Inter-village associations
Capacity building and the participatory procedure that will lead to the creation and ratification of
the management plans will contain the following elements: recognition and support to local and
traditional organizations of hunters, fishermen, women, pastoralists and foresters. Inter-village
associations for the management of natural resources will assemble representatives from these
various groups. Compensation measures will be needed when management plans ban certain
activities outright in the protected areas e.g. banning open access to rangelands. For other
stakeholders, mitigatory activities will include provisions e.g. other land elsewhere, the creation
of revenue-generating activities or sourcing fodder for livestock from outside for a limited time.
These elements will emerge from the participatory diagnosis.
Identification of mitigatory actions
Possible mitigatory actions for pastoralists being denied access to open rangeland includes
increased knowledge of the herds, the range and the use of the range by the cattle. Satellite images
can be used to support this action. Knowledge of the reasons why pastoralists use certain routes e.g.
search for pasture or water, markets, veterinary services or religious celebrations can be obtained
via participatory diagnosis. Improving existing migration routes can be done, in participation with
adjacent villages. Measures for conflict reduction can be achieved by setting up conflict resolution
units comprising herders and by creating incentives to herders to keep out of protected areas e.g.
creating watering holes outside the reserves. Finally, standard animal husbandry techniques can be
used e.g. by constructing vaccination stations, improving abattoirs, improving pasture and planting
fodder trees.
Training needs
The participatory method requires specific training for all government agents involved. These
agents are traditionally used to a "top-down" approach, although the participatory method
requires agreement with all actors concerned, especially rural ones. Training modules will
include policies of decentralization, of decentralized natural resource management, of sharing
conservation tasks between technicians and local populations in programmes of participative co-
management. Training is a priority and could be carried out by local NGOs or other services
having experience and available tools in the field. Training will include organisational modes of
farmers, structure of groups, monitoring of management of capacity of these organisations and
their means of management, power structure and control. This training will allow the transfer of
all organisation and management activities to the inter-village associations. The associations will
receive training in management and organisation of powers within groups, as well as financial
and accounting decisions.
Installation of Conflict Resolution Committees
Before the launch of the LCBC project conflicts already existed, mainly between farmers and
pastors (resulting from damage to crops by cattle, planting crops across cattle tracks, access to
water, fires, quarrels over land and protest against newcomers). The limitation of access to
resources of protected areas will result in the transfer of certain activities (especially pastoralism)
towards the lands of neighbouring villages. To avoid the conflicts that could result, the project
will set up conflict resolution mechanisms.
These mechanisms are active at two levels: preventative and remedial. At the preventative level,
the aim is to identify potential conflicts and to foresee, through a participative method, the mode
18



Lake Chad - Process Framework
of reduction of these conflicts. Traditional institutions open up to younger members and other
groups not usually represented e.g. women, semi-nomadic pastoralists and foreigners. Social
groups that were earlier ignored are included. To avoid conflict, setting up communication routes
that favour existing networks are essential, as well setting up precise rules for the management of
resources, accepted by all (e.g. time and order of access to water point, season of access to
pasture, prohibition of access acceptable to all). The agreement can be informal or recognized by
the local administration. The execution of the agreement details the rights and duties of each
actor, as well as the modes of penalisation. At the remedial level, after the conflict has already
happened, recognized institutions need to be set up, to treat conflict by arriving at a consensus by
way of the recognition of a fault by its author, by the payment of fines or by community work.
Again, the composition of the institution must include all social classes so that conflict can be
resolved amicably, without the need for official intervention.
Conflicts between agriculturists and herders
Foreseeable conflicts will occur (i) around water points because of the increased risk of damage
to market gardening; (ii) on pasture land after the crops are harvested, and before the cattle are
allowed onto the fallow land; (iii) by the pruning of fodder trees; (iv) by the closure of certain
cattle path, thereby transferring a greater load onto other paths.
It is very clear from an analysis of other projects e.g. the National Fadama Development Project
(NFDP) in Nigeria that one of the causes of conflict is the very limited knowledge of the
situation, and decisions having been taken in a "top-down" manner, without stakeholder
consultation, which aggravated the situation. For example, in the fadama project, it was unknown
(or unresearched) whether fadamas had any use before they were converted to arable cropland.
Only after the fact was it discovered that pastoralists traditionally used these lands during the dry
season, and that therefore conflict was inevitable.
Conflicts between herders and wildlife
The provision of additional water within the park (Waza Logone pilot) should reduce conflict
between wildlife and communities at watering sites outside the park. However these conflicts will
remain. The mechanism is mostly preventative: the situation must be studied e.g. the relation
between humans and wildlife e.g. porcupines, elephants. The curative process is also available
e.g. compensation: who will pay and according to what procedures. The conflict resolution
committees will determine this.
Conflict Resolution Committees
The mechanisms outlined above will be implemented by conflict resolution committees, which
should be made a prerequisite condition for GEF financing of pilot projects. Each pilot must have
its committee, whether created specifically for the project, or based on an existing committee
(traditional, regional, community level). The committees must be broad-based, and include all
socio-economic groups (herders, farmers, fishermen). An agreed-upon inventory of rights and
obligations of the different users of the range and of future investments is also a prerequisite.
Activities that successfully encourage the cooperation and mutual appreciation of the two groups
(farmers and pastoralists) have been demonstrated in the fadama project, and efforts should be
made to integrate these activities into the LCBC pilots. Fadamas are fertile valley bottoms, which
are highly sought by cattlemen and by farmers. Because of the high demand for fadama
resources, there are conflicts between the users. These have been aggravated by the Fadama
Project, which initially did not consider the traditional fadama use by herders, and turned over
hundreds of fadamas to agriculturists. Apart from classical conflict resolution (negotiation, shared
19



Lake Chad - Process Framework
access, setting up committees, investment in stock routes, watering points, grazing areas, raising
awareness, participation, group management, private management and security controls), two
activities were successfully used to promote entente between pastoralists and farmers: dairy
development and smallholder livestock fattening.
These activities have been very successful because they bridge the gap between arable farmers
and pastoralists by promoting the integration of crop and livestock production, and creating
greater commercial linkages between the different groups. Dairy development with pastoralists is
particularly beneficial for women, as they control the income from the sale of milk. In
smallholder livestock fattening, cattle (young males or oxen past their work life) are intensively
fed with crop-residues and other agro-industrial by-products (cottonseed cake). This technology
would increase the demand for crop by-products from the arable farms and for fattening stock
from the pastoralists. These activities need to be supported by an effective rural finance
component and investments in adaptive research and livestock services (veterinary services).
Grievance Redress
First, compensation committees including representatives of PAPs will establish the
compensation rates in order to avoid litigation. Second, compensation will be paid to individual
PAPs only after a written consent of the PAPs, including both husband and wife. Should a PAP
refuse the compensation suggested, he/she could appeal to the local administration or traditional
court. Should grievance prevail, a civil court will settle the litigation. Each individual PAP has the
right to refuse the compensation rate proposed and take his case to the court when other grievance
redress measures have failed.
Monitoring
There are two separate meanings to "monitoring" in the project: (1) as a project activity (e.g.
monitoring water levels) and (2) to ensure that project activities are carried out e.g. making sure
that conflict resolution committees are set up.
The LCBC will have overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of the activities of the
pilot demonstration activities. Monitoring activities will be the responsibility of the
implementation agency for each pilot. As the activities differ in terms of background (socio-
economic, scientific, sociological) a range of qualified experts will have to ensure it. To avoid
conflict of interest, monitoring will have to be carried out by persons other than those carrying
out the project activities. For each pilot, further monitoring will be done by supervision missions
by the implementing agency (World Bank or UNDP).
Experts available include specialist national or international consultants and NGOs who have
worked previously on similar projects in the region e.g. the Chad-Cameroon oil pipeline project,
which included issues of resettlement. Other expertise in resettlement could be had from
consultants having worked on the Cameroon Railway Concessioning Project (CAMRAIL).
Monitoring and surveillance will be applied from the start, for every site. Key indicators will be
defined for each phase. A reference database on the monitoring of social impacts will be
constituted at the start of the project immediately after public consultation (disclosure). The
database will include (i) monitoring of activities in the protected areas, from a list of all activities,
(ii) the monitoring of PAPs, from a list of PAPs, the means to contact them, a file for people
identified as vulnerable, (iii) the monitoring of compensatory measures (microprojects and
training for PAPs, infrastructure for CAPs), their timetable and implementation schedule, (iv)
monitoring of organizational aspects (transparency, decision taking).
20



Lake Chad - Process Framework
Public Consultation Strategy Plan
The GEF, World Bank and UNDP all have public disclosure policies. The 1994 Instrument for a
restructured GEF states "... GEF-financed projects shall provide for full disclosure of all non-
confidential information, and consultation with, and participation as appropriate of, major
groups and local communities throughout the project cycle."
The policy for disclosure of information on the Bank's GEF operations goes beyond this and
provides for more open access to GEF project-related information. In August 2001, the World
Bank Disclosure policies were revised. The revised policy for GEF projects states: "Make EA
report self-standing (and)... Make disclosure a prerequisite for beginning of appraisal". In
addition, during project preparation factual technical documents will "...continue to be disclosed
by the country director..." It is assumed that these same criteria will apply to projects developed
as part of the SAP and to the SAP and TDA themselves.
Disclosure of the Environmental and Social Assessment and
Environmental and Social Mitigation Plans
The newly revised guidance for disclosure of Environmental Assessments requires disclosure
prior to project appraisal. The Bank requirement for the disclosure of EA and SA reports could be
accommodated through a stakeholders' meeting to be organised by LCBC. This could be done in
early January - or even in parallel with the appraisal mission. It is recommended that LCBC
invite key stakeholders from all pilot project sites to a meeting in N'Djamena, which would be
attended, by LCBC and national counterpart staff.
The following list of pilot project stakeholder groups is indicative of the range that should be
invited to the stakeholder meeting:
*  Waza Logone - IUCN, SEMRY, National Parks and community leaders (lamido) from the
floodplain communities;
*  Komodougou-Yobe / Hadejia Nguru - IUCN, Hadejia Jama'are River basin Development
Authority, National Conservation Foundation, DFID, community leaders;
*  Desertification SODELAC, representatives from the Ministry of Environment, Livestock,
Water and Agriculture in Diffa and Nguigmi, the President of the Pastoralists Association in
Nguigmi, community leaders from Bol, Liwa and Rig-Rig;
*  Lake Chad Shoreline Management Plan - Ramsar, representatives of lakeshore user groups,
*  Lake Fitri - The Sultan of Yao, the Sous-Prefet of Ambasetna, Ramsar, SECADEV, leaders
of the local Union of groupements in Yao;
* Upper Chari Basin - WWF, Ministry of Environment, non-governmental and other village
representatives from project sites.
Stakeholders should be provided with copies of the pilot project proposals and with the relevant
sections of the EA report in French or English as appropriate.
21



