Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23845-AFR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.9 MILLION
SDR 2.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
LAKE CHAD BASIN COMMISSION
FOR THE
REVERSAL OF LAND AND WATER DEGRADATION TRENDS IN THE LAKE CHAD BASIN
ECOSYSTEM
(P070252)
January 21, 2003
Water and Urban 2
CD 07, CD 12, CD 13
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective dollars)
Currency Unit = $US
FISCAL YEAR
2003 - 2007
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALWI                       Africa Land and Water Inititiative
BCSP                       Basin Commnittee for Strategic Planning
BMZ                        Bundesministerium fur Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit und
Entwicklung
CAR                        Central African Republic
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CCD                        Convention to Combat Desertification
CDD                        Community-Driven Development
CILSS                      Comite Permanent Inter-Etats de Lutte contre la Secheresse
CTO                        Chief Technical Officer
DFID                       Department for Intemational Development
DGIS                       Directorate-General for Intemational Cooperation
EA                         Environmental Assessment
ECOFAC                     Ecosystemes Forestiers d'Afrique Centrale
EIS                        Environmental Impact Studies
EMP                        Environmental Management Plan
EU                         European Union
ECOWAS                     Economic Committee of West African States
ERR                        Economic Rate of Retum
FAO                        Food and Agriculture Organisation
FMS                        Financial Management System
FRR                        Financial Rate of Return
GEF                        Global Environment Facility
IA                         Implementing Agencies
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IDA                        Intemational Development Association
IMC                        Inter-Ministerial Committees
IMCC                       Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Commitees
INGO                       Intemational Non-Govemmental Organization
IRED                       Integrated Resources and Environmental Management
IUCN                       Intemational Union for the Conservation of Nature
IW                         International Waters
LCBC                       Lake Chad Basin Commission
M&E                        Monitoring and Evaluation
MSP                        Medium-Sized Projects
NAP                        National Action Plan
NBA                        Niger Basin Authority
NEAP                       National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                        Non-Govemmental Organization



NPV                        Net Present Value
OP                         Operational Policy
PAD                        Project Appraisal Document
PCD                        Project Concept Document
PDF                        Project Development Facility
PIR                        Project Implementation Review
PIP                        Project Implementation Plan
PMU                        Project Implementation Unit
PPER                       Project Performance and Evaluation Review
PMR                        Project Management Report
PRSP                       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC                        Project Steering Committee
PTF                        Project Task Force
RFP                        Request for Proposals
SAP                        Strategic Action Plan
SOE                        Statement of Expenses
STAP                       Scientific Technical Advisory Program
TDA                        Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
TPR                        Tri-Partitite Review
UNDESA                     United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs
UNDP                       United Nations Development Programme
UNEP                       United Nations Environment Programme
UNESCO                     United Nations Economic Social and Cultural Organization
UNOPS                      United Nations Office for Project Support
WWF                        World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Managers/Directors:  Ali Khadr
Antoinette M. Sayeh
Mark D. Tomlinson
Sector Manager/Director:  Inger Andersen/Praful C. Patel
Task Team Leader:   Tracy Hart



AFRICA
REVERSAL OF LAND AND WATER DEGRADATION TRENDS IN THE LAKE CHAD BASIN
ECOSYSTEM
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21



2. Critical risks                                                                  21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  23
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         23
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        46
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  62
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    63
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               75
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         77
Annex 11: Project Description of UNDP and World Bank components                       79
Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan Overview                                      89
Annex 13: Dam Safety Plan                                                             93
MAP(S)



AFRICA
Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTU2
Date: January 21, 2003                            Team Leader: Tracy Hart
Sector Manager: Inger Andersen                    Sector(s): Water supply (60%), Central government
Country Manager/Director: Ali Khadr               administration (40%)
Project ID: P070252                               Theme(s): Water resource management (P), Pollution
Focal Area: I - International Waters              management and environmental health (P), Environmental
policies and institutions (P), Regional integration (S)
-Pw jectFinancing-'Dat-a  1     ,    .    ,                   -_ ,z , 
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit  [XI Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Finanlcing6Plari(US$m):   aSource   ,                      Lol             Foreign        Totl
BORROWERIRECIPIENT                                              0.33           0.08          0.41
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                        0.94           3.75          4.69
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACLITY                                      0.58           2.32          2.90
NETHERLANDS: MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF                  0.39           1.58          1.97
DEV. COOP.
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                                 0.35           1.40          1.75
UN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME                                        1.41           5.64          7.05
WORLD WILDLIFE FUND                                             0.03           0.12          0.16
TotpI:                                                          4.03          14.90         18.93
Borrower/Recipient: LAKE CHAD BASIN COMMISSION (LCBC)
Responsible agency: PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (PMU)
Lake Chad Basin Commission
Address: B.P. 727 NDjamena, Chad
Contact Person: Muhammed Sani Adamu
Tel: (235) 524.145          Fax: (235) 524.137           Email: Icbc@intnet.td
Other Agency(ies):
United Nations Development Programme
Address: UNDP-GEF One United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017
Contact Person: Maryarn Niamir-Fuller
Tel: (212) 906-6076           Fax: (212) 906-6362           Email: Maryam.niamir-fullergundp.org
Address: United Nations Office for Project Services
Contact Person: Andrew Menz
Tel: (212) 457-1875           Fax: (212) 457-4044          Email: AndrewM@unops.org
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
- 2004 -      2005      2006
Annual      0.67       1.27      0.69       0.27
Cumulative     0.67       1.94       2.63       2.90



Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 02/01/2003  Expected closing date: 01/31/2007
X:l= PAD FzlS R.  -ZI2
- 2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective is to build capacity within the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) and its
national committees so that it can better achieve its mandate of managing land and water resources in the
greater conventional basin of Lake Chad.
Project history, context and phasing. The project was first prepared by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), and a PDF-B was approved by the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) in 1995
and executed by UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UlNDESA). Work at that time resulted
in an update of a Diagnostic Study, an update of a LCBC Master Plan, as well as elements of a strategic
action plan. At the end of the PDF-B preparation phase in 1999, the World Bank was asked to partner
UNDP in order to use each institution's comparative advantage: UNDP for supporting capacity building
in LCBC and member countries, and the Bank for strategic vision, convening power, and to leverage
Intemational Development Association (IDA) funding at a later date. It was only at this time that Sudan
began the process ofjoining the LCBC. The GEF Secretariat also approved PDF-C funds at this stage. It
has been added to both the UNDP and Bank documentation since' the GEF Secretariat approved the
Project Brief.
The project has six components, three are to be implemented by UNDP, two are to be implemented by
the World Bank, and one component will be jointly implemented by UNDP and the Bank. This last
component comprises six pilot projects, with each institution responsible for three pilots. The World
Bank responsibilities are for components 2 and 6 as well as for three pilot projects in component 5:
*   Component 2: Enhanced regional policy initiatives and institutional mechanisms to address
transboundary issues during and beyond the life of the project (US$1.08 million);
*   Component 5: Creation of regional programs and initiation of demonstration projects to test and
validate methodologies, secure stakeholder involvement and develop implementation modalities:
- Lake Fitri pilot in Chad (US$0.5 million)
- Komadougou-Yobe pilot in Niger and Nigeria (US$0.475 million)
- Chari-Logone pilot in Cameroon and Chad (US$0.475 million); and
*   Component 6: Strategic Action Plan (SAP) designed and endorsed with donor support mobilized
(US$0.36 million);
To prevent confusion, the component numbering is being kept as it was in the discussions with LCBC
and its members, and the GEF Implementing Agency (IA), UNDP. This project is the first phase of a two
phase GEF project. Phase 2 will build on momentum generated by leveraging IDA funds. It will also
work towards greater coordination by drawing upon the constituency that was built in Phase 1.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
LCBC is to be held accountable for the following indicators:
*   Increased numbers of stakeholders involved in local and transboundary water resource management
issues, ability to influence decision making processes as a result;
*   Increased awareness of the impact of national policies on shared water resources by constituency
groups;
*   Implementation support for the Bank's three pilot projects;
*   Completion and adoption of the Strategic Action Plan (SAP), with a framework, timeline, and
financing plan for implementation of priority activities;
*   Increased donor involvement in and support for the SAP and LCBC Plan implementation.
- 3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: various   Date of latest CAS discussion: various
The Lake Chad Basin GEF project includes five member countries with five Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) related linkages.
Document number: various         Date of latest CAS discussion: various
Cameroon's 2000 CAS Progress Report discusses results from the Cameroon Poverty Profile, noting
rural access to water at 20 percent compared to urban areas at 70 percent. The Progress Report also
recognizes water resources among other environmental issues where little work has been done. The
focus of IDA lending is governance, public expenditure management, HIV/AIDS prevention, community
development, and rehabilitatation of education and health sectors.
Central African Republic's 1998 Poverty Note states agriculture as the most likely source for poverty
reduction and economic growth, and also states that the northern savanna regions are beginning to suffer
the effects of increased environmental degradation.
Chad's 2002 draft CAS notes access to water as one of two main challenges that Chad faces, the other
being reliance on the Chadian environment. Improving governance, improving human capital, and
reducing economic vulnerability are listed as the three main objectives.
Niger's 1997 CAS document earmarks water as one of three pillars of Niger's development strategy, with
human capital development and exploitation of regional growth opportunities as the other two. A Water
Resource Management Review, a Water Supply Project, and a Private Irrigation Promotion Project, and a
River Basin Strategy are recent projects launched in support of this strategy, which also aids in
strengthening regional ties related to water use.
Nigeria's 2002 Interim Strategy Update continues to cite land degradation as the most serious
environmental problem facing Nigeria. The Strategy has an emphasis on economic governance, private
sector lending, and local community empowerment.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Global operational strategy. The global operational strategy is to facilitate a basin-wide constituency
and participation in the development and implementation of sustainable management practices for Lake
Chad's land and water resources.
Program objective addressed by project.
The project will facilitate the development of a broad based constituency for regional mechanisms to
ensure the LCBC member countries collaborate and coordinate their use of the Lake Chad resources.
This it will do by:
*   Building awareness of how national policies impact on regional resources, and capacity among
the riparians and stakeholders;
* Augmenting the existing constituency through the design of a SAP;
* Donor coordination; and
*   Coordinating with other GEF projects.
-4 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
Shrinking Lake and Climate Change: Historically, Lake Chad was Africa's fourth largest lake.
However, due to persistent drought and human activity, its surface area has decreased from a peak of
25,000 sq.km to approximately 1,350 sq.km, making it now the fifteenth largest lake in Africa. Due to its
shallow depth, on average 1.5 m and 7 m at its deepest point, Lake Chad is particularly susceptible to
seasonal and inter-annual fluctuations in size. The lake is fed by monsoons falling between June and
August in the upper watershed. Though the hydrographic basin extends over 2.3 million sq.km, the
hydrologically active basin is less than half that area at 0.97 million sq.krn. A recent rebound in lake
levels has been noted, but it is unclear whether this is due to climate variations or human-based factors.
Decreasing Flows into Lake Chad: Persistent drought has resulted in a drier climate and less rainfall,
that in turn has led to increased demands for the water feeding Lake Chad. For example, the discharge of
the Chari-Logone river system at N'Djamena is 75 percent less than before; and the demand for irrigation
water has also increased in response to the drier climate and the large-scale schemes upstream of the
lake. It is estimated that between 1966 and 1975, the lake shrank by 30 percent, of which five percent
was due to extraction for irrigation. Between 1983 and 1994 irrigation extraction quadrupled, which
contributed to the 50 percent decrease in the lake's surface area.
Persistent Rural Poverty: More than 20 million people (expected to increase to 35 million by 2020)
depend upon the Lake Chad basin's resources to support a wide range of economic activities including
recession agriculture, pastoralism, forest regeneration, fish breeding and production, and
drought-fall-back security. The symbiotic relationship between poverty and environmental degradation is
particularly strong in the Lake Chad basin with arid conditions coupling with human pressures such as
deforestation and unsustainable agricultural practices to exacerbate desertification.
Measures to tackle the environmental issues are severely limited by regional poverty. The basin's
population is having to deal with the consequences of the shrinking of the lake and its associated
aquifers, such as declining perennial vegetation and increased vulnerability to erosion. Especially hard
hit is the fishing sector. The smaller lake has restricted fishing access for Niger and Nigeria. For
example, small-scale fishers from Niger must cross the political boundary to fish the smaller lake.
Nigeria is also experiencing increased problems accessing surface water resources for its large-scale
irrigation projects.
National workshops undertaken as part of the PDF-B process across the region identified the threats they
face if the countries do not coordinate their actions and work in collaboration. These issues are as
follows: (i) misallocation of water resources, particularly between large irrigated systems and elements of
the natural system; (ii) spirals of degradation, with one harmful action having a cascading effect,
resulting in additional harmful actions; (iii) increased competition for the natural resources leading to
disputes and tension between countries; and (iv) further deterioration of the natural environment.
Short-Term Policy Focus: A focus on the short-term often results in unsustainable policy decisions. The
consequences of these unsustainable policy decisions include the absence of an integrated approach to
water resource management at the national and basin levels, costly investment that is abandoned because
of unforeseen changes in water availability, and construction of large upstream dams without taking
sufficient account of downstream human and ecosystem considerations. Further, mining operations are
often not sufficiently co-ordinated with regional water and environmental policies. This short-term
-5 -



policy focus is further characterized by the. failure of development strategies in rural areas, including
those related to human health, and the development of agricultural and industrial activities geared to
production quantities often at the expense of environmental sustainability.
Strengthened Riparian Commitment and LCBC Capacity: The Lake Chad Basin Commission established
in 1964 by four of the riparian countries (Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria), was expanded in 1994
with the Central African Republic (CAR) membership. Sudan is currently in the process of joining the
LCBC via ratification of the Convention. Though the founding riparians gave the LCBC a broad
mandate relating to prior notification, monitoring studies and works related to water resources, and the
authority to examine complaints and to contribute to the resolution of differences among member
countries, the countries have often bypassed the Commission in developing their national works.
The countries of the Lake Chad basin recognize that such uncoordinated development is unsustainable in
terms of investment, socio-economic and ecosystem welfare, and that they needed to coordinate their
national plans and actions with each other at the regional level. With the renewed interest in regional
coordination the member countries have agreed to undertake a review of the LCBC. For the LCBC to
assume a more central role within the basin, working with the countries and regional projects, its capacity
will need to be strengthened. A stronger LCBC would then be well positioned to assume complete
executive responsibility in the next phase of the GEF project, implementing the SAP.
Non-existent or Unsuitable Water and Environmental Management Policies: Generally, there is
insufficient knowledge of water resources, and specifically, how aquatic systems function. There is no
effective system for monitoring the quantity and quality of freshwater resources, nor are there effective
water quality protection programs. Water-demand management is ineffective and little attention is paid
to adapting production methods to natural resource limitations. In economic policies, there is little value
accorded to water and the environment. There is an absence of economic instruments, incentive
measures, and specific programs to promote and support local initiatives.
Poor Intersectoral Program Coordination with Limited Public Participation and Impact: Low-level
public participation and inadequate mechanisms to secure such participation further characterize the
region. There is insufficient cooperation between and among sectors within countries, and between and
among the countries themselves. Environment-centered public education is virtually non-existent and
enforcement is weak. Little efforts has been undertaken to harmonize legal frameworks at the regional
level in order to protect the use of shared water resources. National and regional organizations do not
respond or adapt to rapidly changing circumstances. This poor adaptive capability makes it difficult, if
not impossible, to effectively and equitably manage shared water resources.
Governmental strategy
National Water Management Initiatives: Support for regional water management through the Lake Chad
Basin Commission is due to the existence, stability, and progress of a number of national-level
institutions as follows:
* Cameroon - the Ministry of Environment and Forests, which manages land and water resources,
including wetlands and protected areas;
* Central African Republic - the Direction of Hydraulics of the Ministry of Mines and Energy,
which formulates national water policy and will create a national water agency;
*   Chad - the National High Committee on the Environment, which includes the Prime Minister,
the Ministry of Environment and Water, and other ministers, has been strengthened as a result of
petroleum-related environmental management activities;
- 6-



*   Niger - the National Committee for the Environment and Sustainable Development, which
includes the Cabinet leader, ministers, civil society, university and NGOs, is the primary vehicle
for gathering and expressing community opinion on water resource management; and
*   Nigeria - the Federal Environmental Protection Agency is backed by the National Advisory
Council (made up of governmental organizations, private sector, NGOs, community
organizations, university) and by the National Council on the Enviromnent (States). Almost all
states in the Federation have prepared a long-term Environmental Action Plan. A National Water
Resources Master Plan (1995-2020) was prepared to protect the supply of water resources, and in
1993, a legal framework for the development of water resources was set up at the Ministry of
Water Resources.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the following sectoral issues previously mentioned above: Short-term Focus;
Non-existent or Unsuitable Water and Environmental Management Policies; and Poor Intersectoral
Program Coordination with Limited Public Participation and Impact. It will also address the following
strategic choices. It will strengthen existing regional mechanisms rather than create new ones. It will
work using each GEF IA's comparative advantage. It will build upon regional cooperation demonstrated
thus far in the preparation phase and in national water management capacity building initiatives in order
to design the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and SAP.  The parallel design and
implementation of the TDA, SAP and pilot projects will be implemented in order to stimulate public
participation, donor interest and confidence. The primary development objective will be to strengthen
capacity in the LCBC, by placing a project management unit (PMU) to work within and alongside it, to
work together in implementing the project, so that LCBC may be able to execute fully in Phase 2.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has three components:
Component 2:
*   Enhanced policy initiatives and institutional mechanisms to address transboundary issues;
*   LCBC members review and recommit to the institution;
* Lessons learned from different international waters GEF projects in the region;
*   Define and promote integration of transboundary water and environmental policies into national
development plans;
*   Review and recommend means to harmonize relevant national frameworks so as to get integrated
regional approach to long-term management of resources; and
*   Establish regional structures that review, harmonize and coordinate management of shared
resources and uses.
Component 5:
*   Pilot projects to test and validate methodologies, stakeholder involvement and implementation
modalities;
*   Formulating new institutional mechanisms to link regional, national and local planning
initiatives; and
*   Test, review and furither strengthen regional initiatives and the mechanisms by which these are
- 7 -



translated onto the ground.
Component 6.
*   LCBC strategic action plan endorsed with implementation methodologies validated on regional
level;
*   Finalization of TDA with regional agreement on SAP; and
*   Donor support mobilized for SAP and LCBC Plan implementation.
World Bank GEF Components
Indicative        Bank     % of    GEF    . %;of
Component                          Costs    % of  financing  Bank  financing  -GEF
(USSM)   Total  (USSM)  financing  (US$M) financing-
Enhanced Policies and Institutions          3.67    40.1    1.08     37.2     1.08   37.2
Pilot Projects                              4.05    44.3    1.46     50.3     1.46   50.3
TDA/SAP Finalization and Donor Coordination  1.43    15.6   0.36     12.4    0.36    12.4
0.0              0.0             0.0
0.00     0.0    0.00      0.0    0.00     0.0
0.00     0.0    0.00      0.0    0.00     0.0
Total Project Costs  9.15   100.0    2.90    100.0    2.90   100.0
Total Financing Required  9.15   100.0   2.90     100.0    2.90   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Although the project will not undertake national-level policy or institutional reforms, it will strengthen
existing regional policies and institutions to better manage the shared Lake Chad resources. This will
occur by drawing support from LCBC member countries in order to raise awareness of impacts at
regional level of national policies, and therefore, the need to harmonize national actions at the regional
level. This should, in turn, translate into stronger regional mechanisms and coherence, as voiced in the
SAP, and raise donor interest.
Links to policy and institutional change and renewal in each component are highlighted as follows: In
Component 2, the LCBC members will: (i) review and recommit to the institution; (ii) define and
promote integration of transboundary water and environmental policies into national development plans;
(iii) review and recommend means to harmonize relevant national frameworks so as to get integrated
regional approach to long-term management of resources; and (iv) establish regional structures that
review, harmonize and coordinate management of shared resources and uses. In Component 5, the pilot
projects constitute the country-identified most urgent priority actions, and since successful country and
LCBC efforts to implement these priority actions are deemed necessary to build donor confidence in the
region, implementation of the pilot projects should begin as soon as possible after project approval.
Formulating these new institutional mechanisms will link regional, national and local planning
initiatives. These pilots will test, review and further strengthen the regional initiatives, and the
mechanisms by which these are translated onto the ground. Component 6 will build upon the SAP design
process and existing regional cooperation and reach out to donors for further policy and institutional
dialogue.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefit. The primary regional benefit of this project is a stronger LCBC for the decision-making process
at the regional, national and local level. This should result in: (i) strengthened regional institutional
capacity for coordinated decision-making; (ii) local communities more empowered in managing the Lake
Chad and Fitri resources; (iii) design of an effective mechanism to translate regional policies at the local
level for managing the natural resources; and (iv) regional consensus and support for the next phase of
work as voiced in a SAP.
Target populations. (i) The LCBC will be stronger, as it will be able to build more commitment from
members, more capacity to implement projects, and serve its members efficiently; (ii) member
governments will have mechanisms in place with which to harmonize their activities, will be better
prepared to attract donor support and investment for next phase, and will perceive the benefits of
longer-term perspective; and (iii) local communities will be more involved in decision-making processes
to manage the natural resources that they depend upon.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project coordination. The Lake Chad Basin Commission is the executing agency for this 4-year project.
A project management unit will be established in N'Djamena in the LCBC, and will be staffed with a
Project Manager, Director of Administration and Finance, and other locally recruited personnel.
Procurement and disbursement will be handled by the United Nations Office for Project Support
(UJNOPS). UNDP will have direct oversight for the project coodination component.
Project monitoring and evaluation. LCBC will report to the Bank and be responsible for ensuring that
all GEF-funded activities are carried out in compliance with the project design and contracts. The
project will comply with monitoring and evaluation procedures as required for the Mid-Term Review and
Implementation Completion Report. The evaluation will rely on both qualitative and quantitative criteria
using Bank guidelines, "Monitoring and Evaluation of Program Impacts." Resources have been set aside
to support the conduct of both these evaluations by independent reviewers. The Mid-Term Review will
provide suggestions on possible improvement of the implementation plan and steps that could be taken to
ensure achievement of the project's goals in the remainder of the implementation period. The Mid-Term
review will be conducted during the first-half of the third year of implementation and the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) will be completed within six months of project completion. The Project
Inplementation Manual (PDA) will outline the review process.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements. The Project will comply with the "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank." This will include yearly
audits of the project management unit to be conducted by the UTNDP Office of Audit and Performance
Review, to be submitted to the World Bank and UNDP, per standard procedure. The Bank, together with
LCBC, will agree upon reporting requirements for financial monitoring reports (FMRs). Project progress
will be reported through annual, semi-annual and quarterly project progress reports, and an ICR.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
It should first be stated that the decision to bring the World Bank into the project as a GEF co-IA is in
itself a project alternative that was considered and accepted by GEF, UNDP, and LCBC on behalf of its
member states. The involvement of the World Bank was considered in order to engage its comparative
advantage, looking to the longer-term with the development of the SAP and with support of the Bank,
-9-



lead to a second phase and donor support for a broader investment package. The Bank was also engaged
so as to strengthen regional mechanisms for collaborative and coordinated management of Lake Chad
resources.
A primary structural decision criteria was to have pilot projects run parallel to the design of the TDA and
SAP rather than afterwards. This was due to the need to test the mechanisms and have stronger public
participation and ownership in the design process. Secondly, the decision to establish a PMU, in lieu of
having direct execution of the full project by the LCBC, was an important decision made during project
preparation discussions, and discussed again with the change of LCBC Executive Secretary. Given
LCBC's current capacity, the decision was to have LCBC focus their capacities on the organizational
review of roles and responsibilities, cross-project learning opportunities, hosting TDA and SAP
workshops, and learn from these processes, rather than fully engage on the project all at once. Therefore,
allowing the LCBC to participate in the project, but not carry the whole burden of implementation at
once. By Phase 2, in four years' time, it is anticipated that the LCBC will have more capacity and be
solely responsible for project implementation.
The selection of pilot projects was made by a LCBC-GEF project preparation steering committee, which
met twice. The pilots were selected from among a list of projects originally developed in the LCBC
Master Plan but modified in order to highlight transboundary and land and water degradation aspects.
Though more than five pilot projects were selected originally, the number was reduced to five pilots to
ensure financial feasibility, project realism, and the possibility to replicate successful outcomes later in
the full project phasing.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-flnanced projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Africa Region                    Niger River Basin GEF Project
Africa Region                    Senegal River Basin GEF
Project
Cameroon                         Forest and Environment Sector
Program
Cameroon                         Regional Environmental
Information Management
Program
Chad                             Rural Development Pilot
Niger                            Natural Resource Management      S            S
Niger                            Water Sector Project
Nigeria                          Water Rehabilitation Project     S            S
Nigeria                          National Fadama Development      S            S
Project I
Nigeria                          National Fadama Development
I
Nigeria                           Micro-Watershed and
Environmental Management
- 10 -



Project
Nigeria                          Urban Water Sector Reform
Project
Other development agencies
UNEP                             Niger-Nigeria Shared
Watersheds
DFID                             Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands
Restoration
Finland/multilateral             Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands
Project
The Netherlands/EU               Waza National Park and Yaere
Flood Plains
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project's design includes a number of lessons that have been learned from other GEF projects by the
LCBC staff and colleagues:
* A long-term approach is needed to ensuring sound management of shared water resources. The
project is working with existing regional mechanisms in the Lake Chad Basin to ensure that in the
long term they have the capacity and constituency to coordinate and harmonize national policies at
the regional level.
* Inclusive decision-making supports better water resource management. At the regional level, the
design of the SAP will be an inclusive process building upon existing regional cooperation. The
project will also elicit links to national institutions and activities and the pilots will bring users at the
local level into the decision-making process. The pilots will also test the mechanisms by which
regional policies will be translated on the ground.
* Political supportfirom riparian countries is needed to strengthen regional mechanisms. Recipient
countries are all LCBC members and are increasingly expressing their commitment to improving the
environmental management of Lake Chad. The project builds upon the long established institutional
infrastructure within the Basin, which complements existing national and local institutions. All
activities build upon existing networks established by the mernber countries.
* Linkages with other ongoing activities are necessary to optimize benefits for recipient countries.
The project design has links with other GEF IW projects in the region - Niger and Senegal - where
appropriate. Participation in the Africa Land and Water Initative (ALWI) program will also facilitate
cross-learning with other projects with similar land and water objectives, based in Ethiopia,
Madagascar, Limpopo (Mozambique), Niger, and so forth.
*  Capacity building is criticalfor effective decision-making and management at all levels. The project
objective is to build regional, national and local capacity to strengthen the decision-making process
for sustainable ecosystem-based management of Lake Chad's resources.
-I1 -



4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Recipient commitment. Funding of a full project from GEF and bilateral donors will serve a catalytic role
to augment what has already been a multi-country, regional organization, and multi-stakeholder effort.
The long-term commitment of the LCBC members, including Sudan, has been demonstrated by their
strong participation in unequivocal endorsement of efforts to better manage the Lake Chad Basin for over
a decade. These efforts include the UNEP/FAO/LCBC cooperative endeavours in developing a
diagnostic study and Master Plan, the GEF supported PDF-B, and their continuing, endorsement of the
LCBC's work. This commitment has occurred at the highest levels and has drawn on support from other
projects in the region. For example, through a decree signed by the Prime Minister on September 3,
1999, the Government of Chad established cross-sectoral institutional arrangements and mechanisms at
three levels of central coordination for water management (technical, strategic,and political) and paved
the way for other decentralized mechanisms and internalization of environmental and shared water
issues.
Recipient ownership. The LCBC member countries have demonstrated ownership of the project and its
objectives through their GEF focal points who have engaged in the project preparation and identification
of the pilot sites. And that several member countries have actively sought to ratify the Bureau of the
Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. For example, the Federal Government of Nigeria recently passed this
convention, with Lake Nguru now certified as a Ramsar site and thus eligible for certain types of external
funding.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank's added value is twofold in assisting riparian countries of the Lake Chad Basin to put in place
sustainable management practices of their transboundary water resources.  One, to support the
strengthening of regional mechanisms for water resources management. And two, to guide riparian
countries in leveraging funding for a SAP to be implemented in Phase 2 that would cement the benefits
derived from the current GEF project. The project's regional focus will make available financial
resources to meet "incremental costs" that will address transboundary issues by buying down the cost for
actions by the recipient countries. GEF funds will specifically assist in providing linkages and
harmonizing national and local actions with regional environmental objectives. Without the combined
regional experience of the Bank, UNDP and other actors, such as International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN), and the incremental resources of the GEF, the project's implementation
would proceed at a slower pace and would not fully benefit from the integration, coordination and
management actions promoted by this project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
Other (specify)
Consistent with GEF operational policy, requested GEF funds would only be used to finance incremental
costs associated with addressing transboundary costs in the Lake Chad Basin. The GEF Alternative
Scenario has evaluated a series of critical measures for transboundary management that require support
from GEF and other international sources to remove barriers to regional management of the Basin. The
- 12 -



project comprises some key activities needed to improve transboundary management of the freshwater
ecosystem. Support from GEF is necessary for transaction costs for cooperation to: (i) provide linkages
and develop common approaches to protect Lake Chad; (ii) facilitate strengthening of regional, national
and local planning initiatives for sustainable transboundary management; (iii) augment links among
existing water policy work in certain riparian countries that will feed into the GEF project; and (iv)
leverage donor support for the environmentally sustainable development of the Basin's transboundary
resources.
Incremental costs attached to this GEF project are linked principally to overcoming barriers to concerted
management of the Basin, completion of a TDA, and subsequent development and negotiation of the
SAP. The incremental cost of realizing these benefits have been estimated at US$33 million and are
additional to what each government could be reasonably expected to finance if national benefits alone
were included in the economic analysis. Overcoming the barriers has specific capacity-building
implications and associated costs that lie beyond the domestic baselines of riparian countries. Annex 4
presents a summary of domestic and global benefits and costs, together with a matrix of individual
country baseline and alternative costs associated with each project objective. The project complements
GEF investments made for the management of the Senegal and Niger river basins.
Incremental Costs. Total costs for the project are calculated at US$19.6 million (including US$693,500
of PDF-A, -B and -C funding) of which the GEF contribution is US$9.6 million and co-financing is
US$9.3 million, based on government contributions, anticipated GEF Implementing Agency inputs and
expressions of interest received from NGOs and bilateral donors. The co-financing calculation does not
include World Bank active and proposed projects, UNDP programs, and contributions from other
organizations that directly complement, and will assist in the execution of specific project components.
World Bank activities in the Lake Chad area in eleven projects to run concurrently with the GEF project
results in an additional co-financing of $74 million developed from a baseline of $712 million. These
projects are described in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Project Financing.  Funding the project within the context of the SAP will be ensured by the
commitment of all six governments and bilateral and multilateral donors who have expressed an interest
in supporting LCBC and the SAP process. Co-financing figures are indicative of the anticipated
participation of ongoing projects to related activities of the GEF-financed project. As an example,
UNDP is funding in Chad US$2.6 million in water and land resource projects. Ten percent of this
amount will be directed toward transboundary activities.
LCBC has an annual budget, funded by member states, of US$1.18 million, of which LCBC has
committed an equivalent percentage to be applied over the lifetime of the project (US$411,800). The
contribution in kind, accepted by the six governnents through their on-going projects, represents a total
of US$1.75 million. The total co-financing is US$9.3 million. The Government of the Netherlands,
through DGIS, is providing co-financing of US$1.97 million, and the UK through DfIDis providing an
additional US$4.69 million.
The German Cooperation Agency (BMZ) funded a LCBC's regional project "Study of the Chari-Logone
Groundwater Resources" for US$0.62 million, which recently closed. It is expected that outputs of this
project will be developed and used by the GEF-financed project. BMZ is preparing a follow-on project
which will work closely with the GEF project, but which cannot be included as co-financing due to its
- 13 -



early identification phase.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is finite in terms of approach, i.e. pilot activities will be sustained at community levels, while
capacity-building activities at the level of the member states and the LCBC will result in additional
human capacity and will not contribute to additional long-term incremental costs for these institutions.
3. Technical:
Technical issues are to be discussed in detail in the Annex 2, Detailed Project Description. They will
also be delineated in the Project Implementation Manual to be drafted with the Lake Chad Basin
Commission GEF team during the appraisal mission and finalized prior to negotiations.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project Management Unit. The Lake Chad Basin Commission, which was established in 1964, will
execute the World Bank managed portion of the project. The LCBC acts on behalf of LCBC member
countries, and is responsible to the World Bank (as the GEF Implementing Agency) and GEF to ensure
that applicable rules and procedures are adhered to.  The project described here is a pre-SAP
implementation project, which will emphasize completion of a TDA, the development of a SAP, which
will be implemented in a follow-on GEF project with substantial, additional country and donor
cofinance. As an inherent strategy within the project is to build national and regional capacity, especially
within the LCBC so that it is responsible for executing the SAP, a project management unit will be
established to work closely with the LCBC. LCBC will have overall responsibility for activities
associated with the pilot demonstration activities that are described in Annex 2, specifically coordination
responsibilities, such as monitoring and evaluation. A procurement assessment of the Lake Chad Basin
Commission was carried out by the World Bank in order to measure current institutional capacities.
Subsequently, a decision was made to augment LCBC capacities with UNOPS as executing agency.
UNOPS will establish a PMU, which will provide procurement and financial management support on the
basis of a Management Services Agreement (MSA), as has been signed between LCBC and UNDP. The
PMUJ staff will be housed at LCBC headquarters and comprise an internationally recruited Project
Manager, a regionally recruited Director of Administration and Finance, and other locally recruited staff.
4.2 Project management:
Project Steering Committee. The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be chaired by the Executive
Secretary of the LCBC, with one member designated from of the LCBC member state, and two
representatives of the LCBC staff. Additionally, the PSC will be comprise a representative of the two
GEF implementing agencies, one member from UNOPS, and the Project Manager, who shall serve as an
ex-officio member. Other members may be added to the PSC at the discretion of the PSC at any time.
The precise functions of the PSC are to be found in the Project Implementation Manual.
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committees. Each of the participating countries shall convene an
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee. The LCBC will assist the countries in this activity. Each
IMCC will coordinate country level activities necessary to the formulation of the Transboundary
Diagnostic Analysis and the Strategic Action Plan. As part of country specific TDA activities, each
country will formulate and prioritize its project-related, activities on a sector by sector basis. Further,
- 14 -



working with and through the Project's TDA formulation process, they will determine, in priority
sequence, the transboundary issues that confront the Lake Chad Basin as a whole. Each participating
country shall, with the assistance of the LCBC, name a Lead Country Official who will chair the IMCC.
Provision has been made for staff assistance to each of the designated Country Chairs. Limited financial
provision has also been made for meetings of each country IMCC.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement and Disbursement Agency. Given the LCBC's current limitations regarding financial
management, as described in Section 4.4 below, it was agreed that it would need additional support in
executing the project's procurement and disbursement needs. The execution and implementation
arrangements are as follows:
*   The Bank managed portion of the project will be executed by the LCBC. In order to demonstrate
best practice, however, it has been agreed with LCBC that a contractual arrangement
(Management Services Agreement) will be made between the LCBC and UNOPS for delivery of
Bank implemented GEF Project components, thereby, ensuring that the standard procedures for
the World Bank are followed.
*   UNOPS is directly executing the UNDP implemented components in cooperation with LCBC.
UNOPS will establish a project management unit at the LCBC in Ndjamena, staffed with
technical and managerial human resources. The PMU will provide technical and managerial
support to the LCBC in overseeing the implementation of the project. This PMU will be
responsible for contracting, fund  management, procurement, disbursement, program
administration and project level monitoring (see Annex  1).
As the project will be executed by UNOPS, and further as no procurement actions will be undertaken
directly by the LCBC, a procurement capacity assessment of the LCBC is not required. However, two
LCBC staff members, the Director of Administration and Finance and the Comptroller, have recently
taken Bank-certified procurement training in Dakar and Nairobi, respectively. The LCBC and the
N'Djamena World Bank Country Office worked together on several workshops during the PDF-C
preparation phase, which helped to build exposure to Bank procurement issues.
Procurement of works and goods financed will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995, and revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of services will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines
for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and
revised September 1997 and January 1999. The World Bank's latest editions of standard bidding
documents and contracts will be used.
Consultant Services. It is envisaged that a large percentage of the consultants used on this project will
be individual consultants, many of whom will be selected from the Lake Chad Basin countries, who will
work directly with specific aspects of the different components with both national and basin-wide teams
implementing those components. Consultant firms will be used primarily for major studies and training
exercises. Bank-managed resources budgeted for individual consultants amount to a total of $1.3 million.
It is not expected that consultant services will be bundled, although this may happen for the translation
and interpretation services.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Issues. A financial management assessment of the Lake Chad Basin Commission
has been undertaken as part of of the pre-appraisal. The findings of the assessment report are maintained
in the permanent files of the project. After the assessment was completed the decision was made to have
- 15 -



UNOPS implement the project. UNOPS will therefore produce the Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) and provide technical and managerial support to the PMU. No further financial management
assessment of UNOPS is required at this time.
LCBC Financial Management Capacity. During the pre-appraisal mission in January 2002, a Bank
Financial Management Specialist reviewed LCBC's financial management system.  Despite an
accounting system that is partially computerized, the assessment concluded that the current system
should be able to produce FMR. However, the system needs strengthening to be fully computerized.
Since its establishment, LCBC's financial statements have been audited by a Board of Auditors
comprising a representative of each member country. Concerning the audit of the financial statements as
of December 31, 2000, the auditors have expressed a qualified opinion due to the management of the
Social Security Fund.
The LCBC is staffed with professionals who are familiar with projects financed by donors, such as
UNDP, the Islamic Development Bank and the African Development Bank. To ensure that Phase 2 of
this project can be executed by the LCBC, its staff and that of the current project management unit have,
and will, receive formal financial management, procurement and disbursement training from the World
Bank. Therefore, the LCBC Director of Administration and Finance and the Comptroller attended two
procurement trainings, administered by the World Bank, in March and April 2002. In addition, the
LCBC has been advised to put in place a fully computerized accounting system in order to produce more
accurate financial statements by November 2004.
Financial Management System of the Project Management Unit. UNOPS will be responsible for
executing the financial management and procurement procedures of the respective implementing agency
(World Bank or UNDP) as applicable to the proper component or subcomponent. To start the project,
the PMU will put in place, assisted by UNOPS, a financial management system, which will be attempt to
both parallel that of LCBC and also be able to report to UNOPS and the respective lAs. Just as for
LCBC, the PMU has been advised that their system be fully computerized by the mid-term review date.
The World Bank and LCBC will sign a Grant Agreement, and, in tum, the LCBC will sign a
Management Services Agreement that will channel Bank administered funds directly to UNOPS.
Disbursements, based on justification papers, will be made directly to a project advance account in
N'Djamena. An annual audit will be done by external auditors, no later than six months after the closing
of the fiscal year. Financial management risks that currently exist will be offset by UNOPS's assistance
to the PMU and by regular Bank supervision missions.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This project has been assessed as a Category B project. The Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
has been written, circulated, and signed off by the appropriate environmental and social reviewers, sector
managers, and task team leaders. A joint World Bank-LCBC Environmental and Social Assessment was
conducted in the field in October 2001. The report was written in November 2001, circulated for
comment in December 2001, and a final version was cleared in January 2002. It has been translated into
French for circulation to LCBC member states. A short version of the Executive Summary was drafted
by the Department of Water Resources and Environment of the LCBC in English and French as a public
notice for circulation to LCBC member states for publication in national and local media outlets in
January 2002.
The environmental assessment, natural habitat, forestry, and international waterways safeguard policies
- 16-



were tagged as being possibly applicable to this project. All GEF projects trigger the Enviromnental
Assessment Operational Policy (OP). The Natural Habitats OP has been triggered due to the presence of
wetlands within the conventional basin and, more specifically, within several of the pilot project areas.
The Lake Chad Basin GEF project has worked with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Ramsar to
create preproject conditions of effectiveness for each Lake Chad shoreline country to designate their
shoreline as a transboundary Ramsar site in order to qualify for participation and thus funding
implementation in the local community resources component of the Lake Chad management plan pilot
project. This has specifically triggered the OP on Involuntary Resettlement as it pertains to reallocation
of resources within a protected area. The Lake Fitri pilot project will function similarly to the Lake Chad
shorelines pilot, but in a smaller scale, and also triggers the Involuntary Resettlement OP. Initial field
visit assessments conducted also found potential dam safety issues with the Maga (Chari-Logone pilot)
and Tiga Dams and Challawa Gorge (Komadougou-Yobe pilot).   A dam safety specialist has
subsequently visited these sites and has prepared a draft report, which has been disclosed to the
InfoShop, the LCBC, and member states. Safeguard policies, as applicable to the pilots, are summarized
below in tabular form:
- 17 -



World Bank Safeguard Policies Triggered by Pilot Project Interventions
Chari Komadougou-Yobe Niger-Chad Northem Lake Chad Lake   CAR
Logone      Bai     Basin              Shoreline  Fitri   Chad
Transboundary
4.01 Environmental Assessment        Applies to all pilot projects including co-financed components.
Requires public consultation and dissemination of conclusions
4.04 Natural Habitats                      Enhanced or no significant changes
4.30 Involuntary Resettlement (and  Although no one will be displaced or resettled, most pilots involve management plans,
OP/BP 4.12)                     which introduce or modify natural resource access rights.
4.37 Safety of Damns     Proposals to increase                Not applicable
releases from existing dams
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Components of the Environmental Management Plan include funds for conflict resolution training,
especially in areas with histories of conflict over access to resources, such as the Lake Fitri area. There
is also a component on Public Consultation which will be built into the member states as well as into the
Lake Chad Basin Commission, which will include drawing out stakeholder interests as part of its
development.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 7, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The stakeholders were consulted to the extent that they were visited during site visits by consultants hired
to prepare initial technical demonstration reports, as well as when the Environmental and Social
Assessment team travelled to the area of the pilot project during the period of October 2001. For the
demonstration projects of Chari-Logone and Komadougou-Yobe, these are established projects with
ongoing relationships between communities and project teams. For the other four proposed project sites,
consultation mechanisms have been to ask NGO or govemment contacts to call ahead and set up a
representative site to visit a day or two in advance. Then a small, joint LCBC-World Bank-UNDP team
would visit a community within the proposed pilot project area to assess the community's interest in the
overall development objective as well as the specific pilot project and the proposed mechanisms by
which that pilot would operate within the community's jurisdiction. A townhall meeting, a small group, a
visit to a family, an individual interview were all employed at some point.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Project objectives, outputs and emerging issues will be regularly reviewed and annually evaluated by the
Project Steering Committee (PSC). The project will be subject to various UNDP evaluation and review
mechanisms, including the Project Perfornance and Evaluation Review (PPER), the Tri-Partite Review
- 18-



(TPR), and an external Evaluation and Final Report prior to project ternination. It is expected that the
two Implementing Agencies will attempt to coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities to the
greatest extent possible. It is anticipated that the Scientific Technical Advisory Program (STAP)
committee will be instrumental in assuring the scientific quality and standard of project implementation
and reporting. The project will also participate in the annual Project Implementation Review (PIR) of the
GEF. Particular emphasis will be given to emerging GEF policies with regard to monitoring and
evaluation in the context of GEF IW projects. This document, and more specifically the logframe, will
be generally used to identify relevant Indicators, Stress Reduction, and Environmental Status Indicators
that will inform the M&E process and be adopted by the participating countries.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The greater conventional Lake Chad basin covers parts of five LCBC member states, over a surface area
covering from the headwaters of CAR to the northem borders of Lake Chad on the Niger-Chad edge.
The TDA-SAP process and several of the pilots, most notably the Lake Fitri and the Lake Chad
shorelines pilots, will address downstream and common property externalities, respectively, on basin
inhabitants as part of the project. The most specific social development outcome of the project is
LCBC's capacity assessment and technical skill set building so that LCBC can serve as a facilitator in the
region with its national level counterpart institutions. Also, the pilot projects have social issues as well,
and will have each social development outcomes. With respect to Lake Fitri, as there have been previous
conflicts between identified social groups in times of water stress, the pilot has a specific objective to
prepare these groups for conflict resolution. With respect to all three pilots, there are competing water
demands at work through implementation of a management plan in an area with multiple livelihoods
social development outcomes are to involve stakeholders in the decision-making process for
implementing the flow regime in the Waza Logone and Hadejia-Nguru pilots.
In the process of project preparation, World Bank screening concluded that, under OP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement) some of the pilots might involve physical resettlement of population. A Resettlement
Framework was therefore necessary in order to ensure that involuntary resettlement, which can be
traumatic, debilitating and financially crippling, is fully addressed. The guidelines are clear that there is
a need to involve communities in the planning and implementation of interventions that result from these
polices and in most cases this implies the need for a conflict resolution mechanism. Another reason that
the Resettlement Framework is required is because of the risk of dam failure. OP 4.12 was also triggered
because the project intends to designate protected areas (Ramsar sites), which could limit the availability
of resources within these sites for surrounding inhabitants. The instrument used to mitigate against
reduced access to resources within a protected area or national park is a Process Framework. Although
this does not relate to involuntarily displaced people, the effect is the same to the population (loss of
income, deterioration of standard of living). The nature of restrictions, as well as the type of measures
necessary to mitigate adverse impacts, is determined in consultation with the displaced persons during
project implementation. Both the Resettlement Framework and Process Framework which are funded
and available in English and in French, have been disclosed at the InfoShop, the LCBC and in the LCBC
members' First Commissioners offices, and are summarized in Annex 12. Additionally, a Dam Safety
Plan is summarized as Annex 13.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholder participation was a key and successful ingredient of work undertaken during the execution of
PDF-B activities. The current project proposal will build on and add to the level of public involvement
that began in the PDF-B phase. It will do this through the recruitment of stakeholders from the NGO
-19-



community, community and commercial fishers, herders, representatives from the agricultural sector, and
representation from the private sector, most particularly the petroleum  industry.  Stakeholder
participation will also be sought in the development and implementation of all other elements of the
project, with particular emphasis on various pilot demonstration projects and finalization of the TDA and
the SAP. The above discussion is relevant to Component 2. The Process Framework and Resettlement
Action Plan both include discussion of the methodology of identification of Project Affected Persons
(PAPs) to facilitate further stakeholder compensation at the level of the pilot projects, which are
Component 5. With respect to Component 6, key stakeholders are identified to be donors, as LCBC
member state governments, bilateral and multilateral funding agencies, NGOs, international financial
institutional, banking institutions, etc. These stakeholders are sought after in order to engage with the
LCBC and its member states for mutual benefit.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project collaborates with several international and local NGOs, most specifically on implementation
of several, if not all, of the pilot projects currently being prepared. The international NGOs and
Secretariats with whom we are engaged in an ongoing discussion include IUCN, WWF, the Bureau of the
Ramsar Convention, UNCCD, Green Cross International, and the Nigerian Conservation Foundation.
International NGOs have been engaged via several avenues: (i) as consultants who have close ties to the
NGO's work to prepare the pilot projects in the Lake Chad region; (ii) making project funds available for
NGOs to accompany World Bank and UNDP staff on missions; (iii) as full members on the Project
Steering Committee meetings during project preparation and in interim email, telephone, and office
consultations. Regarding the involvement of local NGOs, the UNDP pilot project Niger-Chad Northern
Basin may be executed by a consortium of regional NGOs led by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A transboundary analysis carried out in project preparation identified a set of hydro-environmental
issues, transboundary impacts and their principal causes. The causes are grouped into climatic and
human. A clear separation between cause and specific impact cannot be made, but it is important to note
that the primary climatic causes of lake decline, which is decrease in rainfall over the region, have
significant impacts on the population in the Lake Basin who rely upon lake and floodplain recession
agriculture, pastoralism and fisheries.  The third component of the project has as its objective
strengthened engagement of stakeholders. As the TDA and SAP processes are able to more clearly
delineate how community behaviors contribute to and detract from the well-being of the Lake, its surface
and groundwater sources, and the lands in those basins, the public participation program should be able
to educate and engage. Appropriate monitoring and evaluation indicators will be developed to measure
this outcome.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist will be employed during the first year of the Bank project to
develop a participatory M&E program, which will link the pilots to the rest of the components, as well as
to the UNDP components. (UNDP protocol, as outlined in Section 5.5, is the same for environmental
and social development outcomes).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
- ---:                  -_Policy                      I-    ~     Triggered
-20-



Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes (K) No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 * Yes (9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  ( )Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    ( Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                ( Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 ( ) Yes *No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes (No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            * Yes ( No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      () Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Environmental Management Plan, summarized in Annex 12, details additional funding provided the
project to manage compliance with applicable safeguard policies. Similarly, a framework Dam Safety
Plan, attached as Annex 13, sets out proposed first-stage mitigation measures to be reviewed by relevant
LCBC member states and project areas for agreement and co-financing.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Government Commitment. There has been consistent and committed effort from the LCBC headquarters
and member states in preparing and participating in national and regional workshops, working groups and
steering committees.
Financial Sustainability. The financial commitment of the riparian govemments is largely in-kind.
There has been recent renewed donor commitment to direct and related objectives of the GEF-financed
project as evidenced by assistance from the German BMZ, the EU, and the Islamic Development Bank.
Countries continue their financial commitment to the LCBC and contribute ten percent or more to each
project that has been the subject of donor assistance. As the project is implemented, the PMU and LCBC
will consult on an ongoing basis with the World Bank to seek IDA investment during the project
implementation and post-project period. The World Bank will be the lead GEF IA in organizing the
donor conferences through implementation of Component 6.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The PMU will work in isolation from the    M         Create incentives to balance project
LCBC.                                                implementation with LCBC institutional
capacity-building in Project Implementation
Manual.
LCBC member states do not realize          S         Strengthen role of LCBC and continue parallel
long-term benefits deriving from a                   national-level water resource management
regional approach to water use issues.               dialogue for concordance to LCBC agenda.
The LCBC works in isolation from           S         Identification and involvement of successful
- 21 -



local-level land and water resource                  community-based stakeholders and local NGOs
initiatives in Lake Chad Basin member                early during the Phase 1 process would help to
countries.                                           mitigate this risk. Involvement of local
successful NGOs in one or more pilot projects
would also mitigate this risk.
Data is not sufficient / appropriate in    N         LCBC and active bilaterals are experienced in
terms of quality and reliability for needs           this regard. Identification of data gaps,
of LCBC and basin countries.                         updating of hardware, and more open
dissemination of data to regional partners are
all areas of risk mitigation.
The pilot projects are not suffliciently   H         Executing agency arrangements are being
supported, in terms of financing,                    identified which can most directly work with
implementation and technical support, in             the local communities to serve their needs as
order to have meaningful results in terms            well as serve the interests of the basin.
of demonstrability and replicability.
Donor and IDA concurrent interest and      N         Constituency building is to occur within the
cofinancing in the project has been                  GEF project, which should encourage more
limited to date.                                     meaningfuil and focused dialogue with donors.
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Long-term success of regional scale management programs, such as the one proposed here depend, inter
alia, on the political willingness of participating countries to cooperate, to continue project programs and
approaches after the life of the GEF intervention, and the extent to which activities successfully engage
end users at the community level. In relation to political willingness, the level of project risk is seen as
moderate. Participating countries have few economic resources, have witnessed recent national and
regional strife and, with the continuing drought, lack of donor support and short-term priorities (such as
human health, education, basic sanitation, and nutrition) it is difficult to focus on what appears to be
long-term environmental imperatives. This situation is somewhat mitigated, however, by a growing
realization on the part of the countries that environmental sustainability is inextricably linked to food
production, tourism, sanitation, population movements, and thus, regional stability.
This growing realization has led the countries to effectively participate in the work undertaken during the
Diagnostic Study, Master Plan, the PDF-B and, subsequently, in other endeavours. There is growing
evidence to support a conclusion that the countries, notwithstanding the focus on short-term priorities at
the expense of environmental integrity, are increasingly committed to a regional approach to shared
environmental concerns as a means of ensuring sustainability of their fragile resources. Political will and
cooperation were expressed for the project and its aims by country participation in, and high-level formal
endorsement of the results of the Diagnostic Study, the Master Plan, and the PDF-B Strategic Action
Plan.
The risk of GEF project programs, and activities related to them, ending after the life of the project are
seen as moderate. It is unlikely that the countries can, without greater donor support than is now the
case, sustain project efforts. The ability of the countries, with GEF assistance, to solicit enhanced donor
support will be crucial to sustainability of project efforts.
- 22 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The LCBC is actively pursuing an inter-basin water transfer project. At the last LCBC Summit, the
Heads of State agreed to contribute US$1 million to fund a feasibility study and also directed the
Executive Secretary to pursue donor support. The goals and objectives of the inter-basin water transfer
project are often in conflict with those of the GEF project, though they need not be. It is precisely the
role of the LCBC to manage multiple use within its jurisdiction. Accordingly, the GEF affiliated partners
and LCBC staff have had frank and productive discussions on this matter, and intend to continue to
discuss the prospect of managing both environmental concems as well as increasing agricultural and
urban water demands.
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*      Recruitment of the Project Manager and the Director of Administration and Finance;
*      LCBC has entered into a Management Services Agreement for project services execution
satisfactory to the Bank;
*      Preparation of the Project Implementation Manual by LCBC in form and substance acceptable to
the Bank; and
*      Yearly audits of LCBC accounts to be disclosed to the implementing agencies.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Mid-term review will take place before November 1, 2004. LCBC must provide estimated budgets and
work programs for the Bank review by October 31st, and finalize the budgets, taking the Bank comments
into account, by December 31st of each year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[E1 1. b) Not applicable.
[ 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
E 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
D 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
- 23 -



The Bank's new policy on Standard Disbursement Percentages (SDP) requires that disbursement
percentages for consultants and PMU staff be downwardly adjusted to take into account estimated
income/profit tax obligations arising in the borrower's country. The SDP policy allows an exception for
projects in which the recipient of the financing holds a non-profit designation under the local law. This
is the case for this project and therefore, the SDPs for Chad have not been used.
".7~~~~~S
Tracy Hart                  J8    Inger Andersen              J;    li Khadr
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                   Country Manager/Director
-24-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends In the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Key Performance           Datai CollecUon-Strategy
Hierarchy of, Objectives              Indicators_                                           Critical iAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Goal: Poverty alleviation  Per capita income.           National assessments and      (Goal to Bank Mission)
through environmentally and                                 socioeconomic survey data.     National Environmental Action
socially sustainable economic                                                              Programs are effectively
growth.                                                                                   imnplemented.
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Poverty indicators.                                          Govemment adopts and expands
Improve environmental                                                                      this approach
management and assessment.    Adherence to intemational
conventions.
GEF Operational Program:      Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Achieve global environmental                                                               Over time, the full range of
benefits through implementation                                                            technical, economic, financial,
of Intemational Waters (IW)                                                                regulatory, and institutional
projects which integrate the use of                                                        measures necessary to protect the
sound land and water resource                                                             intemational waters enviromnent
management strategies.                                                                     are taken by collaborating
countries to accompany the
leveraged development assistance
of regular programns of the two
GEF lAs, intemational
co-funding of investments, and
private sector action.
Recipient and donor countries
commit funding for needed
baseline and additional actions.
Lessons leamed are put into
practice by countries
-25 -



Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Qbjectives              Indicators    -                                      Critical Assumptions
Global Objective:             Outcome I Impact             Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Sustainable management of Lake  Increased numbers of       PMU documents - sign-in sheets, Continued country comnuitment
Chad through constituency     stakeholders involved in local and LCBC committee meetings, etc.  to a regional approach.
building, capacity building,  transboundary water resource
awareness raising to get riparians management issues, ability to
to work together on Lake Chad  influence decision making
processes as a result;
Increased awareness of the impact PSC Meeting agendas and  Project capacity to adequately
of national policies on shared  minutes                    conceptualize and implement
water resources by constituency                            community based approaches for
groups;                                                    pilot demonstration projects.
A stronger constituency for the  Implementation support for three Project committee and work  Key regional institutions and
LCBC among its member         pilot projects;              group meeting agendas and     national governments working
countries                                                  minutes                       cooperatively.
Completion and adoption of the  Publicize monitoring / progress Negative changes in economic
Strategic Action Plan, with a  reports                     political and social conditions
framework, timeline, and action                            may detract from country
plan for implementation of                                 commitment to a regional
priority activities;                                       approach.
Increased donor interest in and  Financing plan for
support for the SAP and LCBC  implementation of priority
Plan implementation;          activities in SAP
-26 -



-  - Key, Perfomance j- -Dat Coliection Strategy             .
Hierarchj, of Objectivos      -       ndicators                        I                  Critical Assumptions
Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
2. Enhanced transboundary     2. New and updated national  2. Updated national water policies 2. Countries see the long-term
institutional mechanisms      water policies in each country that and NAPs.              benefit deriving from a regional
take into account transboundary                            approach to water use issues. The
water issues, encourage       Approved work plans for review  risk is that individual countries
environmental protection and are  of relevant legal frameworks.  will give priority to those uses
incorporated into National Action                          that accrue to the greatest
Plans (NAPs).                 Approved workplan for review of domestic benefit without taking
the functions and authorities of  into account downstream
Specific recommendations to  the LCBC.                     interests.
effect changes in existing relevant
legal frameworks to enhance   Written report and           Strengthening the role of the
prospects for an integrated  recommendations for effective  LCBC is crucial to mitigating this
regional approach to long-term,  changes in existing legal  danger.
sustainable basin management.  frameworks.
Countries may seek to develop
Specific, country-endorsed, and  Written recommendations and  altemative, bi-lateral approaches
implemented proposals to create a country-commitment to bring  to resolving existing and future
more effective LCBC.          about a more effective LCBC.  potential disputes rather than
taking a broader regional
Improved, regional agreements to Written, country-endorsed  approach. Again, strengthening
improve transboundary         agreements with specific     the role of the LCBC is crucial to
management of power generation, mechanisms to improve the extent obviating the risk
irrigation, downstream riparian  to which transboundary
considerations, fisheries, water  considerations, especially  Countries will not be willing to
quality and effluent standards,  downstream, are taken into  make national legislative or
diversions and consumptive uses, account in power generation,  regulatory changes that are
and creation of economic     irrigation, and other water uses.  narrowly targeted to one portion
instruments.                                               of the country.
Written, country-agreed
Country-agreed, regionally-based methodology for the conduct of  Countries develop regional
methodology for the conduct of  EIS.                        approaches that minimize the
environmental impact studies.                              extent to which existing country
Agendas and minutes of relevant  wide legislation needs to be
PMU and IMCC meetings.        altered.
Interviews at targeted sites with
key, affected stakeholders
5.2 Execution of Lake Fitri   5.2 Workshops in communities  5.2 Summary of previous work in 5.2 Absence of local-level
demonstration pilot in order to  to identify gaps in management  Lake Fitri area within 2-3 months. conflict between parties.
demonstrate the               plan, in terms of knowledge gaps, Meetings held in key Lake Fitri  Subsidence of project fatigue in
"cross-pollination function" of  consensus gaps, hotspots, etc.  communities, with records kept of Lake Fitri area. Variable means
conservation and development, in Determination of initial   dialogue and all opinions. A  of transport to Lake Fitri sites in
the context of a small Sahelian  communities as sites for priority  published plan document, to be  rainy season. Proper coordination
water body.                   community financed activities.  made available. Public notice of  with executing agency and local
Expansion of community-based  project activities and application  govemmental agencies.
development activities outward  process. Audit of application  Community interest in
from initial sites.           process received as part of   development activities / GEF
Stakeholder communication     Tripartite Review and Mid Term  interest in conservation activities
established. Plan for lake and  Review. Cross-check with SAP
shoreline management for length  and TDA processes
of project vetted in communities.
Conversion of management plan
into list of possible activities for
financing. Framework for
- 27 -



application program for
expanding program to Lake Fitri
commnunities. Selection of
community-based development
activities in the Lake Fitri
catchment area which reduce
poverty and threats to
conservation values.
Community activities with clear
development and conservation
objectives, including sustaminable
agricultural and natural resource
management practices;        5-5 (K--Y) Reports and maps of
wetlands evolution in the basin.
5.5 (K-Y) Efficient water    5-5 (K-Y) Operational model  Map flood extent prepared.   5-5 (K-Y) Appropriate modules
allocation options analysis of the  flows release prepared and  Integrated water management  and trainings provided to relevant
Komadougou-Yobe basin.       calibrated. Hydrodynarnic model plan prepared. Eco-monitoring  stakeholders. Inclusiveness of
Threatened wetlands areas    upgraded. Wetlands guidelines  reports available for wetlands.  relevant institutions and
identified and efficient     adopted and disseminated.    Timely collection and availability stakeholder groups. Means and
management activities developed. Agreement on water allocation  of hydrological information.  capacity to undertake data
Wetlands use option guidelines  and release among institutions  Water resource uses and demands collection and dissemnination.
prepared.                    and stakeholders. Improved   reports.                     Commitment of relevant
management activities in wetlands                        institutions and stakeholders.
sites. Fisheries ponds developed.                         Capacity and resources to identify
Protocol on fishery practices and                         those areas. Successful
technology prepared and                                  involvement of stakeholders in
approved. Redesign of efficient                          the preparation of the guidelines.
water uptake structure for Kano  5.5. (W-L) Protocol of fishery
City Water Supply prepared.  practices and technology prepared
5.5 (W-L) An equitable and                                and approved. National parks use 5.5. (W-L) Technical capacity
timely allocation and distribution  5.5 (W-L) Workshops for  and conservation guidelines  and resources to prepare this
of water resource in the sub-basin stakeholders to develop policies  adopted and disseminated,  assessment. Inclusiveness of
in place and its institutional  and guidelines. An agreement  Improved management and  relevant of relevant stakeholder
framework established, with use  upon water resources     conservation practices in selected groups and institutions in decision
options and conservation     management plan by relevant  Chari-Logone Basin areas.    making process. Capacity and
incentives of floodplain, Waza  stakeholder groups established.  Access to periodical report on the resources to identify those areas.
and Kalamaloue national parks  Flood pulse of Waza-Logone  water and related resources,  Stakeholders involved in the
developed.                   floodplains improved through  guidelines on water allocation and design of biodiversity
additional openings, canal   uses for stakeholders. List of  management framework.
construction, pond excavation as  trained participants.   Successful involvement of
needed. Conflict management                               stakeholders in the preparation of
framework for water resources                            the guidelines. Appropriate
user groups in place. At risk                             modules and trainings provided to
floodplain areas and WNP &                                relevant stakeholders.
KNP sites identified and mapped.                          Inclusiveness of relevant
Biodiversity management tested  5.6 Pilot yearly evaluation  institutions and stakebolder
in the WNP & KNP.            reports, UNDP and World Bank  groups.
5.6 Lessons learned from pilots                           as well as with bilateral donor,
midstream into SAP process   5.6 Pilots represented at SAP  where relevant. GEF-specific  5.6 Parallel process of launching
planning workshop. SAP       monitoritng and evaluation   pilot implementation and
consultant visits to pilot sites.  criteria.              TDA/SAP draws
cross-fertilization.
6. Hold two donor conferences  6. Two donor conferences   6. Relevant agendas and minutes 6. A key assumption is that
and increased donor participation  planned and executed on: (i) Lake of the PMU and the PSC.  suitable levels of cooperation can
throughout the life of the project  Chad basin management and  Regional strategy formulation.  be established and maintained
and beyond.                  political process and (ii) SAP                            between the UNDP and the WB
activity funding. Systematic                              and that the LCBC and
procedure established to use the                          participating countries will be
GEF project to leverage other                             actively involved in preparation
donors for direct and indirect                            and attendance of donor
- 28-



support to project activities.                             conferences. This assumption
Increased donor support for direct                         seems well-grounded in that IA
and indirect assistance to project                         cooperation has already begun
related activities.                                        between this project and other
projects in the region under the
auspices of both the UNDP and
the World Bank.
Project Components /          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                 Outputs)
2. Enhanced Mechanisms (World $1.08 M
Bank)
5. Demonstration Projects     $1.46 M
(World Bank)
6. SAP and LCBC Plan          $0.36 M
Inplementation (World Bank)
-29 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin
Ecosystem
A.     Overview
Lake Chad basin(s). Lake Chad is Africa's fourth largest lake. Its surface area changes in accordance
with inflows and from a peak of 25,000 sq.km, it is now approximately 2,000 sq.km, and the average
depth is only 1.5 m. Though the topographic basin extends over 2.3 million sq.km, the hydrologically
active basin is less than half that area at 0.97 million sq.km. A further delimitation, "the conventional
basin,"arose with the signing, in 1964, of the Convention for the Lake Chad Basin Commission by four
riparian countries - Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria. With Central Africa Republic joining in 1994,
a "new conventional basin" was delimited that matches the hydrologically active basin as it now includes
the Chari-Logone and Komadougou-Yobe river systems. Currently, Sudan, which shares the Basin's
deep fossil aquifers on its westem border with Chad, is in the process of becoming the sixth member.
Socio-economic dependency. The Lake Chad Basin's development situation is characterized by the
twin issues of poverty and environmental fragility. Over 20 million people, who lack viable alternatives,
are dependent upon the Lake Chad resources to support a wide range of economic activities, including
recession agriculture, pastoralism, forest regeneration, fish breeding and production, and
drought-fall-back security. This population is expected to rise to 35 million by 2020. Human
development indicators, per capita, such as mean GDP, food production and daily calorie intake, are all
decreasing in the region despite increases in the developing world.
Ecosystem fragility. Lake Chad is the second largest wetland in Africa, and together with its associated
wetlands, hosts a biodiversity of global significance. For example, it hosts over 370 inventoried bird
species, of which a third are migratory; endangered species, such as the Lake Lere manatee and endemic
plants of agronomic importance threatened with extinction, that are only found in the Basin; and a
biosphere reserve - Waza National Park in Cameroon. The ecological and economic integrity of the
Basin is being threatened by the large decrease in the Basin's hydrological yield. This has been induced
by long-term reductions in mean rainfall in the region, coupled with the impacts of burgeoning human
demands upon land and water resources. If transboundary issues are not addressed, direct and indirect
threats to this intemational water body will result in the progressive breakdown of the hydrological and
ecological integrity of the Lake Chad Basin system.
Lake Chad Basin Commission. The Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC), which was established in
1964 by the four countries who bordered the lake (Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria) with the signing
of the Fort Lamy Convention. Central African Republic (CAR) joined the LCBC in 1994, and brought
with it the Chari-Logone and Komadougou-Yobe river systems. Further expansion is anticipated with
the Sudanese Govemment as prepares to ratify the LCBC Convention in Parliament.
Mandate. The LCBC is mandated to: (i) collect, evaluate and disseminate information on projects
prepared by member states and recommend plans for conimon projects and joint research programs in the
Lake Chad Basin; (ii) promote regional cooperation and coordination of regional programs; and (iii) plan,
execute and follow-up of national projects with regional significance.
- 30 -



Institutional management structure. The LCBC's organization structure is headed by member countries'
Heads of State who convene every two years, and the 10th summit was held in July 2000 in Chad. The
structure also includes a Council of Ministers, a Technical Committee of Specialists, and a Secretariat,
which has an Executive Secretary, an Assistant Executive Secretary, and four Divisions each headed by a
Director from a member country. Member states also second staff to the LCBC.
Funding Mechanisms. Contributions to the LCBC from its member countries are based upon a payment
formula: Cameroon gives 26 percent; Chad gives 11 percent; Central African Republic gives 4 percent;
Niger gives 7 percent; and Nigeria gives 52 percent. The Commission's development budget is used to
service the counterpart components of regional projects financed by external donors, who also provide
technical assistance. A fund of USS100 million was set up by member states to finance development
projects.
Focusing upon water resources. The Commission's strategy and work program have recently been
changed so as to concentrate on water-related and regional projects. The member countries aim make a
total of 2.5 million hectares (9,650 square miles) a protected area. In August 2000, member countries
signed an agreement to conserve Lake Chad and make it a Ramsar site. While the LCBC appears to have
a good institutional foundation, it is likely to remain dependent upon external support, particularly for the
enhancement of its planning capabilities in water resources.
Strengthening regional management mechanisms. Socio-economic pressures on the region's limited
water resource base have resulted in significant levels of investment in water infrastructure in riparian
countries. Though reliant on the water resources of the same basin, this development has been
uncoordinated at the regional level, and questions remain regarding the sustainability of the investment,
its uses to ensure food security and sound water management at the regional level. Uncoordinated
development within the Basin poses a threat to the resource base. Therefore, to reduce stress to the
international waters environment, it is important to promote coordinated water management policies and
activities at the national level by strengthening the regional mechanisms. Therefore, this project will
augment and expand existing regional dialogue on the management of Lake Chad by building capacity in
the LCBC, and facilitating further cooperation between it and riparian countries. The project will also
provide linkages with ongoing programs in the region and implement priority actions that address
transboundary environmental issues, to achieve sustainable development and use of the Lake Chad's
resources.
Riparian countries and cooperating parties. The recipient countries include five of the Lake Chad
Basin riparians - Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria. The cooperating
parties include the Lake Chad Basin Commission, Germany, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, UTNDP,
IUCN and WWF. Project preparation has been coordinated with the LCBC, UNDP, IUCN and WWF.
Project goals and objectives. The project will facilitate the development of a broad based constituency
for regional mechanisms to ensure the LCBC member countries collaborate and coordinate their use of
the Lake Chad resources. This it will do by: (i) building awareness of how national policies impact on
regional resources, and capacity among riparians and stakeholders; (ii) augmenting the existing
constituency through the design of a SAP; (iii) facilitating donor coordination; (iv) collaborating with
ongoing work supported by other donors; and (v) drawing on lessons learned on regional water
management by coordinating with the GEF projects in the Senegal and Niger river basins.
Project components. The project has three components. (To remain consistent with the overall GEF
project, the components are numbered as shared with UNDP). Therefore, the Bank is responsible for
- 31 -



Component 2, parts of Component 5 and Component 6. The budget is US$2.9 million to be implemented
over a four-year period (but five fiscal years) from 2003 to 2007. The components feed into one another,
and the overall strategy of strengthening regional mechanisms for joint management of Lake Chad.
*  Component 2 - Enhanced regional policy initiatives and institutional mechanisms to address
transboundary issues (US$1.08 million)
Activity 2.1  Review current functions and responsibilities of the LCBC;
Activity 2.2  Identify national actors in water resource and related land and environmental policy
implementation;
Activity 2.3  Coordinate activities with other related GEF projects;
Activity 2.4  Define and promote the integration of transboundary water and environmental
policies into the National Action Plans;
Activity 2.5  Assess relevant legal frameworks in each country; and
Activity 2.6  Establish regional structural arrangements for participating countries to review,
harmonize and coordinate frameworks, regulations and approaches to ensure
improved management of transboundary resources.
*  Component 5 - Creation of regional programs and initiation of pilot projects (US$1.46 million)
Activity 5.2  Lake Fitri pilot project (US$0.5 million);
Activity 5.5(a) Komadougou-Yobe pilot project (US$0.48 million);
Activity 5.5(b) Chari-Logone pilot project (US$0.48 million); and
Activity 5.6  Lessons learned from pilots projects as input into the SAP process (US$50,000).
*  Component 6 - Strategic Action Plan designed and endorsed (US$0.36 million)
Activity 6.1  Develop and implement a plan for continuing donor contact;
Activity 6.2  Plan and implement 2 donor conferences, one shortly after GEF project approval and
one immediately prior to SAP implementation;
Activity 6.3  Present the TDA and the SAP to the Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committees and
the LCBC and formalize a regional agreement on the SAP; and
Activity 6.4  Develop donor conference reports and prepare a strategy for ongoing project funds.
The performance indicators for these phases are summarized in Annex 1.
B.     Project Management and Administration
Project Management Unit. LCBC is the recipient institution of grant funds to be implemented by both
the World Bank and UNDP on behalf of the GEF. For the World Bank, these funds are managed through
a Management Services Agreement (MSA), between LCBC and UNDP, with UNOPS named as
executing agency. This choice of an executing agency is a result of a procurement assessment, as was
carried out by the World Bank in 2002. UNOPS will execute one of the UNDP components by
establishing a Project Management Unit, which will then serve as an executing agency linkage to all
components. The LCBC, recipient institition and faciliating agency, will act on behalf of LCBC member
countries, and be responsible to the World Bank (as the GEF IA) and GEF to ensure that applicable rules
and procedures are adhered to. The project described here is a pre-SAP implementation project, which
will emphasize completion of a TDA, the development of a Strategic Action Plan, which will be
implemented in a follow-on GEF project (Phase 2) with additional country and donor cofinance.
As an inherent strategy within the project is to build national and regional capacity, especially within the
- 32 -



LCBC so that it becomes responsible for executing the SAP, the PMU will work closely with the LCBC.
The PMU will provide technical and managerial support to the LCBC in overseeing the project's
implementation. This PMU will be responsible for contracting, fund management, procurement,
disbursement, program  administration and project level monitoring.  LCBC will have overall
responsibility for the activities associated with the pilot demonstration activities that are described in this
document; specifically, coordination responsibilities such as monitoring and evaluation. The PMU staff
will be housed at LCBC headquarters and comprise an internationally recruited Project Manager, a
regionally recruited Director of Administration and Finance, and other locally recruited staff.
Procurement and Disbursement Agency. In January 2002, a Bank Financial Management Specialist
reviewed LCBC's financial management system. Though the LCBC currently uses the Bank's 1995
revised "Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook," its financial management system
needs strengthening. For example, despite being audited annually (the auditors have a qualified opinion
on the accounts), LCBC does not do an annual inventory of its assets (of which it does not have a written
record), nor a periodic and physical inventory of available funds. Despite an accounting system that is
only partially computerized, it is updated daily and financial statements are prepared on time. However,
statement of expenses are missing, and it is difficult to check the LCBC's account balance.
Given these current limitations it has been agreed that LCBC will need additional support in the
execution of the project. Therefore, the execution and implementation arrangement is that the project
will be executed by LCBC. In order to demonstrate best practice, however, it has been agreed with
LCBC that a contractual arrangement (Management Services Agreement) will be made between LCBC
and UNOPS, thereby ensuring that the Bank's standard procedures for project procurement and
disbursement are followed.
However, to ensure that Phase 2 can be executed by the LCBC, its staff and that of the current project
management unit have, and will receive formal financial management, procurement and disbursement
training from the World Bank. In addition, the LCBC has been advised to put in place a fully
computerized accounting system in order to produce more accurate financial statements by November
2004.
Project Steering Committee. The Project Steering Committee will be chaired by the Executive Secretary
of the LCBC, with two members designated from each LCBC member states, and two LCBC staff
members. Additionally, the PSC will be comprise a representatives of the two GEF LAs, one member
from UNOPS, and the Project Manager, who shall serve as an ex-officio member. Other members may
be added to the PSC at its discretion at any time.
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating  Committees.  Each  participating  country  shall convene an
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee. The LCBC will assist countries in this activity. Each IMCC
will function to coordinate country level activities necessary to the formulation of the Transboundary
Diagnostic Analysis and the Strategic Action Plan. As part of country specific TDA activities, each
country will formulate and prioritize its project related, country specific activities on a sector by sector
basis. Further, working with and through the project TDA formulation process, they will determine, in
priority sequence, transboundary issues that confront the Lake Chad Basin as a whole. Each participating
country shall, with the assistance of the LCBC, name a Lead Country Official who will chair the IMCC.
Provision has been made for staff assistance to each of the designated country chairs. Limited financial
provision has also been made for meetings of each country IMCC.
By Component:
- 33 -



Project Component I - US$ million
Project Component 2 - US$1.08 million
C.     Project Component 2: Enhanced regional policy initiatives and institutional mechanisms to
address transboundary issues
Introduction.
The need for regionally coordinated development. In the Lake Chad Basin, national development has
occurred without consultation or coordination across borders. The countries of the Lake Chad Basin
recognize that such uncoordinated development is unsustainable in terms of investment, socio economic
and ecosystem welfare. Yet, the need for development remains as strong as it has in the past, if not
stronger, with the population dependent upon the Basin expected to rise to 35 million by 2020. Riparian
countries of the Basin recognized that they needed to coordinate their national plans and actions with
each other at the regional level.
Strengthening existing regional mechanisms. Since 1964, four of the riparian countries (Cameroon,
Chad, Niger and Nigeria) have had a regional mechanism, the Lake Chad Basin Commission. This
mechanism was further strengthened with the inclusion of the Central African Republic in March 1994,
and more recently with Sudan expressing interest in joining LCBC. The Commission has been mandated
with broad provisions relating to prior notification, monitoring of studies and works related to water
resources, and the authority to examine complaints and to contribute to the resolution of differences
among member countries. However, in practice, the countries have, from time-to-time, turned to other
authorities to address issues on the conventional basin without LCBC's involvement, even though the
issues to be addressed fell within its mandate. But now, with a renewed interest in regional coordination,
member countries have agreed to undertake a review of the Lake Chad Basin Commission. If the LCBC
is to assume a leadership role in the next phase - SAP implementation - its responsibilities, prerogatives,
and resources must be adequate to the task.
Activities. The activities within Component 2 aim to enhance regional policy initiatives and institutional
mechanisms to address transboundary issues during and beyond the life of the project by: (i) reviewing
current functions and responsibilities of the LCBC; (ii) identifying national actors in water resource and
related land and environmental policy implementation; (iii) coordinating activities with other related
GEF projects; (iv) defining and promoting the integration of transboundary water and environmental
policies into the National Action Plans; (v) assessing relevant legal frameworks in each country; and (vi)
establishing regional structural arrangements for participating countries to review, harmonize and
coordinate frameworks, regulations and approaches to ensure improved management of transboundary
resources.
Activity 2.1: Reviewing current functions and responsibilities of the LCBC
* Review LCBC's current functions and responsibilities - report by an river basin institution
expert;
* Workshop with member countries to discuss report and how they want LCBC to serve them.
Record recommendations;
* Based upon recommendations, outline areas where LCBC needs capacity strengthening; and
* Conference of member countries - put recommendations to the Council of Ministers (COM) and
discuss means of ensuring LCBC has sufficient financing for operations.
- 34 -



Activity 2.2: Identifying national actors in water resource and related land and environmental policy
implementation
*   Workshop in each country (6 workshops) to identify national actors involved in water and natural
resource management. Together with LCBC, brainstorm how each can better support the other
in transboundary water resources management. Include one-day seminar and exercise on
coordinating water use regionally and the alternatives of unilateral use; and
*   Establish a network from country counterparts, with whom LCBC liase regularly.
Activity 2.3: Coordinating activities with other related GEF projects
*   Lessons learned workshop - LCBC invites project management staff from  other GEF
international waters projects in the region (Niger, Senegal and Volta basins) to learn from their
experience. LCBC and the Lake Chad PMU explore the need for technical exchanges and field
visits; and
*   Form a network with other regional GEF international waters projects so they can draw on their
advice during the different phases of implementation.
Activity 2.4: Defining and promoting the integration of transboundary water and environrmental policies
into the National Action Plans
*   Workshops in each country (6 workshops), with country networks that were established in
Activity 2.2, to define each country's National Action Plans (NAP) and priority issues vis-a-vis
transboundary waters. Brainstorm on how to integrate and promote transboundary water and
environmental management into NAPs.
Activity 2.5: Assessing relevant legal frameworks in each country
*   Report by river basin institutional expert and international water lawyer to assess current,
relevant agreements, protocols, conventions statutes and other relevant legal frameworks in each
country, including recommendations for incentives and harmonized legal frameworks to enable
an integrated regional approach toward long-term management of the Basin's resources.,
Activity 2.6:  Establishing regional structural arrangements for participating countries to review,
harmonize and coordinate frameworks, regulations and approaches to ensure improved management of
transboundary resources
*   Workshops (6 national) with country networks and LCBC to review and coordinate regulatory
frameworks and approaches on transboundary issues such as power generation, irrigation,
downstream riparian considerations, fisheries, water quality and effluent standards, diversions
and consumptive uses, and the creation and use of economic instruments. Each workshop makes
recommendations; and
*   A regional workshop - to review recommendations from the national workshops and find
consensus on regional approach.
Project Component 5 - US$1.46 million
D.     Project Component 5: Creation of regional programs and initiation of demonstration
projects.
Given that this is a pre-SAP implementation project, it is imperative to ensure that the Lake Chad basin,
its Commission and member countries are better placed to further engage in regional management of
their shared water resources. One step in this process is to test methodologies in the design of
-35 -



mechanisms that form the backbone of future work at the regional level. Thus, three pilot projects are
being implemented early in the project so as to elicit lessons that can be incorporated into the design of a
basin-wide strategic action program. The pilots are in the following areas - Lake Fitri (activity 5.2), the
Komadougou-Yobe basin (activity 5.5a) and the Waza-Logone floodplain (activity 5.5b). Lessons will
be drawn from these experiences for inclusion in the SAP design in activity 5.6.
Activity 5.2  Lake Fitri Management Plan
Introduction. A normally permanent, freshwater, Sahelian lake, fed by seasonal rainfall and runoff from
the seasonal Batha river, Lake Fitri, in Chad, has a surface area of 30,000 ha during the dry season and is
part of a larger biosphere reserve covering 195,000 ha. In 1987, the lake was designated a Ramsar site,
and in 1990 a biosphere reserve. Unlike Lake Chad, Lake Fitri is one of the very few Sahelian water
bodies that has yet to undergo a large-scale hydrological change, though it became desiccated in 1984-85
during a period of severe drought.
It is considered to be a mini Lake Chad because of similarities, such as being an inland lake heavily
dependent upon inflows from one river, and its economic and ecological importance. Up to 50,000
seasonal grazers and their livestock spend the dry season (November-June) around the lake. The lake
also supports a productive fishery, with an annual catch in excess of 3,000 tons. Lake Fitri is of
international importance as a wintering area for water birds and as a drought refuge for Afrotropical
species, and is important for elephants during the dry season. However, Lake Fitri's ecosystem is coming
under increasing pressure from the different users - pastoralists, agriculturists and fishermen who are also
conflicting over use of the lake, especially during droughts. The most significant potential threat to the
site's ecological character comes from the cumulative impact of small dykes and dams diverting seasonal
runoff and river flow into the lake. With a high potential for degradation and conflict, there is a clear
need to develop new regulation and access rules. Fortunately, Lake Fitri is within the Sultanate of Yao,
which is a strong and widely respected traditional institution.
Pilot project's primary focus. To safeguard the ecological system and mitigate the conflicts arising
from use of the lake's water resources, support is to be provided to the Government of Chad to manage
the wider biosphere reserve. A pilot project will be initiated with the following aims:
*  To obtain consensus on the future management of the Lake Fitri ecosystem, based on the interests of
local population groups and (international) conservation values;
* To identify threats to the Lake Fitri catchment and solutions to mitigate; and
* To demonstrate the "cross-pollination function" of conservation and development, in the context of a
small water body in Sahelian Chad.
It is anticipated that the experience gained from the Lake Fitri pilot project will assist in developing
comparable strategies for Lake Chad, which is larger and more complicated, and its associated water
bodies. The budget is US$450,000, with cofinancing from the Government of Chad (US$20,000) and
LCBC (US$30,000). An initial project duration of two years is proposed, with the knowledge that this
timeframe may be influenced by the rainy season. If the rains are heavy, the Lake Fitri area can get
cut-off for up to 6 months a year, which implies problematic access.
Participating institutions. The Lake Fitri pilot was initially developed by IUCN, and included in the
Lake Chad Basin Master Plan (CBLT 1992). The Dutch government had shown an interest in financing
the Lake Fitri pilot as a complement to its activities through SNV in rural development in the area.
However, due to local communal violence, the Dutch government withdrew from the area. The LCBC
will provide implementation support, with the Project Steering Committee providing budgetary oversight,
-36-



and a Memorandum of Understanding to be signed directly with UNOPS in order to make explicit its
subcontractual relationship for transfer of budget on a quarterly basis or as found to be most appropriate.
The Lake Fitri executing agency, whether NGO or private sector entity, will be selected by a competitive
bidding process.
Sub-activities. The sub-activities within Activity 5.2 are proposed to be: (i) validating the existing
management plan from 1992; (ii) reviewing existing studies; (iii) collating additional information as
necessary; (iv) implementing the agreed upon management plan; and (v) identifying and facilitating
priority actions at the community level that can be met with micro-grants or credits.
Sub-activity 1: Validating the existing management plan.
*   Procure management plan, translate into local languages, and disseminate broadly;
*   Identify the sites (location and number) that will be used to demonstrate the project together with
LCBC, IUCN, local NGOs and the Chad government;
*   Hold workshops at each site to discuss the existing management plan, incorporate the
recommendations; and
*   Determine components that can be implemented immediately.
Sub-activity 2: Reviewing existing studies
*   Compile and review existing studies;
* Consult with key institutions in the Government of Chad, NGOs, donors (bi- and multi-lateral
agencies) such as the Direction de la Faune et des Aires Protegees, Direction de Peche, Direction
des Ressources en Eau et de Meteorologie, Laboratoire de Farcha, SECADEV, DOP and SAWA;
and
*   Prepare report of results.
Sub-activity 3: Collate additional material
*   Compare the recommendations from the workshops in sub-activity 1 with the report in
sub-activity 2;
*   Prepare a program of studies if there is a need for additional studies or updating of existing
information in consultation with the LCBC; and
*   Identify staff to do the additional studies.
Sub-activitv 4: Inplement components within management plan
Sub-activity 5: Identify and facilitate priority actions at the community level
*   Additional workshops and dialogue at selected demonstration sites to identify and select priority
actions to be funded through micro grants and credits, drawing upon SECADEV's experience in
the area;
*   Establish mechanisms to disburse funds to recipients; and
*   Establish monitoring and evaluation procedures and arrangements for activities relating to
priority actions.
Activity 5.5 (a)  Outline Definition of a GEF Pilot Project on Integrated Wetlands Managed in the
Komadougou-Yobe Basin
Introduction.
- 37 -



Komadougou-Yobe basin. The Komadougou-Yobe sub-basin, in the Lake Chad Basin, covers 148,000
sq.km in Niger and Nigeria, and contains an extensive floodplain where the Hadejia and Jama'are rivers
confluence. Although referred to as the Hadejia-Nguru wetlands, after the two principal towns in the
area in northeastern Nigeria, much of the floodplain is dry for some or all of the year. The current
contribution of the Komadogou-Yobe to the northern part of Lake Chad wetlands is locally significant,
though minor in terms of the overall balance.
Dependency upon the Hadejia-Nguru wetlands. Designated a Ramsar site by Nigeria, the wetlands have
high biodiversity with an extensive variety of Sahelian and migratory species. The Hadejia-Nguru
wetlands also provide essential income and nutrition benefits for approximately two million people
through agriculture, non-timber forest products, fuelwood, fishing, dry-season grazing for semi-nomadic
pastoralists, groundwater recharge of the Chad Formation aquifer and 'insurance' resources in drought
conditions.
Pressure upon the Hadejia-Nguru wetlands. However, recently the Hadejia-Nguru wetlands have come
under increasing pressure from drought, and water resource schemes. The failure of the rains in 1992,
and a sustained drought up to 1994 was exacerbated by water diversions upstream to irrigation projects
and large dams like the Tiga and the Chalawa on the Hadejia River. In addition, increased demand for
irrigation water downstream of the wetlands may divert water past the wetlands using bypass channels.
Irrigation increased greatly during the 1980s due mainly to small petrol-powered pumps and a ban on
wheat imports in 1988. The combined effect of drought and development has impacted upon the
wetlands and a loss of plant and animal habitat resulting in certain large mammal species being
considered locally extinct, and agricultural production becoming more precarious. Conflicts are also
emerging between farmers and pastoralists as farmers move closer to the diminishing water, occupying
grazing grounds and blocking traditional herding routes; and between small and large farmers for access
to land.
Hadejia Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project. The Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project
(HNWCP) was jointly established in 1987 by the Federal Government of Nigeria, the Nigerian
Conservation Foundation, IUCN, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (a British NGO) and the
Intemational Council for Bird Preservation (now renamed Birdlife Intemational). The objectives of the
project were:
*  To explore appropriate use options for water resources for the benefit of wildlife and human
communities;
*  To monitor wildlife resources, especially migrant water birds;
* To develop conservation education and public awareness program; and
* To train the staff in the State Wildlife Departments.
Augmenting the Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project. Wise use of the Hadejia-Nguru
wetlands demands a proper understanding of environmental and socio economic changes that are
occurring and of those that may be predicted. The HNWCP focused primarily upon the environmental
management of the Hadejia-Nguru wetlands, but recognized that a basin-wide approach is needed that
includes other wetlands and water uses within the Komadougou-Yobe basin. This approach needs to take
a multisector approach and work in conjunction with other agencies in the Basin; thereby allowing for:
(i) improved coordination, integration and efficiency in water resources management in the
Komadougou-Yobe basin; (ii) biodiversity conservation and restoration of the basin's wetlands; (iii)
sustainable use and increasing productivity of the ecological resources (fisheries, forest products, grazing
lands, farming lands) of the basin's wetlands; and (iv) effective control of the desertification process. In
particular, an institution is needed that can coordinate water development activities within the
Komadougou-Yobe basin so as to avoid uni-sectoral, project-by-project development approach, and to
- 38 -



monitor, evaluate, and exchange data. It is also important to upgrade the hydrological network to
improve data collection, and refine wet season releases from the Tiga and Chalawa dams.
Komadougou-Yobe pilot project.   Based upon recommendations from the Lake Chad Basin
Commission's member countries and institutions involved, and guided by integrated ecosystems
management principles and GEF objectives, the Komadougou-Yobe pilot project aims to support the
HNWCP by promoting the sustainable management and use of the Basin's resources (water, biodiversity)
by relevant institutions and communities; and developing and implementing an effective monitoring and
evaluation system that looks at the overall ecosystem, hydrology and socio economic issues. It will
operate in Niger and Nigeria, over a period of three years. The GEF budget is US$475,000 with
co-financing from DflD (US$4,687,500), LCBC (US$30,000) and from each LCBC member country (5 x
US$20,000). Though overall executing responsibilities remain with the LCBC, its executing partner for
this pilot project will be the Hadejia Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project.
Participating institutions. The Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project has been selected as the
executing agency for this pilot project and will be working closely with its partners (the Nigerian
Conservation Foundation, IUCN, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and Birdlife
International), the governments of Niger and Nigeria, and other relevant institutions. The LCBC will
provide implementation support, with the Project Steering Committee providing budgetary oversight, and
a Memorandum of Understanding to be signed directly with UNOPS in order to make explicit its
subcontractual relationship for transfer of budget on a quarterly basis or as found to be most appropriate.
Sub-activities. The sub-activities within Activity 5.5 are proposed to be: (i) identifying and developing a
management plan; (ii) reviewing existing studies; (iii) collating additional information as necessary; (iv)
implementing components within the management plan; (v) establish monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms; (vi) identify and facilitate other priority actions at the community level; and (vii) training
and advocacy programs.
Sub-activit3 1: Identifying and developing a management plan
*   Workshop I - institutions that will be executing the pilot project to identify project site, initial
good practices relevant to the area and monitoring and evaluation criteria and responsibilities.
Identifying the need for training within the institutions. Involve governments of Niger and
Nigeria, HNWCP partners, LCBC and other relevant institutions experienced in the local
socio-economic issues;
*   Workhop 2 - bringing the institutions and identified communities together to discuss relevant
good practices, jointly develop a management plan, and identify any training or advocacy needs
within the communities; and
*   Determine which components of the management plan can be implemented immediately, and
what additional information or action is needed to implement the remaining components.
Sub-activitv 2: Reviewing existing studies
*   Compile and review existing studies;
*   Consult with key institutions in the governments of Niger and Nigeria, NGOs, donors (bi- and
multi-lateral agencies); and
*   Prepare report of results.
Sub-activity 3: Collate additional material
* Compare the recommendations from the workshops in sub-activity I with the report in
sub-activity 2;
- 39 -



*   Prepare a program of studies if there is a need for additional studies or updating of existing
information in consultation with the LCBC; and
*   Identify staff to do the additional studies.
Sub-activity 4: Implement components within management plan
Sub-activity 5: Establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms
Sub-activity 6: Identify and facilitate other priority actions at the community level
* Additional workshops and dialogue at the selected demonstration sites to identify and select
priority actions to be funded through micro grants and credits;
* Establish mechanisms to disburse funds to recipients; and
* Establish monitoring and evaluation procedures and arrangements for the activities relating to the
priority actions.
Sub-activity 7: Training and advocacy programs
* Develop training and advocacy programs for institutions involved in project execution and the
communities;
* Identify and collaborate with key trainers; and
* Hold training sessions for institutions and communities involved.
Activity 5.5 (b) Rehabilitation and Integrated Management of the Hydrological and Ecological
Resources of the Waza-Logone Floodplain
Introduction.
Chari-Lagone basin. Rising in the Central African Republic, the Chari-Logone river system contributes
approximately 95 percent of Lake Chad's inflow, as a result the ecological integrity of Lake Chad
depends heavily upon the integrity of the Chari-Logone system. Lake Chad's inflows have decreased
from a peak of 54 cubic km per year in 1955-56, to 7 cubic km per year in 1984-85. The Logone river
forms the border between Cameroon and Chad until N'Djamena where it flows together with the Chari
river northwards to the lake. These rivers have a tropical regime with a single flood occurring at the end
of the rainy season (August to November). The Waza-Logone floodplains cover approximately 8,000
sq.km in northern Cameroon. The plain starts to flood during the rainy season and is augmented by the
Logone river's flooding until December. The floodplain contains the Waza National Park (1,700 sq.km)
which is a biosphere reserve and the Kalamaloue National Park (45 sq.ktn), which holds significant
biodiversity.
Dependency upon the Waza-Logone floodplains. The Waza-Logone floodplains are very important
ecologically due to its high biodiversity, and economically as it supports more than 100,000 people with
its resources. The inundated plains are highly productive, providing breeding grounds for fish, dry
season pastures that support cattle, and fertile land for growing rice and forestry products. Fish, which
constitute the backbone of the regional economy are harvested intensively by the sedentary population
and fisherfolk. Nomadic and transhuman herders, whose cattle constitute a critical component of the
economy of the sub region, benefit from the grazing.
Pressure upon the Waza-Logonefloodplains. The annual flooding of the floodplains is critical for their
ecological and economic integrity. Coupled with the effects of poor rainfalls and the over-harvesting of
-40 -



natural resources through the construction of dams (Lake Maga in Cameroon) and irrigation
infrastructure there has been a marked reduction in the flooding, of approximately 2,000 sq.km, resulting
in declining wildlife and biodiversity, collapse of the fishing industry, reduced grazing capacity and a
shortage of surface water in the dry season.
IUCN Waza-Logone or CACID Project. The IUCN Waza-Logone Project (WLP), which is also known
as the Cellule D'Appui a la Conservation et aux Initiatives de Developpement Durable (CACID), was
started in 1987 with the support of the Government of the Netherlands. Over three phases, CACID did
the following: (i) gathered data and conducted studies in socio-economic, ecological and hydrological
issues; (ii) provided training for villages, and study tours and seminars for project and government staff;
(iii) undertook ecomanagement activities regarding resource management for livestock, sustainable forest
use, formed apiculture groups, ecotourism and water and sanitation; (iv) actively encouraged community
participation and awareness through a communication program; (v) catalyzed pilot releases for floodplain
rehabilitation through a large-scale reinundation program; (vi) audited releases made in 1994 and 1997;
(vii) jointly with the communities drafted proposals for the sustainable use of the floodplains' natural
resources; and (viii) assisted in developing management plans for the Waza and Kalamaloue National
Parks.
Augmenting the CACID project. In spite of the Waza-Logone floodplains' strategic importance for the
economy and stability of Cameroon, Chad and Nigeria, there is little intervention to safeguard it other
than the CACID project. This in comparison to the Komadougou-Yobe basin across the border in
Nigeria. There are national initiatives that focus on particular sectors such as fisheries, livestock,
agriculture or forestry, but they are neither integrated nor do they have a common focus. Therefore, there
is a need to consolidate the progress made thus far by the CACID project, to maxirnise efforts towards
reversing ongoing land and water resources degradation in the Lake Chad Basin, and to establish
methodologies for the conservation and good use of transboundary ecosystems. To this end, three NGOs
were established by CACID: (i) CFAID - a support unit for training in development initiatives that works
with farmers to secure and improve agricultural production together with FAO; (ii) AIDR - supports
rural development initiatives, including credit schemes, working with fishing groups and women
organizations with support from DEDC (a German organization); and (iii) ACEEN - support
environmental education initiatives, that is working with WWF.
Waza-Logone pilot project. Based upon recommendations from the Lake Chad Basin Commission's
member countries and institutions involved, and guided by integrated ecosystems management principles
and GEF objectives, the Waza-Logone pilot project aims to support the CACID project and its parners by
promoting the sustainable management and use of the basin's resources (water and biodiversity) by the
relevant institutions and communities; and developing and implementing an effective monitoring and
evaluation system that looks at the overall ecosystem, hydrology and socio economic issues. It will
operate in Cameroon, over a period of three years, at three geographical scales: (i) water management
issues will be addressed at the Chari-Logone Basin level; (ii) natural resources use will be addressed at
the Waza-Logone floodplain level; and (iii) biodiversity conservation will concentrate in Waza and
Kalamolue National Parks. The GEF budget is US$475,000 with co-fmancing from the Dutch
Directorate-General for International Cooperation (DGIS) (US$1.97 million), LCBC (US$30,000) and
from each LCBC member country (5 x US$20,000). Though overall executing responsibilities remain
with the LCBC, its executing partner for this pilot project will be the CACID project.
Participating institutions. CACID is the executing agency for this pilot project and will be working
closely with its partners (IUCN, WWF, AIDR, CFAID, ACEEN), the governments of Cameroon and
Nigeria, and other relevant institutions. The LCBC will provide implementation support, with the
- 41 -



Project Steering Committee providing budgetary oversight, and a Memorandum of Understanding to be
signed directly with UNOPS in order to make explicit its subcontractual relationship for transfer of
budget on a quarterly basis or as found to be most appropriate.
Sub-activities. The sub-activities within Activity 5.6 are proposed to be: (i) identifying and developing a
management plan; (ii) reviewing existing studies; (iii) collating additional information as necessary; (iv)
implementing components within the management plan; (v) establish monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms; (vi) identify and facilitate other priority actions at the community level; and (vii) training
and advocacy programs.
Sub-activity 1: Identifying and developing a management plan
* Workshop I - bringing together the institutions that will be executing the pilot project to forge
partnerships, and identify project site, initial good practices relevant to the area and monitoring
and evaluation criteria and responsibilities.  Identifying the need for training within the
institutions;
* Involve the governments of Cameroon and Nigeria, LCBC and other relevant institutions
experienced in the local socio-economic issues;
* Workhop 2 - bringing institutions and identified communities together to discuss relevant good
practices, jointly develop a management plan, and identify any training or advocacy needs within
the communities; and
*   Deternine which components of the management plan can be implemented immediately, and
what additional information or action is needed to implement the remaining components.
Sub-activitv 2: Reviewing existing studies
* Compile and review existing studies;
*   Consult with key institutions in the governments of Cameroon and Nigeria, NGOs, donors (bi-
and multi-lateral agencies);
* Development or upgrading of models, especially the LCBC Hydrodynamic model; and
* Prepare report of results.
Sub-activitv 3: Collate additional material
*   Compare the recommendations from the workshops in sub-activity 1 with the report in
sub-activity 2;
* Prepare a program of studies if there is a need for additional studies or updating of existing
information in consultation with the LCBC; and
* Identify staff to do the additional studies.
Sub-activity 4: Implement components within management plan
Sub-activitv 5: Establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms
* Formulate the baseline surveys and indicators for monitoring; and
* Appraise the project's activities.
Sub-activity 6: Identify and facilitate other priority actions at the community level
* Additional workshops and dialogue at the selected demonstration sites to identify and select
priority actions to be funded through micro grants and credits;
* Establish mechanisms to disburse funds to recipients; and
* Establish monitoring and evaluation procedures and arrangements for activities relating to
priority actions.
-42 -



Sub-activity 7: Awareness, training and advocacy programs
*   Develop awareness, training and advocacy programs for institutions involved in project
execution and communities, such as capacity building for participation in decision-making and
implementation;
*   Identify and collaborate with key trainers;
*   Hold training sessions for institutions and communities involved; and
*   Implement integrated management awareness programs.
Activity 5.6  Lessons learned from pilots proiects as input into the SAP process.
Introduction. Not only is it a pre-condition to SAP implemention, but clearly regional initiatives and
mechanisms will need to be implemented through national, regional and local level mechanisms.
Notwithstanding the member countries' high-level agreement on priority actions that need to be urgently
addressed, and the commitment made during the GEF PDF-B phase, the precise mode of involvement in
each sub-basin needs to be determined and tested with local and national actors and-explicitly linked to
regional initiatives. Therefore, pilot projects were chosen during the GEF PDF-C phase based upon
recommendations by the LCBC's technical committees and consultants. These pilot projects will
demonstrate methodologies that can be applied in developing a strategic action program for the whole
Lake Chad Basin. These projects will now build on existing development and environment initiatives
and will be designed to add global value to these interventions by addressing transboundary priorities.
Upscaling the lessons learned through the pilot projects and including them in the SAP design process,
will allow for more efficient and effective implemention of the SAP.
Participating institutions. The LCBC is the overall executing agency, and will be working closely with
the govemments of Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria, SECADEV, the Hadejia-Nguru Wetland
Conservation Project management unit, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, IUCN, the Royal Society
for the Protection of Birds, Birdlife International, CACID, WWF, AICR, CFAID, ACEEN and other
relevant institutions.
Sub-activities. The sub-activities within Activity 5.6 are proposed to be: (i) identifying lessons learned
from each pilot project; and (ii) incorporating the lessons into the SAP proposal.
Sub-activity 1: Identifying lessons learned
*   Facilitated Workshops held at each pilot site to identify the lessons learned, and those that have
regional implications; and
*   Reports from all three workshops are consolidated into one report with recommendations for the
SAP process.
Sub-activity 2: Incorporating the lessons into the SAP proposal
*   Lessons learned presented at SAP planning workshops; and
*   SAP consultants visit the pilot sites to augment these lessons.
Project Component 6 - US$0.36 million
-43 -



E.    Project Component 6: Strategic Action Plan designed and endorsed
Introduction. The riparian countries of the Lake Chad Basin have recognized that uncoordinated
national development is unsustainable. However, with the pressure to develop the Basin's resources
growing, avenues have to be found that tap the development potential within the Basin. In this light, the
design of a strategic action program that looks to regional mechanisms and initiatives (and has the full
backing of the riparian countries) is a critical step towards realizing the development potential within the
Lake Chad basin. Drawing upon its experience in the region and its comparative advantage, the World
Bank will play a lead role in coordinating and organizing donor support for the SAP. Donor
consultation, both informally and through a formal donor conference, will occur soon after the project is
approved so that donors are brought onboard early-on in this project (Provision has been made for an
additional donor conference, during the third year of the project, which will assist in securing broad
donor support for SAP implementation.)
Activities. The activities within Component 6 are: (i) developing and implementing a plan for
continuing donor contact; (ii) planning and implementing two donor conferences, one shortly after GEF
project approval and one immediately prior to SAP implementation; (iii) present the TDA and the SAP to
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committees and the LCBC, and formalize a regional agreement on the
SAP; and (iv) develop donor conference reports and prepare a strategy for ongoing project funds.
Activity 6.1: Develop and implement a plan for continuing donor contact
*   Together with the LCBC design and implement a program for donor contact
Activity 6.2: Plan and implement donor conferences
* Hold a donor conference soon after project approval; and
* Hold a second donor conference prior to SAP implementation
Activity 6.3: Present the TDA and the SAP to Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committees and the LCBC;
and formalize a regional agreement on the SAP
* Regional workshop 1 - to present the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and SAP to the
IMCC and LCBC; and
* Regional workshop 2 - to formalize a regional agreement on the SAP.
Activity 6.4: Develop of donor conference reports and prepare a strategy for ongoing project funds
* Report on the donor conferences; and
* Prepare a strategy for ongoing donor support to the SAP.
-44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
iLocal       Foreign        Total
Project Cost ByjCornponent_               USI $mniion, - US million  US $million.
Enhanced regional policy and institutional mechanisms       0.20          0.72         0.92
Demonstration projects to test methodologies, stakeholder   0.27          1.01          1.28
involvement and implementation modalities
Donor support mobilized for GEF SAP and LCBC Plan           0.04          0.16         0.20
implementation
0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                         0.51          1.89          2.40
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.10          0.40         0.50
Total Project Costs1               0.61         2.29          2.90
Total Financing Required               0.61          2.29          2.90
Detailed Costs
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$rn) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 18.93 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 15.32%
of total project cost net of taxes.
-45 -



Annex 4
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Incremental Cost Annex
A.     Regional Context and Broad Development Goals
General poverty characterizes the development situation in the Basin. Poverty is also a key factor for all
environmental threats. The five countries are among the last forty countries in the Human Development
Index (HDI) ranking. Two countries are among the last ten, and one country is in fact just before the last
one in the world. The mean real GDP per capita for those countries is decreasing (in 1987 equivalent
US$) from 1980 (US$463) to 1990 (US$425) and 1995 (US$378) (UNDP Human Development Report
1998, p.142). At the same time, the mean figures for the same indicator are increasing for developing
countries (taken as a whole). The same observation can be made for this specific region for two other
indicators: food production per capita and daily per capita supply of calories. They are also decreasing,
whereas the opposite trend can be observed, on average, for developing countries.
Socio-economic pressures on the region's limited water resource base have driven significant levels of
investment in water infrastructure, particularly in Nigeria. In Chad, new irrigation projects are planned.
In both countries, questions rernain concerning financial constraints, food security, sustainability and
efficiency of those investments, particularly in terms of water management. The development baseline
appears to be insufficient in this region to overcome current trends, despite some positive signs for West
Africa, concerning a new dynamism in economic growth, in conflict resolution, and in civil society
participation. UNDP and the World Bank are already funding water resource management programs in
Chad, Niger and Nigeria. The governments of the five countries have provided funds to LCBC (since
1964, and 1994) and have committed funds to environmental assessments of their part of basin.
B.     Global Environmental Objective and Incremental Cost Analysis
The significance of the Basin has been highlighted by the international interest in the hydro-ecological
state of the Basin flood plains and biodiversity they support. The incipient degradation under the
baseline conditions will threaten aquatic flora and their associated fauna, both in the Lake Chad area and
in the source sub-basins. If transboundary issues are not addressed, direct and indirect threats to this
international water body will result in the progressive breakdown of the hydrological and ecological
integrity of the Lake Chad Basin (LCB) system. This will cause the global community to forfeit sizable
conservation benefits (including direct and indirect use values, and existence and option values).
C.     Baseline
The scope of the baseline is spatially set by the natural limits of the LCB and the locus of external
demands upon the Basin's resources; thematically, by project objectives (concerted management, water
resource analysis and planning/programming), and temporally, by project life (4 years). Basin sectoral
activities that involve direct water abstraction and disposal from and to LCB watercourses are
distinguished from activities that relate to mechanisms for concerted management, water resource
analysis for the LCB, and programming and planning of water related investments in the LCB. A
proportion of these non-operational activities carried out by each country will be diverted into the
alternative.
-46 -



The GEF project completed an inventory of the existing, or signed, water and environment programs
funded by donors in each riparian country. This specific inventory is limited to the new conventional
Lake Chad Basin and for the duration of the proposed program. Detailed tables of this baseline (split
into structural and non-structural investments related t6 the GEF proposed activities) are given in Annex
1 of the agreed Lake Chad Strategic Action Plan. The detailed incremental cost matrix is provided as
Annex I and compares, in tenrs of outputs and costs, the baseline with the proposed activities.
D.     The GEF Alternative
An alternative regional program will generate benefits for the overall environment, while striving to
promote actions that are compatible with the economic and social interests of each country. It would
create new opportunities for regional development by harmonizing policies and enabling the
requirements of all players within the basin to be taken into account. In a basin as complex and sensitive
as that of Lake Chad, it is vital to integrate development and environmental policies, which are closely
interdependent, right from the outset. The agreed "Lake Chad Strategic Action Plan", (and in particular
the way in which the Program of Action is implemented with GEF support, and the progressive support
of major donors), should aim at ensuring a flexible process whereby this integration of policies can take
place. A GEF project for protecting the overall environment will be a vital means of mobilizing,
catalyzing and generating national development projects, making the environment an essential
component.  Reciprocally, these national development programs concemed with water and the
environment, coordinated within a comprehensive strategic approach basin-wide (the SAP) will be
decisive in upgrading the capabilities that need to be mobilized throughout the region to save the Lake
Chad Basin ecosystem. In conclusion, it may be predicted that without a regional back-up program, sized
to handle the scope of the work that has to be organized and carried out, there will be no other initiatives
in the short or medium terms to provide the region's countries with complete assistance to deal with the
environmental problems linked with the international waters of Lake Chad.
To avoid the environmental risks identified above, with the support in kind of governments. Existing
basic framework within the Basin (regular operations of the LCBC) is covered by the member state.
Certain other priority regional programs would benefit from being cofinanced with other donors in order
to generate more wide-ranging action, and thus have a more rapid impact on the human and physical
environments. These programs will be formulated during Phase 1 (2003-2006) and discussed with
interested and concerned partners. At the national level, the components financed by the GEF could help
to support existing or future programs, integrated into national sustainable developrnent programs and
into the Strategic Action Plan for the entire Basin.
E. Scope of Analysis
The functional system boundary for water, land, forest and wildlife comprise much smaller sub-sets of
the basin's geographic limit. This is because the hydrologically active area of the Basin is much smaller
(966,955 km2) and involves five riparian states. The topographic limits of the Basin (2,381,635 km2)
which cover large parts of desert areas in Niger and Chad are effectively de-coupled hydrologically and
hydrogeologically from Lake Chad. In 1964, four countries created the Lake Chad Basin Commission, to
handle the problems of development centered on Lake Chad in an area formally referred to as "the
conventional basin". This convention did not include the Central African Republic and excluded the
large desert expanses of Algeria, northern Niger and Sudan and, in particular, excluded the upstream part
of the active basins of the Chari-Logone and Komadugu-Yobe. This "old conventional basin" covered
- 47 -



about 427 300 km2. Since 1994, the Central African Republic has been a member of the LCBC and "the
new conventional basin" has been enlarged to include the upper basins of the Logone-Chari and
Komadugu-Yobe systems. It may now be considered that LCBC's mandate covers the entire active Basin
(also referred to as the new conventional basin), which now covers 966,955 km2, divided as follows
between the 5 countries:
Country        New area of    Population in 1991 (in  Density in 1991
conventional basin   tiousands)         (inhlan2)
(kxn2)
Cameroon                 56,800              2,100                37
CAR                     197,800               700                 3.5
Niger                   162,375               240                 1.5
Nigeria                 188,000             13,856                74
Chad                    361,980              5,048                14
Total                   966 955             21 944               22.7
According to LCBC (areas) and Harrison and Kolawole (population: PDF-B)
This new definition of the active Lake Chad Basin thus takes into account almost all the water resources
that supplies the lake, the Yaeres and the aquifers in the lake area. It is now possible, in each sub-basin,
and for the whole Basin, to envisage a concerted water resources management.
The thematic limits for this analysis are set by the project objectives to prepare for the implementation of
a program of concerted management through strengthened institutional mechanisms, transboundary
analysis and program design. Requisite institutional strengthening across related sectors is of essence.
The design of the proposed project has taken into full consideration its complementarity with other
existing projects in the region, particularly World Bank and UNDP funded water reviews in Nigeria.
Temporal boundaries for this analysis are set by the anticipated period of preparation for implementation
and program formulation, a four-year period. Project benefits will clearly continue to accrue beyond this
time boundary of both the first stage defined by the project and the second stage of program
implementation. Baseline expenditures have been estimated across a time horizon (from 1995 to 2005)
to capture relevant development and project budgets.
Sunk costs, incurred prior to 1998, have been omitted from the analysis. The baseline captures
investments within the LCBC and specific elements associated with extra-basin demands for water. The
alternative captures additional actions required to secure project objectives within the system boundary.
There will be substantial leveraging of domestic baseline costs that address concerted management and
basin analysis towards the globally preferred alternative.
F.     Project Financing
-48 -



Total baseline expenditures amount to US$23.66 million and reflects investments associated with water
policy initiatives, including management and environmental protection, at national (and to a lesser
extent) at regional levels, over the period 1995 to 2005. The GEF would provide US$9.6 million in
incremental cost financing for the alternative, which represents 40 percent of the total baseline amount.
This funding is targeted specifically at overcoming barriers by defraying transaction costs associated with
sustainable management of transboundary waters, and associated resources and ecosystems.
Co-financing figures are indicative of the anticipated participation of on-going projects to related
activities of the GEF project. As an example, UNDP is funding (in Chad) US$2.6 million in water and
land resources project. It has been estimated that 10 percent of this amount will be valuable used in
concerted operations. LCBC has an annual mean budget, funded by the member states, of US$1.18
million. It has been agreed by LCBC that it will make available US$411,800 over the lifetime of the
project. The contribution in-kind accepted by the five governments through their on-going projects
represents a total of US$1.75 million. The total co-financing is US$9.3 million.
In the longer term, the removal of barriers to sustainable use will widen the menu of development options
available at the local level. But in the short term, the generation of the program to address transboundary
issues will result in mainly non-pecuniary benefits. For riparian countries, tangible costs exceed tangible
benefits in the intermediate term, providing little incentive to undertake this initiative without external
assistance.
-49 -



PROJECT INCREMENTAL COST MATRIX
.ong-term objective: "To achieve regional and global benefits tbrough, broad, basln wide partlilpatlon in the
levelopment and Implementation of measures that esumre that Lake Cbad is sustainably protected by concerted,
ntegrated management of the basin's resoures"__
Cost/Beneflts             BASELINE (B) 2            ALTERNATIVE (A)           INCREMENT (A-B)
2003-2006
Domestic Benefits          I. Countries unwilling to take  1. Harmonization of policies  I. Countries able to strengthen
unilateral action to strengthen  and standards for water and  water and environmental
The baseline comprises only  water and environmental  environmental management  management without losing
the directly relevant activities  management, and bilateral,  according to a common  development funds for other
dealing with water policy and  assistance unwilling to fund  strategy (SAP) at basin level,  critical short term priorities and
management. It does not   water projects without any  with information and support  without losing competitive
include associated        clear knowledge, or agreement, of donors.           position.
infrastructure investments  on sustainability of water uses,
which are estimated to amount upstream and downstream.  2. Coordination of     2. Interventions more
to approximately US$557                             management efforts between  effectively targeted at
million.                  2. Environmental management riparian countries through  removing the root causes of
policies, strategies and  intemational cooperation.  threats, thus improving the
programs within countries are Institutional and human  efficacy and cost-effectiveness
uncoordinated; by themselves, capacity building in the arena  of national management
national efforts are insufficient of integrated land and water  endeavors. National capacities
to mitigate threats to river  management and basin space  to implement a holistic
systems. National capacities to planning.           Tesources management method
effect integrated land and water                    at all levels are strengthened.
body management are limited. 3. Targeted education and
awareness efforts for     3. Civil society more
3. National local players poorly sustainable development in the responsive to environmental
sensitized to environmental  Lake Chad basin.       protection measures.
concems.
4. Efforts targeted at removing 4. The ecological sustainability
4. Countries face growing  the root causes of water  of development activities in the
environmental, social and  resources and environmental  Lake Chad basin will be better
economic costs and a decrease degradation, both current and  assured, for each country.
in available natural resources, future.
from degradation of the Lake
IChad Basin system.       II
-50-



Global/Regional Benefits   1. The policy framework for  I . Strengthening of policy and 1. Policy and incentive
coordinating river management incentives for regional  framework for effective
of the Lake Chad Basin is  cooperation, involving all main regional cooperation for
inadequate; regional      players, in order to remove  addressing cross-border
cooperation is mainly limited  institutional barriers and make problems are politically
to central and political levels. intemational waters a catalyst supported through a regional
Donors, like others, are not  for regional cooperation,  and basic agreements on
informed and involved.    instead of a source of potential policy/institutional/legal and
conflicts.                financial adjustments at
2. Lack of regional,                                 national and sub-national
sub-regional, national and  2. Create institutional  levels.
local institutions able to  mechanisms to guide and
coordinate strategy and action coordinate national plans and  2. Establishment of
to plan and manage finite and  actions within a common  institutional framework across
vulnerable intemational water regional vision and framework. sectors, and across countries
resources in a sustainable                          for addressing cross-border
manner.                   3. Develop mechanisms for  impacts and regional capacities
engendering public        are enhanced.
3. Limited avenues for public  participation in sound
involvement in overall    development planning and   3. Public participation in
environmental management of management at            management increases the
the Lake Chad system.     basin-ecosystem level.     sense of ownership of civil
society over management
4. Lack of a common        . Building of an enabling  efforts and in turn enhances
instrument able to simulate  environment leading to a  prospects for sustainable basin
long-term impacts of current  dynamic regional instrnment  development.
decisions on regional stability able to aid regional decisions
and food security.        for maximization of economic 4. A common long-term vision
and social impacts, for all  for cooperative basin-wide
5. Lack of common         countries and communities, and water allocation, protection and
cross-borders activities for  minimization of environmental planning.
measuring water resources, for impacts.
exchanging information, for                          5. An applied strategy towards
analyzing costs-benefits of  5. A set of horizontal activities integrated and sustainable
altematives, for protecting  are launched across sectors and management of the
wetlands and flood plains and borders in order to stimulate  intemational waters of the Lake
for averting possible pollution cooperation and capacity  Chad basin, is launched.
I threats.                 building.
- 51 -



Output 1: Ani established Project Mwnageoteut Unit (PMU) and a Lead Agency io each of we paririatlng countries to  I
iuture tlar-sectoral cootdbn ion for duration of the project.__._._..
Cost/Benefit             BASELINE (B)           ALTERNATIVE (A)           INCREMENT (A-B)
(US$ 1000)                2003-2006                 (US$ 1000)
(USS 1000)
Activity 1. 1
Recruit the Project Manager,  No regional executing agent is Recruitinent of highly qualified Appropriate human capacities
public participation and  active in multi-level and  consultants and experts to  developed to promote and
communication expertise, and multi-disciplinary coordination support the full program  support participatory practices,
requisite technical,      of IWRM activities in     implementation during 4 years. at all levels, and to insure a
administrative and secretariat connection with existing                       permanent evaluation and
support.                  projects.                                           follow-up of transboundary
activities.
Total: 945
Total : Zero baseline                               Cost to GEF: 945
Activity 1.2
Create and organize the Project No operational and technical  Creation of a PMU  An appropriate regional unit is
Manager Unit (PMU) to     support available for a full                        equipped and organized in
facilitate and coordinate the  regional project                               order to efficiently deliver
work program of the project.                                                  project outputs, give technical
assistance and manage program
Total: 415                activities.
Total: Zero baseline
Cost to GEF: 415
Activity 1.3
Create and make provision for                       Regular meetings between  Co-ordination of GEF actions
the conduct of meetings of the                      extemal donors and UN and  with UN and/or other donors.
Project Steering Committee                          GEF technical agencies
(PSC).                    Total : Zero baseline                                CosttoGEF: 115
Total:  115
Activity 1.4
In cooperation with the   No inter-ministerial body at  Support for the creation, in  National coordination
participating countnes and  country level for IWRM of  each country, of an    reconciling, at sub-national
through the LCBC, create  Lake Chad national sub-basin. Inter-Ministerial Coordinating basin level, regional
country specific                                    Committee (IMCC) for Lake  development, land uses, food
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating                      Chad Basin.                security, ecosystem health, and
Committees to assist in the                                                   finite, vulnerable natural
work specified in Activity 2.3  Total: Zero baseline                           resources.
and output 3
Total: 438                Cost to GEF: 438
Activity 1.5
Support a Lead Agency for  No operational lead agency  Five national (small)
each participating country and in each country      secretariats in order to manage
a senior official to assume                         national components of the full
leadership of project activities                    program, directed by a senior
and represent the participating                     lead official, to ensure country
country in meetings of the                          program coordination with the
Project Steering Committee  Total: Zero baseline    project.                   Cost to GEF: 420
(PSC).
Total: 420                 _
TOTAL OUTPUT I                                     C X _                  2,338                     2,338
- 52-



Du*t 2: enhanced rqtuual policy lnithitives and lstituUAonal memhabibms to esddress trausboundwy issues beyoud,tbe
projec we_                                                  _        _
INCREMENT (A-B)              BASELINE (B)           ALTERNATIVE (A)        INCREMENT (A-B)
(US$ 1000)                (US$ 1000)                 2003-2006         (US$ 1000)
(US$ 1000)
Activity 2.1
Review current functions and  LCBC staff salaries funded  Evaluation of LCBC functions, Strengthening the role of the
responsibilities of the LCBC  with limited operational  capacities and financial means LCBC is crucial to obviate the
with a view to strengthening  budget. Weak operational  and proposals in order to  risk that individual countries
and improving its functional  capacity for Integrated  strengthen this regional  will give priority to greatest
capabilities and ensuring a  Resources and Environment  organization.          domestic benefits without
sufficient level of finance for  Management (I.R.E.M.)  Identification of needs and  taking into account
its operations.           through cooperation between  discussions to design terms of downstream Interests
stakeholders at all levels.  reference.
LCBC's role is mainly at                            Type: Complementary (not a
political level, and LCBC                           national priority, necessary for
operational activities are of                       overall benefits)
limited effectiveness. No
evaluation of LCBC functions.
Operational budget of LCBC
during 3.5 years.         Total: 2,438              Cost to GEF: 86
Total: 2,352
Activity 2.2
Identify stakeholders in water Limited operational support  Updated national water  National water policies take
resource and related land and  geared toward changes in  policies             into account transboundary
environmental policy      national/sub-basin water                             water issues and encourage
implementation in each    management, in relation with                         environmental protection
country.                  environmental protection and
transboundary water issues.                         Type: Complementary
FAO and UNDP/DESA                                   (domestic benefits but not a
supports work in Chad. UNDP                         national priority)
in Niger. KFW in CAR. WB in
Nigeria.                  Total: 526
Cost to GEF: 226
Total: 300
Activity 2.3              During the PDF-B process,  Follow-up and coordination  In support to the Convention
Through the PMU and the   additional UNDP resources  between three regional river  against Desertification,
LCBC coordinate activities  funded DESA technical   basin programs (and possibly  harmonization and
with other related GEF projects missions and harmonized  others in future) covering  optimization of environmental
in the Niger and Senegal River national consultations inside  almost all the Sahel region.  assessment (EA) approaches as
Basins including technical  10 countries of Lake Chad,                         a contribution to a regional
exchanges and field visits as  Niger and Senegal basins. This                  policy - at local, national and
necessary.                led to UNDP-GEF preparatory                          basin levels - for an integrated,
assistance (Lake Chad and                           concerted and sustainable
Niger Basins).                                      management of water, land and
Total: 170                other resources in the Sahel
region.
Total: 50                                            Cost to GEF : 226
Activity 2.4
Define and promote the    National development plans  Promotion of             Changes are promoted for
integration of transboundary  and projects are uncoordinated Policy/institutionalAegalUfinanc National plans and projects
water and environmental   in relation with the      ial adjustments at national and design in order to take into
policies into the National  management of water, and  sub-national levels by legal  account up-dated national
Action Plans.             other basin common resources, decrees                water policies
and with the broad protection  Study of consequences of each
of those resources.       updated national water policy  Type: Complementary
-53-



GEF-PDF-Project          on national development plans (domestic benefits but not a
and on major programs or  national priority)
projects.
Total: 50                 Total: 722
Cost to GEF: 272
Activity 2.5
Undertake an assessment of  National legal frameworks  Facilitation of a harmonized  Enhanced cooperation
current, relevant agreements,  generally do not take into  legal framework for Integrated facilitated by harmonized legal
protocols, conventions statutes consideration specific  Resources and Environment  national frameworks
and other relevant legal  regulations for integrated water Management (IREM) across  conceming water.
frameworks in each country,  management at basin level,  sectors and countries, leading
including recommendations for including transboundary water to enhanced cooperation.  Type: Complementary
incentives and harmonized  issues and environmental                           (domestic benefits for local
legal frameworks to enable an protection. LCBC meetings                       sustainable development,
integrated regional approach  and contribution to the                         necessary fbr overall benefits)
toward long-term management bi-lateral Niger-Nigeria  Total : 692
of the Basin's resources.  commission.                                        Cost to GEF: 175
Total: 517
Activity 2.6
Establish the necessary   Local existing development  Immediate implementation of Written, country-endorsed
structural arrangements for  projects -see SAP - funded by: an Interim Basin Committee  agreement with specific
participating countries to  World Bank, FED, BAD,   for Strategic Planning.   mechanisms to improve the
review, harmonize and     FIDA, CFD/FAC, KFW,       International agreement on  integration of water uses
coordinate frameworks,    DANIDA, Netherlands,       rinciples of cooperation  management, and the
regulations and approaches for UNDP, UNICEF, WWF,   for sustainable and integrated  coordination of project
the improved transboundary  without links at the level of  water management for  supports, at sub-basin and
management of such issues as resources management: the  reconciling, at basin level,  basin levels basin.
power generation, irrigation,  sub-basin.           regional development, land
downstream riparian                                 uses, food security, ecosystem  Type: Complementary (not a
considerations, fisheries, water                    health, (and other water uses), national priority, necessary for
quality and effluent standards,                     and finite, vulnerable water  overall benefits)
diversions and consumptive                          resources.
uses, and the creation and use
of economic instruments.  Total: 2
_Total: 2                 Cost to GEF: 202
TOTAL OUTPUT 2                                  3,66M                     4,75                      1,081
-54-



Output 3: Streingthened commnunity level prtnlnpatlon and education, Involve stakebolders through developmelnt of local
plaaning initiatives (mini-Age nd 21'.)
CostlBenefit             BASELINE (B)           ALTERNATIVE (A)           INCREMENT (A-B)
(US$ 1000)                2003-2006                 (US$ 1000)
(US$ 1000)
Activity 3.1
Create and provide resources
for a Steering Committee for
the creation local development
initiatives                Total Zero baseline      Total: 90                 Cost to GEF: 90
Activity 3.2
Formulate and execute 15                            Support 15 local planning
consultations (3 in each                            initiatives for community level
participating country)                              stakeholders to establish their
sustainable development plans
in line with sub-basin planning
Total: 1,292              frameworks                Cost to GEF: 716
Total: 2,008
Activity 3.3
Support for 15 final workshop                       Lessons leaned from local
reports, including                                  consultations
recommendations for pilot
projects in the SAP
implementation phase of the
GEF project               Total: Zero baseline                                Cost to GEF: 75
Total: 75
Activity 3.4
Support for preparation of a                        Lessons learned from
final report, including                             coordination between local,
recommendations, to assist                          national and regional
governments and the LCBC to                         initiatives
begin implementation of key
results from the mini-Agenda
21 exercises               Total: Zero baseline                                Cost to GEF: 15
Total: 15
Activity 3.5
Develop a regionally based  No basin-based methodology, A designed basin methodology A country-agreed methodology
methodology for the conduct o despite national projects with                  for the conduct of
environmental impact studies, environmental components                         environmental impact studies
ensuring provision of     involving local stakeholders.                       (EIS), with information and
stakeholder participation and  Waza-Logone project and                         involvement of stakeholders.
the communication of results to specific studies on the
stakeholder groups.       Hadejia-Nguru wetlands.   Total:  5,131
_otal: 4,800              1                 _        Cost to GEF: 331
TOTAL OUTPUT 3                                  6,0921                    7,315                     1,227
- 55-



Output 4: A completed rDA and a modelling framework for concerted manaoment of the basin
CosttBenefit              BASELINE (B)              ALTERNATIVE            (A) INCREMENT (A-B)
(US$ 1000)                2003-2006                 (US$ 1000)
(US$ 1000)
Activity 4.1
Compile existing scientific,  Piecemeal data collection in  With the support of each  Updated knowledge of the
hydro-environmental and   the framework of current local national IMCC. (created with  current status, location and
socio-economic data and   development projects. No  activity 1.4), country reports on reliability, of existing data,
information (including    spatial data on existing  a detailed inventory of existing databases and GIS, in each
groundwater, aquatic      situation, nor extensive and  relevant data and projects, with country. Existing data,
ecosystems and water      reliable data conceming water an evaluation of the quality of infbrmation, and information
consumption). Prepare a   resources, nor data concemmg basic data, and of existing data systems conceming Lake Chad
descriptive basin framework  socio-economic and     bases and GIS. Collection of Basin are synthesized in a
and establish key processes and environmental impacts of basin data bases on water resources  report for broad distribution
hot-spots. Data and descriptive resources uses. Loss of data  in an agreed sub-basin and  through LCBC.
models to be hosted by the  collected in the field by past  basin framework.
LCBC.                     and on-going projects and
duplication of effort. No
regional synthesis of available
data and infornation existing
in each country.          Total:      2,632         Cost to GEF: 235
Total: 2,397
Activity 4.2
Undertake a gap analysis of  A data-gap analysis and a  Gap analysis of existing data  Recommendations and
existing data to define further basin-wide approach of  (physical and socio-economic  program of action to meet
needs to the establishment of a monitoring are missing.  information), hydraulic  further needs for the
basin-wide monitoring network                       models, hydrological and  establishment of a basin-wide
groundwater models. Analysis monitoring network.
of new projects or recent
studies concerning: rainfall
pattem, climatic modifications,
surface water and groundwater
resources, regional impacts of
climate variability on
Total: zero baseline      desertification and biodiversity.
Identification of needs.  Cost to GEF: 100
Total:       100
Activity 4.3
Support for the development of Hydrological measurement  National and regional  A finalized TDA.
key measures (e.g. updating of stations are generally  specialists and authorities
rating curves of existing  abandoned or poorly reliable. finalize the TDA.
hydrological stations to  Only one national project for
determine low flow and flood  water resources monitoring in a Key measurements of:  A reliable scientific data base
conditions, specific water  part of Nigeria.        low-flows and flood       to be built at regional level
quality measurements,                               discharges, topography and  during three years and lessons
peizometry, pumping tests and                       salinity of the Lake, water  are leamed of the actual
topographic surveys) and the                        quality of rivers, aquifer levels, situation in order to guide
establishment of the                                and survey of flooding     TDA, future SAP
hydrostratigraphy in Chad                           dynamics and recharges.   implementation , priorities and
Formation in order to refine                        Commission specific        methodologies of future
and complete the TDA                                hydrological studies on the two sub-programs.
Total: 1,480              main rivers and on the Lake
water-balance.            Cost to GEF: 50
Total:   50
Activity 4.4
Establish key environmental  A "Diagnostic Study of  First definition and agreement First step of achieving basin
-56 -



indicators in the Lake Chad  Environmental Degradation" of on key environmental  monitoring capability,
Basin to verify compliance  the old "conventional" basin  indicators and key physical  beginning with agreement on
with existing and future  (1990) and recent analysis on  variability and uncertainties,  the definition of relevant
management plans and,     basin resources, current uses  for the Lake Chad Basin, in  indicators and with a common
ultimately, to assist in  and constraints, environmental relation with the objectives of understanding of the level of
evaluating SAP            threats, transboundary issues  existing management plans and countries compliance with its
implementation.           and a Strategic Action Plan are of the Strategic Action Plan.  national and regional
available.                                          management plans or
regulatory structures.
A definition of key
environmental indicators for
the Chad Lake Basin is    Total:    50
missing.                                            Cost to GEF: 50
Total: Zero baseline
Activity 4.5
Develop risk analysis     Risk alert system is limited to a Regional training in risk  Regional agreement on
capability within the     flood-alert system within Chad assessment, focusing on  identified main risks and on
participating countries with the country.           transboundary impacts related, remedial actions to be jointly
objective of, among other                           or transported, with water  implemented by countries, with
things, assessing regional-level                    (agricultural, industrial,  the support of environmental
hydro-environmental risk and                         iological and natural risks).  assessment (EA).
identification of                                   National inventories and
risk-management systems and                         assessment of risks, and of
approaches                                          response/adaptive capabilities.
Common design of
risk-management systems and
Total: 100                approaches with the objective
of risk reduction.        Cost to GEF: 175
Total:      275
Activity 4.6
Assemble a basin-wide     The Komadogou-Yobe river  The active WB projects and  Additional work and
synthetic framework for   and upper aquifer is studied by  ew GEF outputs and  assessment, in particular
surface/groundwater       the "National Fadama      commitment will be used by  conceming sub-basin links
interaction within the Lake  Development Project" in  the PMU, the participating  between groundwater and
Chad Basin to pre-identify  Nigeria, funded by the World  countries and the LCBC to  surface water management, will
long-term consequences of  Bank and Federal Gvt. Of  leverage other donors to  be carried out, taking into
development altematives   Nigeria. The Chari-Logone  complete selected surface water account new needs and
flood plain, and the      and groundwater assessment  priorities identified by the
Komadogou-Yobe river have  work and models within the  PMU.
been modeled with some     asin.
assumptions conceming
infiltration and topography.
Total:  1,491
Total: 1,000                                        Cost to GEF 491
rOTAL OUTPUT 4                                 4,97                      7,032                      2,05
- 57 -



Output 5: Regional Programm Development and Demonstration projects to test methodologies, stakeholder Involvement
and implementation modalities
Cost/Benefit              BASELINE (B)              ALTERNATIVE            (A) INCREMENT (A-B)
(1000 US $)               2003-2006                 (1000 US $)
(1000 US $)
Activity 5.1
Develop and begin         Protected areas have been  Addhtional outputs of this  Agreement and formulation of
implementation of a regional  identified in previous  component will be focused on a regional program for the
program to improve existing  diagnostics and in PDF-B.  improved regional cooperation coherent and participatoiy
and define new protected areas, New project has been recently to enhance existing protected  implementation of protected,
including the creation of  formulated (Parc National de  areas, in relation with shared  cross-border corridors between
corridors to link existing and  Manda in Tchad).    waters, with new protected  protected areas. Regional and
new protected areas                                 international corridors to be  participatory contribution to
identified and discussed for  the bio-diversity conservation
implementation.           on the basin.
Total: 1,058
Total:      1,358         Cost to GEF: 300
Activity 5.2
Develop and begin         Some projects, mainly in Niger In addition to the threatened  Identify and devise tested
implementation of a regional  and Chad, without regional  Kanem dunes and     solutions for land degradation
program, including        cooperation to address    Goudoumaria's oasis ponds,  and for the conservation of
establishment of pilot    cross-border water impacts  other pilot demonstration sites threatened aquatic ecosystems,
demonstration sites, to protect and/or harmonization of good  will be implemented in Nigeria in particular those of key
immediately threatened aquatic practices            and Cameroon, with a strong  drought sensitive ponds and
ecosystems                                          emphasis on stakeholder   lakes. Subsequent formulation
participation and technology  of an appropriate regional
transfer. Joint (regional)  program.
detailed inventory, evaluation  Type: Complementary
and program formulation   (domestic benefits but not a
Total : 748                                         national priority)
Total:      1,199
Cost to GEF: 451
Activity 5.3
Develop a regional program  Some projects and activities  Develop a regional program  Regional agreement on joint
aimed at reducing growing  (mainly in Nigeria) without  after full assessment of the  assessments of water
water demand with an      regional cooperation to address current situation (technical,  management in hot-spot sites.
emphasis on identified    cross-border impacts of water economic, social,      Local agreement on workable
hot-spots identified in the LCB demand management.  environmental) in five selected altemative of water demand
Strategic Action Plan.                              demonstration sites, with a  management. Design of an
strong emphasis on stakeholder appropriate regional program
participation.            involving five demonstration
Total: 3,068                                        projects.
Total:      3,568
Cost to GEF: 500
Activity 5.4
Support development of a  Limited activities, mainly in  In cooperation with affected  First step for a concerted joint
regional mechanism to create  Central African Republic,  stakeholders (public, private,  effort to prevent future
and implement a regional  without regional cooperation to local populations, professional pollution threats.
program to anticipate future  address cross-border water  associations, and fishermen)
pollution threats and build  impacts                implement a regional
capacity to prevent their                           mechanism capable of
occurrence                                           discussing survey results and
the design of a future regional
program to prevent pollution
threats.                  Cost to GEF: 281
Total: 750
Total:      1,031
Activity 5.5
Support a regional mechanism  Completed projects in  Support a pilot demonstration  A basin approach to flood
- 58-



o develop integrated basin  Cameroon and in Nigeria:  project to test the efficacy of  plain management has been
approaches (including     Waza-Logone project, and  altering current upstream  developed and tested, in
floodplain management) in the Hadejia-Nguru project with  regulation to provide water to  particular to provide water to
Kamadagou-Yobe and        limited regional cooperation to sensitive wetlands downstream. sensitive wetlands downstream
Chari-Logone sub-basins.  address cross-border water
Using with full stakeholder  impacts, and without full  Develop two regional programs
participation, design and  integration of water     for Komadogou-Yobe and
initiate basin development and management of dam releases,  Chari-Logone sub-basins, for a
management plans, with    current and long-term water  sub-basin integrated approach
supporting decision aid tools, uses, aquifer recharges and  to flood plain long-term
to maintain the integrity of  downstream impacts on  management.
sensitive wetlands systems  wetlands and human habitats.                      Cost to GEF: 950
downstream and promote                              Total:      4,306
sustainable development.
Total: 3,300
Activity 5.6                                        Incorporation of project results
Feedback of demonstration                           into the design of the SAP
results into SAP design
Total: Zero baseline      Total: 50                 Cost to GEF: 56
TOTAL OUTPUT 5            8,924                     11,461                    2,537
-59-



Output 6: Donor support mobilized for GEF SAP and LCBC Plan Implementation. Finalisation of the TWA and regloral
agreement on GEF SAP                                 .
Cost/Benefit             BASELINE (B)              ALTERNATIVE (A)          INCREMENT (A-B)
(US$ 1000)               2003-2006                (US$1000)
(US$1000)
Activity 6.1
Development and
implementation of a plan for
continuing donor contact.  Total: Zero baseline    Total: 75 (CTA- Activity 1.1) Cost to GEF: 84
Activity 6.2
Planning and implementation                       In kind contribution from
of two donor conferences, one                     riparian countries
shortly after GEF project
approval and one immediately
prior to SAP implementation. Total: Zero baseline                           Cost to GEF: 65
Total:  11                 _  __ _ _  _ __ _  _ _
Activity 6.3
Develop and finalize the SAP  No strategic program to  National and regional  A TDA and SAP in GEF
through the use of       address transboundary is  specialists and authorities  format.
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating available          finalize the SAP, through a
Committees and the LCBC                            multi-sectoral dialogue in each
country. (see activity 1.4)
Total: Zero baseline     Total: 175                Cost to GEF:190
Activity 6.4
Preparation of donor
conference reports and
development of a strategy for
ongoing project finance.  Total: Zero baseline     Total: 10                Cost to GEF: 23
TOTAL OUTPUT 6     _0_                                                   364                      362
TOTALS                   |                   23,662|                  33,2621                    9,600
F.      World Bank Co-Financing
In addition to the GEF contribution the increment will include $74 million of co-financing from the
World Bank. These co-financing contributions have been selected in such a way as to relate directly to
Components 2, 5, and 6 of the project, i.e the non-GEF funded World Bank increment of the project.
They are summarized as follows:
Central Africa Regional and Environmental Information Management Program ($20 million total), in
which the Govermments of Central Africa Republic and Cameroon participate, thus amounting to $5.0
million viewed as a sub-project. The Cameroon Forest and Environment Program has a $10 million GEF
component which will contribute to improvement in land and water resources in the Lake Chad and
adjoining watersheds, with $20 million total. In Chad, both the Agricultural Services and Producer
Organizations Project (ASPOP), with a total project cost of $39 million, and the Local Development
Project (PRODEL), with a total project cost of $41 million, contain components which will be demanding
and managing Basin surface water resources; co-financing is estimated at $5 and $2 million, respectively.
An Integrated Ecosystem Management Project in Chad, with a $48 million total budget and $10 million
GEF financing, will complement the Lake Chad regional work at the community level. In Niger, the
Community Action Project ($34 million) contains a GEF component of $4 million to implement
microgrant works, whereas an estimated $4 million of the $80 million Water Sector Project contributes to
-60 -



water resource management, urban sanitation, and similar works. Nigeria's Second Fadama Project of
$100 million has a corresponding GEF project of $15 million developed in concert. The Local
Empowerment and Environmental Management Project is receiving $8 million of its $81 budget in GEF
grants to finance microgrant activities and other related programs. An estimated $10 million of the Urban
Water Sector Reform Project, currently budgeted at $205 million, will be dedicated to water resource
management institution building and an urban sanitation pilot. Lastly, the entirety of the Nigeria Small
Town Water Pilot of $5 million has been counted as co-financing due to the dire need for urban sanitation
in Nigeria small towns and cities and the potential to leverage learning from this pilot
-61 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin
Ecosystem
Years Ending FY2006
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
FY03             FY04            FY05        FY06
Total Financing Required
Project Costs__                _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   _               _  _ _ _
Investment Costs                5.21             5.30            3.88        1.93
Total Project Costs             5.21             5.30            3.88        1.93
Total Financing                 5.21             5.30            3.88        1.93
Financing
GEF/Iorid Bank                  0.67             1.28            0.69        0.27
Borrower/Reciplent              0.17             0.08            0.08        0.08
DFID                            1.87             1.87            1.87        1.87
DGIS                            0.79             0.66            0.52
Sub-Borrower                    0.67             0.41            0.41        0.26
UNDP                            2.00             2.13            1.63        1.29
WWF                             0.06             0.03            0.03        0.03
Total Project Financing         6.23             6.46            5.23         3.8
-62 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements.   The Lake Chad Basin GEF Project is a stand-alone Global
Environment Facility (GEF) Project. Procurement of works and goods will follow the World Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995, and revised
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of services financed by
the GEF Trust Fund will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised September 1997, January
1999, and May 2002. The World Bank's latest editions of standard bidding documents and contracts
will be used. The Bank managed portion of the project will be executed by LCBC. Given LCBC's
current limitations and to ensure successful implementation of the Project, it has been agreed with
LCBC that a contractual arrangement (Management Services Agreement or MSA) will be made
between LCBC and UNOPS for delivering Bank-implemented GEF Project components.
Finalization of this MSA, as to be agreed between the LCBC and UNOPS, and to be reviewed for
clearance in accordance with World Bank procurement, disbursement, and legal procedures, will be
one of the Conditions for Effectiveness for the GEF Grant. UNOPS will establish a project
management unit (PMU) at the LCBC in N'Djamena staffed with the appropriate technical and
managerial staff, including adequately qualified procurement staff. This PMU will be responsible for
the implementation of the project, including the procurement function. As the Project will be
executed by UNOPS and no procurement actions will be directly undertaken by LCBC, a
procurement capacity assessment of LCBC was not required.
Advertising. An initial General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in the UN
Development Business (UNDB) on-line and in hard copy. Subsequent GPNs will indicate all the
procurement contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more where the
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) method of procurement will be used. The GPN will be
updated on a yearly basis and will show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for
goods contracts and all International Consulting Services (ICS). Specific Procurement Notices
(SPN) for goods to be procured under ICB and Expressions of Interest for consultant services
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 and above will also be published in the UN
Development Business as well as in the international and national press. In addition, expressions of
interest may be sought from prospective consultants by advertising in national newspapers of riparian
countries or technical magazines. In the case of assignments estimated to cost US$150,000 or less
the assignment may be advertised nationally in riparian countries and the shortlist may be made up
entirely of national consultants provided that at least three qualified national firms or individuals are
available in the participating countries and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not
excluded from consideration.
Procurement Planning. An Overall Procurement Plan (OPP) for consultant services and goods,
which will be part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for the PMU, has been prepared and will
be finalized at effectivness. The OPP includes relevant information on consulting services and goods
as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The first year's Detailed
Procurement Plan (DPP) has been prepared and will be finalized and cleared at effectiveness. The
DPPs for the remaining years of the project, indicating the procurement method and processing time
for each contract, will be submitted to the Bank every year for its review and comments not later than
three months before the end of each fiscal year.
- 63 -



Goods and Equipment (US$0.4 mUlion). Technical equipment and other goods costing US$150,000
and more per contract will be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) requirements. For
goods in the range between US$50,000-US$150,000 contracts will be awarded on the basis of
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) - it should be noted that for this project, NCB includes all of
the participating riparian countries. For goods contracts below US$50,000, contracts will be
awarded either on the basis of the Banks' International Shopping (IS) or National Shopping (NS)
procedures, where price quotations will be obtained from at least three qualified suppliers from at
least two eligible countries, for the former or off-the-shelf goods based on comparison of quotations
obtained from at least three domestic suppliers for the latter.
Consultants' Services, including training and workshops (US$1.5 million). As the majority of work
undertaken in this project is capacity building and technical assistance to the Lake Chad Basin
riparian countries, a large percentage of the expenditure will be for consultant services, much of
which will be based in the Lake Chad Basin. Based on agreed upon criteria, the PMU will maintain
and update a list of consultants which will be used to short-list Consultant firms financed under the
Project will be selected in accordance with Bank consultant guidelines through a quality and
cost-based selection (QCBS), and by using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals. Specialized
local consultant services, will be selected on the basis Consultant Qualifications (CQ) from a
pre-determined roster of qualified consultants or, on rare occasion, on a sole-source basis. Section HI
of Consultants Guidelines gives more information regarding the delineation and application of
QCBS, CQ, and sole-source methods. Training under the project will be implemented according to
an annual training plan that the PMU will prepare and submit to the Bank for approval before
implementation.
In hiring consultants, the project will seek complementarities between local experience and good
practice at the regional and intemational levels. National / regional consultants with specialized
knowledge of the local conditions will be sought. If the project needs an intervention based upon a
broader experience, an intemational consultant will be hired to work alongside the national / regional
consultant. This will ensure a highly localized intervention that is supported by international good
practice as needed. An added benefit will be the creation of a network of skilled consultants at the
national, regional and international levels who are familiar with the Lake Chad project
The following selection procedures would be used:
(a)    Ouality-and-Cost-based Selection: All consulting service contracts costing more
than US$100,000 would be awarded through Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. To
ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants,
short-lists for contracts estimated at or less than US$150,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely
of national consultants from the Lake Chad riparian countries (in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of qualified individual
or firms (at least three) are available. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they would
not be excluded from consideration.
(b)    Consultant's Oualification Selection may be used for consulting services for
research, and targeted interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong
capacities to work with multi-national groups and proven track records would be recruited. The
amount of the contract is estimated to cost less than US$50,000.
- 64 -



(c)    Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant
Guidelines will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants method.
Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison of curriculum vitae against job
description requirements of those expressing interest in the assignment, or those having been
identified directly by the PMU. Consultants hired under the project cannot be civil servants.
(d)    The use of non-govermnental organizations (NGOs) and/or the private sector
will be used for the execution of the pilot demonstration projects in Component 5. NGOs are
voluntary nonprofit organizations that may be uniquely qualified to assist in the preparation,
management, and implementation of projects, essentially because of their involvement and
knowledge of local issues, community needs, and/or participatory approaches. The criteria used for
narrowing the list of potential candidates for project execution in the case of the Lake Chad Basin
GEF project includes: previous and current project implementation capacities; knowledge of
community economic needs and potentials, including local language capacities; demonstrated ability
to work with local and regional government officials across several sectors, including agriculture,
livestock, fisheries, rural hydraulics, and experience working with UNOPS or other supra-contracting
agencies. The NGOs which have been selected to execute the Komadougou-Yobe and Waza-Logone
pilot demonstration projects have been selected on a single-source basis, according to the criteria
outlined in Section 3.9. In two of these cases, single source selection was deemed appropriate due to
the natural continuation of the NGOs Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project and
Waza-Logone Wetlands Conservation Project of their previous work in the same physical project
area.
In order to provide for this continuity in piloting of community-based land and water resource
management techniques, the PMU will work with the NGOs in the following manner: the initial
Request for Proposals (RFP) shall outline this prospect and, if practical, the factors used for the
selection of the Consultant should take the likelihood of continuation into account. The RFP will
emphasize continuity in the technical approach, experience acquired, and continued professional
liability of the same NGOs, which may make continuation with the initial NGO preferable to a new
competition subject to satisfactory performance in the initial assignment. For such downstream
assignments, the PMU shall ask the initially selected NGO to prepare technical and financial
proposals on the basis of TOR furnished by the PMU, which shall then be negotiated.
In the case of the Lake Fitri pilot demonstration project, which is newly designed, the executing
agency will be put to competitive bid, to be selected from among NGOs, and the private sector. This
was confirmned during the appraisal mission in April 2002, which conducted a site visit to the Lake
Fitri area, including numerous interviews with local community members to ask about preferred
service providers. The criteria used for narrowing the list of potential candidates for project
execution in the case of Lake Fitri will includes: previous and current project implementation
capacities; knowledge of local community economic needs and potentials, including local language
capacities; demonstrated ability to work with local and regional government officials across several
sectors, including seasonal lakebed agriculture, livestock watering, community and commercial
fisheries, biodiversity, especially migratory birds, and rural hydraulics; and experience working with
UNOPS or other supra-contracting agencies.
Training, Workshops, and Conference. Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours
will be carried out on the basis of approved annual programs that will identify the general framework
of training and similar activities for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops,
the number of participants, and cost estimates.
- 65-



Prior Review Thresholds (Table B). The World Bank will conduct a prior review of the following
procurement documentation:
a) Goods and Equipment: All ICB contracts, and the first contract to be procured using NCB,
and the first contract to be procured using shopping will be subject to prior review, with all following
contracts subject to post review.
b) Worky: All ICB contracts, and the first contract to be procured using NCB will be subject to
prior review, with all following contracts subject to post review.
c) Consultants' Services: The first contract with a firm, and all subsequent contracts with firms
above US$100,000, will be submitted for prior review. Individual consultant contracts above
US$50,000 will all be subject to prior review. With respect to any contracct for the employment of a
consulting firm or an individual consultant under the project, the draft Terms of Reference shall be
submitted to the Bank for its prior review and approval. All single-source selection shall be subject
to the Bank's prior review.
d) Operational expenses: All individual long term contracts (greater than six months) for project
staff will be subject to prior review.
e) The contracts that would not be subject to prior review would be subject to ex-post review.
Processing: All procurement packages will be prepared by the PMU following the procurement plan and
procedures agreed with the Bank. The PMU will forward these packages, via UNOPS, to the Bank for
prior review and 'no objection', as required.
Frequency ofprocurement implementation support missions: It is suggested that procurement
implementation support be provided to this project twice a year as needed, which would include a focus
on post-review/audits as specified above. It is also suggested that this procurement implementation
support be given to LCBC/PMU headquarters in N'Djamena as well as UNOPS-New York.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        0.26         0.00        0.00        0.26
(0.00)      (0.26)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.26)
2. Goods, including vehicles  0.00      0.00         0.58        3.52        4.10
0.00       (0.00)       0.26        0.00        (0.26)
3. Microgrants              0.00        0.00         0.13        0.00        0.13
0.00        0.00        (0.13)      0.00        (0.13)
4. Consulting Services      0.00        0.00         2.75        8.31        11.06
and Audits               (0.00)      (0.00)      (1.20)       (0.00)      (1.20)
5. Training and Workshops   0.00        0.00         0.52        0.54        0.94
0.00        0.00        (0.52)      0.00        (0.52)
6. Incremental              0.00        0.00         0.10        2.34        2.44
Operating Costs          (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.13)      (0.00)      (0.13)
Unallocated                                                               (0.40)
-66 -



[otal                             I                 I                I                I
-67 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
-Selection M,ethod
Consultant Servlces
Expenditiwre CategoY  -QCBS  .QS      SF8     L(u      CQ     Other    N.B.F.' Total Cost
A. Firms               0.55    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.16    0.64     0.00     1.35
(0.55)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.16)   (0.64)  (0.00)   (1.35)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.90    0.40     8.81    10.11
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.15)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.15)
Total  0.55    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.06    1.04    8.81     11.46
(0.55)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.31)   (0.64)  (0.00)   (1.50)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure Category     Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Method             Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                             (US$ millions)
1. Goods                      >150                   ICB                   All
50 - 150               NCB             First contract only
<50                 Shopping          First contract only
2. Works                      >150                   ICB                   All
50 - 150               NCB          First three contracts, then
post-review
<50          Community participation    Post-Review
and/or minor works
3. Services - Firms           >100                  QCBS                   All
<100                   CQ             First contract only
LCS
SS                    All
All TORs
4. Services - Individuals      <50                   CQ              First ten contracts
SS              All SS contracts
All project long-term
staff (>6 months)
All TORs
-68-



N.B. (i) All terms of reference for consulting services will be subject to the Bank's prior review; (ii)
Procurement performance (including MSD's procurement activities) will be assessed on an annual basis
(in the form of procurement audits by an external agency), and the threshold levels for various methods
of procurement may be revised based on the assessment results; (iii) Training abroad and in-country,
workshops and study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved annual programs that would
identify the nature of training/study tours/workshops, institutions where training/study tours/workshops
would be conducted (selection of institutions and justification thereof), cost estimates and contents of the
course.
-69-



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The proposed allocation of grant proceeds is shown in Table C. Disbursements of GEF funds will
finance: (i) 100% of all expenditures in foreign currency; (ii) 80% of civil works local costs; (iii) 100%
of local consultants services and training and (iv) 100% of incremental operation expenses. The Lake
Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) has non-profit status in Chad and therefore is exempt from the
Standard Disbursement Percentage (SDP) requirement. This exemption has also been documented in
Section I: "Compliance with Bank Policies" of the Project Appraisal Document. All applications to
withdraw proceeds from the grant must be fully documented, except for contracts not subject to prior
review by GEF. For the rest of the contracts, disbursements will be made against Statement of Expenses
(SOEs) certified by the Project Manager of the PMU.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
-,.Expenditure Category     - IArnount in"US$million   -----Financing Percentage -i
1. Works                                  0.26                         90
2. Goods, including Vehicles              0.26                  100 foreign, 80 local
3. Microgrants                            0.13                        100
4. Consulting Services and Audits         1.20                         100
5. Training and Workshops                 0.52                         100
6. Incremental Operating Costs            0.13                         100
7. Unallocated                            0.40
Total Project Costs                       2.90
Total                                     2.90
Flow of Funds
The Bank and the UNDP will administer separately the GEF's funds, respectively 30 % and 70 %. A
Grant Agreement signed between the Bank and LCBC will stipulate that the execution of the Bank's
portion of the project is entrusted to UNOPS. LCBC will in turn sign a Management Services Agreement
with UNOPS for the portion of the project to be executed by UNDP. The GEF's funds will flow directly
from the Bank and UNDP to UNOPS and not via a LCBC account. Thus, UNOPS will be in direct
contact with the Bank and UNDP to submit withdrawal applications: direct payments and replenishments
of the Imprest Account maintained in a commercial bank in NDjamena. This Account will finance the
local activities of the project. An initial advance to be determined will be deposited into the Account and
will be replenished after proper accounting has been received from UNOPS/PMU.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Requests for funds withdrawals will be properly documented for all expenditures to be paid out of the
GEF Grant, except for the following contracts for which disbursements will be made against SOEs
certified by the Project Manager: (a) contracts for goods with a unitary value below US$100,000
equivalent; (b) contracts with consulting firms with a unitary value below US$100,000 equivalent and
with individual consultants for an amount below US$75,000 equivalent; (c) additional operating
expenses; and (d) training. Documentation of such SOEs will be retained by the PMU and made
available for review, on request, to procurement and financial auditors and to WB/GEF supervision
missions.
- 70-



Special account:
In order to facilitate local disbursements UNOPS will establish an Imprest Account in a local bank
managed by the PCU to meet the operational needs of the project. The imprest level will normally be set
at 11/2 months of anticipated expenditure to ensure that funds are available at the beginning of the current
month while awaiting replenishment from UNOPS or local UNDP office. The level will be reviewed
periodically and adjusted by UNOPS Finance and Budget Section in consultation with the Imprest
Holder. All transactions reported through Imprest Accounts are to be made in accordance with UNOPS
Financial Regulations, Financial Rules applicable to UNOPS, and the relevant administration directives
and procedures.
Financial Management:
UTNOPS and the PMU will be responsible for preparing the annual consolidated financial statements. All
documentation relating to procurement, contracts and invoices will be retained and made available to
supervision missions and auditors.
The Bank has assessed the management system which will be used at the PMU in order to determine
whether it can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project as required by the Bank (refer to report on "the evaluation of Project Management Unit "financial
management system" in the project's files). This assessment concluded that the system is adequate for
the Project to proceed to Board approval and should be able to produce Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMR) by effectiveness.  The replenishment of the Imprest Account will be made against
transaction-based (SOEs). In addition to the financial statements that have to be submitted each year, the
PMU will submit quarterly monitoring reports on financial statements, physical implementation and
management of contracts for goods, works and consultants'services.
During negotiations, the LCBC provided assurances: (a) that project financial statements will be audited
in accordance with internationally recognized auditing standards by the UNDP Office of Audit and
Performance Review according to previously agreed standards between UNOPS and the World Bank.
The audit reports and financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the end of
the fiscal year; (b) that, in addition to an opinion on the financial statements expressed in their succinct
report, the auditors will be asked to review in depth all SOEs, which include payments made through
Imnprest Accounts, and internal control procedures used for their preparation during the period under
review, in order to express a separate opinion on them; and (c) that, finally, the auditors will carry out a
detailed review of the project's system of internal controls, with a view to identifying its main
weaknesses and making recommendations for improvement.  The results of this review will be
incorporated into a letter to Management to be submitted along with the auditors'reports.
It is the reponsibility of UNOPS to have the project's financial statements audited annually and the audit
reports submitted to the Bank and UNDP. The auditors will be provided by UNOPS internally according
to Annex VI of the Management Services Agreement.
Financial management risks
There are some financial management risks related to the fact that the current financial management
system is not fully computerized. However, these risks will be mitigated by: (i) the technical and
managerial assistance to be provided by UNOPS and (ii) regular Bank missions including SOE reviews
and timely follow up on management letter issues.
-71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Project Schedule                                 Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     12                          36
First Bank mission (identification)            06/30/2000                  06/30/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    03/31/2001                  04/15/2002
Negoiations                                    09/01/2001                  08/02/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/2002                  02/01/2003
Prepared by:
Tracy Hart, Franklin Cardy, Inger Andersen, Ousniane Dione, World Bank;
Undala Alam, World Bank and UNDP
David LaRoche, UNDP;
Jacob Burke, FAO;
Preparation assistance:
Marie-Adele Tchakounte Sitchet, Annele Vilceus, and Marjorie Kingston, World Bank
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Tracy Hart                        Senior Economist
Frankiin Cardy                    Principal Water Resource Management Specialist
Ousmane Dione                     Water Resource Management Specialist
Undala Alarn                      Water Resource Specialist
Marie-Adele Tchakounte Sitchet    Language Program Assistant
Armele Vilceus                    Language Team Assistant
Marjorie Kingston                 Team Assistant
Robert Robelus                    Senior Environmental Assessment Specialist
Kristine Ivarsdottar              Senior Social Development Specialist / Anthropologist
Karen Hudes                       Senior Counsel
Magaye Gaye                       Financial Management Specialist
Agnes Albert-Loth                 Senior Financial Management Specialist
Tesfaalem Iyesus                  Procurement Specialist
Samuel Redji Mobeal               Resource Management Specialist
Jeff Lecksell                     Cartographer
Alessandro Palmieri               Lead Dam Safety Advisor
Christophe Crepin                 AFR GEF Coordinator / AFR Peer Reviewer
William Leeds Lane                AFR Peer Reviewer
Rune Castberg                     ECA Peer Reviewer
Willem Zijp                       AFR Quality Assurance Advisor
Richard Verspyck                  Lead Economist, Quality Assurance
- 72 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
A. Project Implementation Plan
Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem Project
Implementation Manual (PIM)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
GEF Proposal for a PDF-C Block C Grant Regional: Lake Chad Basin Countries
GEF Approved Project Brief: Development and Implementation of a Strategic Action Program (SAP) for
the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem (4 January 1999)
UNDP Expedited Project Document, "Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends / Land Chad
Basin Ecosystem"
February Intersessional Work Program: Comments from Council Members (Reference to GEF/IS/6) -
February 9, 2000
The Lake Chad Convention Basin: A Diagnostic Study of Environmental Degradation (Kindler et al.,
November 1989)
Project Outline: Impact Assessment of Changing Land Use in the Head Waters of the Lake Chad Basin
(Central African Republic)
Project Outline: Lake Fitri Management Plan Definition
Contribution to the Development of an Integrated Management Plan for the Lake Fitri, Chad
Projet Pilote Transfrontalier Tchad-Niger de lutte l'Ensablement et Inversion de la Tendance des
Degradations des Eaux du Lac Tchad
Outline Definition of a GEF Pilot Project on the Continued Funding and Extension of Current Work to
Monitor Current Releases in the Area of the Waza National Park to Cover the Chari River, Including
Updating of the Hydrodynamic Model for the Area
Outline Definition of a GEF Pilot Project on Integrated Wetlands Management in the Komadougou-Yobe
Basin
Pilot Project for the Sustainable Management of the Lake Chad Shoreline, Through the RAMSAR
Management Planning Process
Environmental and Social Assessment Report, January 2002
- 73-



Maga Damn, Tiga Dam and Challawa Gorge Darn Safety Assessments, March 2002
Memorandum of Agreement between the Lake Chad Basin Commission and UNDP for Management and
Other Support Services to be Provided by UNOPS in Respect of a World Bank Implemented LCBC/GEF
Project
Global Environmental Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
*Including electronic files
- 74-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends In the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev d
P071233       2001 MULTICOUNTRY HIV/AIDS PROGRAM FOR AFRICA          0.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00    106.61       0.00      0.00
P036037        1999 OIL SPILL CONTINGENCY                            0.00      0.00                 3.15      0.00      2.40       1.24      0.00
P000003        1998 REIMP(CEN.ENV..INFO)                             0.00      0.00                 4.10      0.00      1.93       2.16      0.00
P000001        1996 COMMCONSERV&WILDL                                0.00      0.00                 4.40      0.00      2.82       3.89      0.00
Total:       000        0.00              11.65        0.00     113.75       7.29      000
-75-



AFRICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Dlsbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               AIF                           0.00   74.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.55     0.00    0.00
1999               AIM                           0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10     0.00    0.00
1993               Africa Fund                   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50     0.00    0.00
1999               ETI                           0.00    3.75    3.75    0.00    0.00    3.75     3.75    0.00
2000               MSIC[H                        0.00    10.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1999               PROPARCO AL                  17.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        17.72   96.25    3.75    0.00     0.00   29.90    3.75    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
1999               AIF                             0.00      0.00  25000.00     0.00
2000               MSICIH                           0.00     0.00   3500.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00  28500.00     0.00
-76 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Lake Chad    Low &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Basin   middle
Commission    Income       Development dlamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                                168.0   5,177.8                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                               300     1.160
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                50.4   5,990.3
Average annual growth. 1995-01
Population (%)                                                   2.6       1.5     G                 K
Labor force (%)                                                  2.7       1.8     GNI                             Gross
per    '                    Iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (X ofpopulation below national poverty line)
Urban population (X of total population)                         43        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 47        64
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                          87       58
Child malnutrHion (% of children under 5)                         27        ..           Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)-             56        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                              38       24              Lake Chad Basin Commission
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)              77       104
Male                                                           85       107              Low & middle income group
Female                                                         69       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           71.3     45.4      54.2      54.3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 23.6     20.2                                        Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            23.0     30.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   18.1     24.3
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..    17.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -10.5     -3.1       2.7      -1.9     Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         1.2      5.0       1.1       1.7     savings
Total debt/GDP                               21.9     95.6      86.8
Total debt service/exports                   10 3     22.0       6.5
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      65.8
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..     141.9
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141       2000      2001
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           2.7      2.5       3.5       4.4              Lake Chad Basin Commission
GDP per capita                               -0.3     -0.3       1.1       2 0              Low & middle income group
Exports of goods and services                 3.1      3.7      -1.9       4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                                  29.2     30.3      34.3
IndustrY                                    33.4     38.7      3bo.9        ..     33                     _    
Manufacturing                               9.2      8.2        6.2
Services                                     37.3     31.0      28.8        ..      o'                                 5
-  8 97   98    95    00   01
Private consumption                          69.9     63.2        ..        ..    -33
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  11.9     12.5         .         .                    GDI        GOP
Imports of goods and services                28.5     26.5
1981-91  199141       2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.5      4.2       4.7               30
Industry                                      1.2      0.8       6.7        ..     20
Manufacturing                               1.6      1.4        7.4        .._
Services                                      2.7      2.0       0.9        ..     15
Private consumption                          -1.7     -2.8     -30.6      -7 2      o           9e 7  QseN    0      01
General govemment consumption                -1.0      8.9      69.2      14.0    -10
Gross domestic investment                    -4 9      7.0      32.3      17.5            -Exports       Ilmports
Imports of goods and services               -10.3      5.9      15.5      20.8
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.Thls table was produced trom the Development Economcs central database.
The Lake Chad Basin Commission Indudes Chad, Canmeroon, Central Atncan Republic, Niger. and Nigena.
The diamonds show tour key indicators In the country (In bold) compared with its Income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will be Incomplete.
- 77 -



Lake Chad Basin Commission
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prkes                                                                   5
(% change)                                                                      2
Consumer prices                                ..    2.1        2.9      4.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                       10.6      3.1       3.5      4.0    IS T
10
Govemment finance                                                                s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               ..     16.3      35.8     37.1    -s      gg    97    ga 4        M     01
Current budget balance                       6.4     -0.3      16.7     14.2             -     GOP deflator  :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       .,       1.0     -1.5
TRADE
(USS millIons)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       20,140   14,875    23,143   21,426     255.00
Manufactures                                77      353       411      396     20,000
Total imports (cit)                       25,538   10,865    16,016   18,306     s,o..          *
Food                                     3,669    1,025     1,961    2.265     toooo     t      L_
Fuel and energy                            499       98       284      340     sooos
Capital goods                              388      655       560      586         .E      .      |         |         s
Export price index (1995100)                   ..                                                97   ss   99  oD   ot
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        ..       ..                Exports    * irrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UISS millions)                            1981     1991      2000      2001     Cunant account balanco to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             20,963   15,538    24,770   23.042      8
Imports of goods and services             25,138   13,404    20,217   22,357      s       _
Resource balance                          -4,175    2,134     4,552      685      4,--
Net income                                -2,826   -3.770    -4,975   -3,689 6
Notcurrenttransfers                          112     225      1,863    1.958              08  a9               00
Current account balance                   -7,458   -1,411     1,439    -1,046  _4 -
Financing items (net)                      1,215    1,725     2.793    2,231     -
Changes in net reserves                    6.243     -314    -4,233    -1,185   -.1
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      15,593   43,345    47,002
IBRD                                      730     4,021     1,843        ..                G:2,669  A   : 3,043
IDA                                       358     1,298     3,043        .F: 4,4Eg           --          :3.409
Totaldebtservice                           2.284    3,505     1,640        ..                                 D.2.184
IBRD                                       88      713       452         ..
IDA                                         8       17        51         ..
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           210      823       450
Official creditors                        488      458       -137
Private creditors                        2,044     -165     -231
Foreign direct investment                 682      711      1,149        ..
Portfolio equity                            0        0          2        ..
E: 32,385
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       ..      341       592     A - IBRD                   E - Biateral
Disbursements                              143     465       240         .        B-IDA  D- Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       39      346       356        C.      - IMF                     G - Shnrt-trm
Net flows                                  104     120      -116
Interest payments                          57      385        147
Net transfers                              47      -265     -263
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.  8/23/02
Inflation figures are median values. Balance of payments items excluding exports and imports are simple sums and may not reconcile.
The Lake Chad Basin Commission incdudes Chad, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Niger, and Nigeria.
- 78-



Additional Annex 11
Project Description of UNDP and World Bank components
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
A.     Overview
Lake Chad basin. Situated in the eastern part of the Sahel region of Africa, at the southern edge of the
Sahara desert, Lake Chad and its active basin constitutes an important freshwater resource shared by
Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Niger and Nigeria. The surface area of the lake varies
considerably with the amount of annual rainfall, and the recent historical variation in the surface area of
the lake has ranged from approximately 25,000 sq.km to 1,350 sq.km. Lake Chad was Africa's fourth
largest lake (in terms of surface area) after Victoria, Tanganyika, and Nyasa. Lake Chad is shallow - its
average depth being 1.5 m, and is of relatively small volume. One of Lake Chad's tributaries, the Chari
River, supplies approximately 95 percent of the lake's surface water input. The lake is subject to
considerable evaporation and yet is not saline.
Hydrological context. The geological and geomorphological development of the basin has been
conditioned by the slow and 'cool' rifting of the West and Central African Rift System which has formed
a regional hydrological sink - the Lake Chad waterbody. The contributing sub-basins are underlain by
basement complex in the upper source areas and by a progressively thick sequence of sedimentary
deposits toward the Lake. The hydro-stratigraphy in the sedimentary aquifers underlying the lake are
only partially understood and the hydro-dynamic linkages to the Lake Chad waterbody therefore
conjectural. However, it is apparent that the close interaction between rainfall, evaporation, the
generation of lateral inflow to the lake and the groundwater leakage under the body of the lake influence
the overall lake balance. A distinction has to be made between hydrological and hydrogeological context
of each influent tributary, and the aggregate water balance of Lake Chad itself. Equally there is a marked
distinction between a humid period (prior to 1973) and the current drought regime that has persisted over
the last three decades. The significant feature of the hydrological context is the persistent change in the
rainfall patterns over the basin as a whole. In the last 30 years isoheytal contours of mean rainfall have
shifted to the south by an order of several hundred kilometres. The results of this shift are that areas that
had experienced a mean rainfall of 320 mm (for example, over the lake itself) now receive less than 210
mm. In the hydrologically active upstream basins, the decrease in mean rainfall of hundreds of mm per
year, has brought about a proportionally larger decrease in basin yield as river runoff and effluent
groundwater flow is reduced and flow thresholds reduced. This persistence in the rainfall regime is
therefore resulting in a very attenuated basin yield and has to be set against burgeoning human demands
upon the land and water resources of the system generally.
Ecological context Historically, the most pronounced feature of the Lake Chad basin (LCB) has been
its wetlands. Lake Chad itself is the second largest wetland in Africa, and hosts biodiversity of global
significance. The richness of the basin's floodplains support a wide range of economic activities -
recession agriculture, pastoralism, forest regeneration, fish breeding and production, drought fallback
security, and tourism potential. Because no species appear to be restricted to the lake, regeneration of the
fishery is possible as long as floodplain habitat remains accessible and fishing is controlled, particularly
during dry periods when the stocks are more vulnerable. For this reason the fish stocks have had the
capacity to rebound dramatically, even after the complete disappearance of the surface lake in the 15th
century. Recently, basin fisheries have suffered from a combination of influences and practices that
include drought, over-fishing, diversion or blockage of instream flows, increased juvenile catch through
use of smaller mesh sizes, and the near complete disappearance of the lake's northern basin. In addition
to the fishery, the basin contains other significant wildlife of regional and global importance. Over 370
- 79-



species of birds have been inventoried in the basin, a third of the bird species being migratory. Concerns
for the health of existing birdlife include a diminishment of nesting areas for the black-crowned crane
and wintering grounds for intercontinental migrants such as the ruff. Other wildlife species in the basin
include the oryx, Damas gazelle, Dorcas gazelle, slender-homed gazelle, elephants, black rhinoceros, the
Lake Lere manatee, and other water dependent species such as crocodile, hippo, sitatunga and waterbuck.
Concerns about these species revolve around poaching, the drought, and lack of trained cadre to protect,
maintain and restore certain species.
Socio-economic dependency. For thousands of years Lake Chad has been a centre of development,
trading and cultural exchange between the people's living to the north of the Sahara and those to the
south. Close to twenty million people depend for their livelihood on activities carried out in the lake and
its active basin, which includes important wetlands and floodplains covering 966,955 sq.km. By the year
2020, the population that depends on the lake and its associated resources is projected to reach 35
million.
Lake Chad Basin Commission. Lake Chad's topographic basin extends over 2.3 million sq.km, but the
hydrologically active basin is less than half that area at 0.97 million sq.km. A further delimitation, "the
conventional basin", arose with the signing, in 1964, of the Convention for the Lake Chad Basin
Comrnission by four riparian countries - Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria. With Central Africa
Republic joining in 1994, a "new conventional basin" was delimited that matches the hydrologically
active basin as it now includes the Chari-Logone and Komadougou-Yobe river systems. Currently,
Sudan is expressing an interest in becoming party to the convention.
Long-term project objective. The long-term objective of the GEF project is to achieve global benefits
through broad, basin wide participation in the development and implementation of measures that ensure
that the integrity of the Lake Chad system is protected by integrated management of the basin's
resources. This requires orchestration of both national and regional activities through a working system
of basin governance. Measures are targeted to, among other things, mitigate the causes and effects of
desertification in the region and building of capacity at regional, national and local levels to create
enhanced adaptive and anticipatory capability. Special attention will be given to the Africa Land and
Water Initiative of the GEF lAs. The project will complement, benefit from, and project personnel will
create direct links to other GEF intemational waters projects in the Senegal, Niger and Volta river basins,
all of which are concerned with desertification issues and are part of the overall GEF effort to address
land degradation issues in Africa. This long term vision and adaptability has been formally agreed by the
riparian countries.
Riparian commitment. In relation to political willingness, the level of project risk is seen as moderate.
The participating countries have few economic resources, have witnessed recent national and regional
strife and, with the continuing drought, lack of donor support, and short term priorities such as human
health, education, basic sanitation, and nutrition, it is difficult to create a focus on what appears to be
longer term environmental imperatives. This situation is somewhat mitigated, however, by a growing
realisation on the part of the countries that environmental sustainability is inextricably linked to food
production, tourism, sanitation, population movements, and thus regional stability. This growing
realisation has led the countries to participate effectively in the work undertaken during the Diagnostic
Study, Master Plan, the PDF-B and, subsequently, in other endeavours. There is growing evidence to
support a conclusion that the countries, notwithstanding to focus on short term priorities at the expense of
environmental integrity, are increasingly committed to a regional approach to shared environmental
concerns as a means of ensuring sustainability of their shared, fragile resources. Political will and
co-operation were expressed for the project and its aims by country participation in and high level,
-80-



formal endorsement of the results of the Diagnostic Study, the Master Plan, and the PDF-B developed
Strategic Action Plan.
Financial sustainability. The financial commitment of the governments is at this time largely in-kind.
There has been recent re-invigoration of donor commitment to direct and related objectives of the GEF
project as evidenced by assistance from BMZ, the EU, and Islamic Development Bank. Countries
continue their financial commitment to the LCBC and contribute 10 percent or more to each project that
has been the subject of donor assistance. As the project is implemented the UNDP will consult on an
ongoing basis, at the Task Team Leader level, with regard to the provision of resources necessary to
securing World Bank assistance to seek project-related investment both during the project
implementation period and post-project. The World Bank will take the lead implemention agency role in
organizing donor conferences.
Project purpose. The purpose of the project is threefold. First to overcome barriers to the concerted
management of the basin through enhanced collaboration and capacity building among riparians and
stakeholders. Second to complete a TDA and prepare a descriptive framework for the concerted water
management across the basin. Third to prepare a SAP for long term implementation of priority actions to
address transboundary issues. The implementation modalities will be tested under this project through
pilot projects, stakeholder involvement, and demonstration of the capacity of riparian countries to
implement. The SAP is distinct from the LCB - 'Strategic Action Plan' prepared under the PDF-B
activities since it will seek to study, test and formulate identified sub-programmes and design a
programnmatic intervention to address these specific transboundary issues. The agreed LCB-Strategic
Plan is much broader in terms of a phased programrnatic approach for sustainable development of the
basin and seeks to involve all donors and actors along a common long term vision and a corresponding
global strategy.
Project goals and objectives. The project will facilitate the development of a broad based constituency
for regional mechanisms to ensure the LCBC member countries collaborate and coordinate their use of
the Lake Chad resources. This it will do by: (i) building awareness of how national policies impact on
regional resources, and capacity among the riparians and stakeholders; (ii) augmenting the existing
constituency through the design of a SAP; (iii) facilitating donor coordination; (iv) collaborating with
ongoing work supported by other donors; and (v) drawing on lessons learnt on regional water
management by coordinating with the GEF projects in the Senegal and Niger river basins.
Project components. The project has six components with a total GEF budget of US$9.6 million (see
Table I below). UNDP is the GEF IA for Components 1, 3, 4 and parts of 5, with a budget of US$6.7
million. The World Bank is responsible for Component 2, parts of Component 5 and Component 6, with
a budget of US$2.9 million. The project is to be implemented over a four-year period from 2003 to 2007.
With some components feeding into one another, there is a natural lag-time between the start of some
components. This lagged implementation supports the strategy of strengthening regional mechanisms for
joint management of Lake Chad.
- 81 -



Table 1. Summary GEF Project Financing (US$)
Project Outputs                 TOTAL         Co-          GEF
financing
Comp.1: Project Mechanisms - An established     2,988,800     650,800    2,338,000
Program Management Unit (PMU) and country lead
agencies
Comp.2: Enhanced regional policy and institutional  1,742,800  661,800   1,081,000
mechanisms
Comp3: Strengthened stakeholder participation and  2,220,200  993,200     1,227,000
education, involvement of stakeholders through
development of local initiatives
Comp.4: Key Measurements, TDA and synthetic basin  2,499,600  444,600     2,055,000
framework                                                      _
Comp.5: Demonstration projects to test methodologies,  .9,015,500  6,478,500  2,537,000
stakeholder involvement and implementation modalities.
Comp.6: Donor support mobilised for SAP and LCBC  462,000      100,000     362,000
Plan implementation
TOTALS                                         18,928,900    9,328,900   9,600,000
PDF (Blocks B and C)                              693,500           0       693,500
Total Project Financing                        19,622,400    9,328,900   10,293,500
Component 1 - UNDP:
Project Mechanisms: An established program management unit (PMU) and nominated lead agencies to
drive and co-ordinate TDA completion, pilot projects, policy initiatives and institutional linkages
(US$2.3 million)
Activity 1.1  Recruit the Project Manager, public participation and communications expertise, and
requisite technical, administrative and secretarial support;
Activity 1.2  Create and organise the PMU to facilitate and co-ordinate the work program of the
project;
Activity 1.3  Create and make provision for the conduct of meetings of the Co-implementation Project
Task Force;
Activity 1.4  Promote, in co-operation with the participating countries and through the LCBC, country
specific inter-ministerial, and local co-ordinating committees, as necessary, and a
scientific advisory committee to assist in the work specified in Component 3; and
Activity 1.5  Support a lead agency for each participating country and a senior official to assume
leadership of project activities and represent the participating country in meetings of the
Project Steering Committee (PSC).
Component 2 - World Bank:
Enhanced regional policy initiatives and institutional mechanisms to address transboundary issues
(US$ 1.1 million)
Activity 2.1  Review current functions and responsibilities of the LCBC;
Activity 2.2  Identify national actors in water resource and related land and environmental policy
implementation;
- 82 -



Activity 2.3  Coordinate activities with other related GEF projects;
Activity 2.4  Define and promote the integration of transboundary water and environmental policies
into the National Development Plans;
Activity 2.5  Assess relevant legal frameworks in each country; and
Activity 2.6  Establish regional structural arrangements for participating countries to review,
harmonize and coordinate frameworks, regulations and approaches to ensure improved
management of transboundary resources.
Component 3 - UNDP:
Strengthened engagement of stakeholders (US$ 1.2 million)
Activity 3.1  Create and provide resources for a steering committee for the engagement of
stakeholders and key user groups at all levels;
Activity 3.2  Formulate, plan and execute 15 stakeholder group exercises (3 in each participating
country);
Activity 3.3  Support for 15 final workshop reports including recommendations for pilot projects in
the SAP implementation phase of the GEF project;
Activity 3.4  Support for preparation of a final report, including recommendations, to assist
governments and the LCBC to begin implementation of key results from the user group
exercises; and
Activity 3.5  Develop a regionally based methodology and mechanism for stakeholder participation at
all levels including provision for environmental impact studies.
Component 4 - UNDP:
A completed TDA and a synthetic framework for concerted management of the basin (US$2.1 million)
Activity 4.1  Compile existing scientific, hydro-environmental and socio-economic data and
information (including groundwater, aquatic ecosystems and water consumption).
Prepare a descriptive basin framework and establish key processes and hot-spots. Data
and descriptive models to be hosted by the LCBC;
Activity 4.2  Undertake a gap analysis of existing data to define a basin-wide monitoring network;
Activity 4.3  Support for the development of key water resource measures (e.g. the hydrostratigraphy
in the Chad Formation, updating of rating curves of existing hydrological stations to
determine low flow and flood conditions and specific water quality measurements) in
order to refine the lake and sub-basin water balances and complete the TDA;
Activity 4.4  Establish key environmental indicators in the Lake Chad basin to verify compliance with
existing and future management plans and, ultimately, to assist in evaluating SAP
implementation;
Activity 4.5  Develop risk analysis capability within the participating countries with the objective of,
among other things, assessing regional-level hydro-environmental risk and identification
of risk-management systems and approaches; and
Activity 4.6  Assemble a basin-wide synthetic framework for surface/groundwater interaction within
the Lake Chad basin to pre-identify long term consequences of development
altematives.
Component 5 - UNDP and World Bank:
Creation of regional programs and initiation of demonstration projects (US$2.5 million)
Activity 5.1  Develop and begin implementation of a regional program to improve existing and define
new protected areas, including the creation of corridors to link existing and new
protected areas (UNDP);
Activity 5.2  Lake Fitri pilot project (World Bank);
- 83 -



Activity 5.3  Develop a regional program aimed at reducing growing water demand with an emphasis
on identified hot-spots identified in the LCB Strategic Plan (UNDP);
Activity 5.4  Support development of a regional mechanism to create and implement a regional
program to anticipate future pollution threats, including those that may derive from
increased oil exploration, drilling, production and transport, and build capacity to
prevent their occurrence (UNDP);
Activity 5.5(a) Komadougou-Yobe pilot project (World Bank);
Activity 5.5(b) Chari-Logone pilot project (World Bank); and
Activity 5.6  Lessons learned from pilots projects as input into the SAP process (World Bank).
Component 6 - World Bank
Strategic Action Plan endorsed with donor support (US$ 0.36 million)
Activity 6.1  Develop and implement a plan for continuing donor contact;
Activity 6.2  Plan and implement 2 donor conferences, one shortly after GEF project approval and one
immediately prior to SAP implementation;
Activity 6.3  Present the TDA and the SAP to the Interministerial Coordinating Committees and the
LCBC; and formalize a regional agreement on the SAP; and
Activity 6.4  Develop of donor conference reports and prepare a strategy for ongoing project funds.
The perfornance indicators for the World Bank components are summarized in Annex 1.
B.     Project Management and Administration
LCBC and UNOPS. A major objective of this project is to build capacity within the LCBC. The LCBC
will be involved in certain specific elements of project execution, with regard to, among other elements,
the pilot demonstration activities described in this project document. The exact modalities of LCBC's
project execution role will be determined during the early stages of full project implementation and will
be the subject of a Memorandum of Agreement between the United Nations Office for Project Services
(UNOPS) and the LCBC. UNOPS will executive the UNDP components as it is experienced in
successfully managing UNDP-GEF international waters projects, and ensuring that a PMU has the
support it needs to adhere to standard UNDP practice with regard to, among other things, the hiring of
personnel, the transport of personnel to duty stations, recruitment processes, contracting, equipment
purchase and disposition rules and regulations, and the coordination of monitoring and evaluation
functions. UNOPS itself is a project management entity, and as such does not involve itself in the
execution of substantive project activities, and will work through the Project Steering Committee to
involve other executing partners for specific project activities based on their comparative advantage.
Project Steering Committee. The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be chaired by the Executive
Secretary of the LCBC, with one member designated from each of the each of the LCBC member states,
and two LCBC staff members. Additionally, the PSC will be comprise a representatives of the two GEF
IA, one member from UNOPS, and the Project Manager, who shall serve as an ex-officio member. Other
members may be added to the PSC at its discretion at any time.
Project Management Unit. The PMU will provide a coordination and management structure for the
development and implementation of the UNDP-GEF Lake Chad Basin project in accordance with the
rules and procedures of GEF-UNDP and based on the general guidance provided by the PSC. The PMU
will be comprise a Project Manager, Director of Administration and Finance, and other staff as will be
determined by the Project Manager.  The Project Manager shall be responsible for the overall
coordination of the project, and will liaise directly with designated officials of the participating countries,
- 84-



the lAs, the executing agency, UNDP and World Bank country offices, existing and potential additional
project donors, National Focal Points, and others as seen necessary by the PSC or by the Project
Manager. The budget and associated work plan will provide guidance on the day-to-day implementation
of the approved project document and on the integration of the various donor funded parallel initiatives.
The Project Manager will be responsible for delivery of all substantive, managerial and financial reports
from and on behalf of the project. They will provide overall supervision for all GEF staff in the PMU.
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committees. Each of the participating countries shall convene an
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Commnittee (IMCC). The LCBC will assist the countries in this activity.
Each IMCC will function to coordinate country level activities necessary to the formulation of the TDA
and the SAP. As part of country specific TDA activities, each country will formulate and prioritize its
project related, country specific activities on a sector by sector basis. Further, working with and through
the project TDA formulation process, they will deternine, in priority sequence, the transboundary issues
that confront the Lake Chad Basin as a whole. Each participating country shall, with the assistance of the
LCBC, name a Lead Country Official who will chair the IMCC. Provision has been made for staff
assistance to each of the designated country chairs. Limited financial provision has also been made for
meetings of each country IMCC.
C.     I)NDP managed project components
Component 1 Project Mechanisms: An established program management unit (PMU) and nominated
lead agencies to drive and co-ordinate TDA completion, pilot projects, policy initiatives
and institutional linkages
Introduction. There is a need for a core co-ordinating unit that must work closely with the LCBC, the
institution designated by the countries as the responsible entity for projects of a regional nature. This
mechanism will be created in consultation with the respective GEF country focal points, the LCBC,
UNDP Resident Representatives, and government officials as necessary. In addition to this basic project
need, it is intended that activities of the project be made complementary with activities of related, other
GEF projects in West Africa. Most notably these include the UNDP-Bank GEF project in the Niger
River Basin and the Bank-UNDP GEF Project in the Senegal River Basin.
Activities. The activities are:
Activity 1.1  Recruit the Project Manager, public participation and communications expertise, and
requisite technical, administrative and secretarial support;
Activity 1.2  Create and organise the PMU to facilitate and co-ordinate the work program of the
project;
Activity 1.3  Create and make provision for the conduct of meetings of the Co-implementation Project
Task Force;
Activity 1.4  Promote, in co-operation with the participating countries and through the LCBC, country
specific Inter-ministerial, and local co-ordinating committees, as necessary, and a
scientific advisory committee to assist in the work specified in Activity 1.6 and Output 3;
and
Activity 1.5  Support a lead agency for each participating country and a senior official to assume
leadership of project activities and represent the participating country in meetings of the
Project Steering Committee (PSC).
- 85 -



Component 3 Strengthened engagement of stakeholders
Introduction. Strategies and discrete actions that can protect and lead to the effective management of the
Lake Chad basin aquatic ecosystems must be undertaken at the local level where the greatest capacity for
adaptability resides. While all affected interests will have access to project participation activities,
special attention will be given to affected local populations that rely on the resources of the Basin for
their sustenance, and have shown an ability to adapt to rapidly changing natural and human-induced
changes in the natural system. Provision will thus be made to ensure that people living within the basin
are given full opportunity to participate in project definition and project implementation. Local level
participation, including NGOs and, to the extent practicable the private sector, will be actively promoted
during the project as their participation is deemed as essential to project success. Involvement of the
private sector would become especially important as a means of assessing the enviromnental implications
of an oil field exploitation and a pipeline that is planned to transect an environmentally sensitive area of
the Lake Chad Basin in Cameroon and Chad.
Within the framework defined for each sub-basin, and in collaboration with existing basin
sub-commissions and other support mechanisms, local authorities and populations can undertake local
sustainable development initiatives, in effect developing local Agenda 21s. The results of these locally
driven exercises would include project specific suggestions that would be reviewed by the Basin
Committee for Strategic Planning (BCSP), an entity that has already been created through the LCBC to
assist in the creation of the local planning initiatives. The BCSP would select, based on the principles of
sustainability, replicability, and "scale-ability", the most promising project suggestions and existing,
sustainable local practices for funding as pilot demonstrations in the SAP implementation phase of the
project, and as necessary continue to function beyond the life of the GEF project.
Activities. The activities are:
Activity 3.1  Create and provide resources for a steering committee for the engagement of
stakeholders and key user groups at all levels;
Activity 3.2  Formulate, plan and execute 15 stakeholder group exercises (3 in each participating
country);
Activity 3.3  Support for 15 final workshop reports including recommendations for pilot projects in
the SAP implementation phase of the GEF project;
Activity 3.4  Support for preparation of a final report, including recommendations, to assist
govemments and the LCBC to begin implementation of key results from the user group
exercises; and
Activity 3.5  Develop a regionally based methodology and mechanism for stakeholder participation at
all levels including provision for environmental impact studies.
Component 4 A completed TDA and a synthetic framework for concerted management of the basin
Introduction. An adaptive and anticipatory capability requires good information. Previous efforts, such
as the Diagnostic Analysis, the Master Plan and the PDF-B project, have generated substantial
information on many of the issues confronting the participating countries. The TDA will need to
determine the precise linkages between environmental and socio-economic systems and their
transboundary impacts. It is expected that the finalised TDA will refine the priorities identified in
previous studies and consultations. It is expected that these will include the definition of threats to the
overall basin and lake balance, the social and related environmental transboundary nature of population
movements, cross-border fisheries issues, navigation and trade, and the transboundary aspects of
- 86 -



inter-community dependence emanating from the activities within the basin. The TDA will build upon
work undertaken during the PDF-B project. In particular, work undertaken by the participating countries
during the PDF-B project concluded that the means for accurate and monitoring of resource flows and
uses do not exist. This seriously impedes the reconciliation of existing and emerging disputes. Specific
hydro-environmental data is lacking and a broad range of relevant scientific studies in the region have not
been synthesised into a working basin-wide framework. In addition, there is little monitoring of
industrial discharges. Data analysis at the national level, to the extent that data is available and has been
analysed, is not effectively disseminated among the relevant institutions at national and international
levels. Even where raw data is available, the mechanisms for national and international analysis are
absent. Therefore a long term objective of the countries and the LCBC is the establishment of a
sustainable, functional, basin-wide meteorological, hydrological and hydrogeological network. GEF
funding can only be used to support the completion of the transboundary (international) analysis. To the
extent possible key measurements will be taken over the first three years of the project to establish an
international datum for the LCB. Work will then be undertaken to identify sustainable financing
mechanisms for a Lake Chad basin monitoring system.
Unless the essential character of the LCB groundwater resources are known, anticipatory planning and
adaptive capability will not be possible. It is clear that some aquifers systems of the basin are already
under pressure and that.groundwater in general will become increasingly critical for the provision of
potable water supplies and water for crop and livestock maintenance. As indicated, a clear regional
hydrogeological overview is not available and specific knowledge about the groundwater resources will
need to be sharpened. Without more detailed knowledge of such issues as surface-groundwater
interactions and the identification of hot-spots, planning for the sustainable use of the key aquifers is
impossible. Activity 4.3 will fill specific gaps on groundwater knowledge and other hydraulic issues in
the basin as a basis for management decisions. Activity 4.3 will also complement work in the
Chari-Logone aquifer that is being funded by BMZ and executed by UNESCO. The recently closed
BMZ project and GEF commnitment will be used by the PMU, the participating countries and the LCBC
to leverage other donors to undertake detailed groundwater assessments.
Activities. The activities are:
Activity 4.1  Compile existing scientific, hydro-environmental and socio-economic data and
information (including groundwater, aquatic ecosystems and water consumption).
Prepare a descriptive basin framework and establish key processes and hot-spots. Data
and descriptive models to be hosted by the LCBC;
Activity 4.2  Undertake a gap analysis of existing data to define a basin-wide monitoring network;
Activity 4.3  Support for the development of key water resource measures (e.g. the hydrostratigraphy
in the Chad Formation, updating of rating curves of existing hydrological stations to
determine low flow and flood conditions and specific water quality measurements) in
order to refine the Lake and sub-basin water balances and complete the TDA;
Activity 4.4  Establish key environmental indicators in the Lake Chad basin to verify compliance with
existing and future management plans and, ultimately, to assist in evaluating SAP
implementation;
Activity 4.5  Develop risk analysis capability within the participating countries with the objective of,
among other things, assessing regional-level hydro-environmental risk and identification
of risk-management systems and approaches; and
Activity 4.6  Assemble a basin-wide synthetic framework for surface-groundwater interaction within
the Lake Chad basin to pre-identify long term consequences of development alternatives.
- 87 -



Component 5 Creation of Regional Programs and initiation of demonstration projects to test and
validate methodologies, secure stakeholder involvement and develop implementation modalities.
Introduction.  The regional initiative and supporting mechanisms require implementation through
national, regional and local level mechanisms. These are mechanisms over which a regional initiative
has no jurisdiction. However, a pre-condition to the implementation of the strategic action program is
that SAP interventions can be executed at national and local levels. Notwithstanding the commitment
made during the project PDF-B, in which countries reached high level agreement on priority actions that
need to be urgently addressed, the precise mode in each sub-basin needs to be determined and tested with
local and national actors and explicitly linked to the regional initiatives through an integrated basin
approach in order address the priority transboundary concems. Therefore specific demonstration projects
will be articulated at the end of the first year of the project on the basis of the TDA findings. These will
build on the existing development and environment initiatives and will be designed to add global value to
these interventions by addressing transboundary priorities. This initiative is anticipated in the priorities
identified in the LCBC Master Plan and also in work undertaken during the PDF-B, the articulation of
the LCB Strategic Plan and the subsequent agreements reached by the LCBC Council of Ministers. It
will focus on new institutional mechanisms to link local, national and regional planning initiatives. In
addition, an additional PDF-B support to be executed by the World Bank will aim to pre-identify suitable
mechanisms and targets at regional national and local level. Taking into account the findings and results
of the synthetic framework (Activity 4.6), the country-identified priorities requiring immediate
implementation will result in the following activities, each of which will have provision for stakeholder
participation:
Activities. The activities are:
Activity 5.1  Develop and begin implementation of a regional program to improve existing and define
new protected areas, including the creation of corridors to link existing and new
protected areas;
Activity 5.3  Develop a regional program aimed at reducing growing water demand with an emphasis
on identified hot-spots identified in the LCB Strategic Plan; and
Activity 5.4  Support development of a regional mechanism to create and implement a regional
program to anticipate future pollution threats, including those that may derive from
increased oil exploration, drilling, production and transport, and build capacity to
prevent their occurrence
D.     World Bank managed project components
See Annex 2
- 88 -



Additional Annex 12
Environmental Management Plan Overview
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) consists of a set of mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation and operation to eliminate adverse environmental impacts of
the LCBC project, offset them or reduce them to acceptable levels. This plan also includes the actions
needed to implement these measures. The EMP (a) identifies the set of responses to potentially adverse
impacts; (b) determines requirements for ensuring that those responses are made effectively and in a
timely manner, and (c) describes the means for meeting those requirements.
The EMP only addresses the biophysical impacts of the proposed project e.g. deforestation. The
mitigation plans in relation to social impacts e.g. loss of access to resource and/or displacement of
populations are addressed in the Process Framework and Resettlement Framework respectively.
The chart below gives the proposed set of mitigated activities with funding in place for each
demonstration pilot in the project - there are detailed plans available upon request through the InfoShop,
the Lake Chad Basin Commission, the LCBC member states, the World Bank and UNDP. These detailed
plans give more information, specifically, on Performance Indicators, Monitoring, and Capacity
Development and Training, please refer to the Environmental Management Plan in full.
Chari-Logone Pilot Activity and Impacts: (i) rehabilitation/creation of a wildlife pond in Waza
National Park. Impact - overgrazing and degradation of habitat.(ii) cleaning/enlarging of a channel
connecting two streams on the floodplain. Impact - possible resettlement impact, however minor.
Activities                                                     Total US$
Spread water points over greater area / limit grazing pressure / increase  $2,000
amount of browse material
Maintain an area of upland forest with no water points, as an example of  $1,500
unmodified habitat.                                             (monitoring)
Prepare a resettlement plan of families having to move from channel  $4,000
clearing area
TOTAL                                                          $7,500
The Komadougou-Yobe pilot will include clearing blockages on floodplain channels to facilitate flow to
floodplains, reducing water consumption and developing systems of negotiated access to conumon
property resources to reduce land/water resource use in the wetlands. This pilot project is a continuation
of the existing Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project (HNWCP), which has been working in
northern Nigeria since 1987. To date, the project has carried out research on land use, fisheries, grazing
pressure, hydrology and bird habitats.
Activities                                                     Total US$
Monitor unknown effects of blockages on floodplain channels to facilitate  No additional
flows to downstream locations and floodplains.                 cost to
Komadougou
Yobe - M&E
system in
place
-89 -



Stakeholder identification and approval for water allocation for water  $6,000
planning. Promote upgrading of existing water management plan for the
basin, including catering for rainy season releases
Establish a process of participatory project design and conflict resolution.
Identify and document all stakeholders who have traditional tenure or use
rights over area. Negotiate specific mitigating measures with all parties.
Coordinate with DFID.
Identify wetlands for conservation in consultation with local population.
Compensate population on resource foregone (e.g. fisheries). Supply other
source of wetland resource from sustainable source e.g. firewood, reeds,
thatch
Study the impacts of conservation of threatened cultivars in situ and ex  $5,000
situ e.g. accidental escapes of cultivars into non-native territory
Ensure establishment or re-establishment of fisheries management system
based on biology and ecology of fisheries resource, especially if sound
traditional systems exist.
Study potentially negative impacts of redesign for an efficient water intake $5,000
structure for Kano Water Supply
TOTAL                                                          $16,000
The Lake Chad Shorelines and Niger-Chad Northern Diagnostic Basin Pilot projects will produce a
management plan and monitoring scheme for Lake Chad and its shores according to RAMSAR
guidelines. The project area is defined as the shoreline of Lake Chad and the lake itself, although this
varies widely (3,000 km2 to 25,000 km2). The hydrology of the lake is unique and not fully understood.
The southern part of the lake is more like a delta than a conventional lake. The "northern pool" is like a
shallow lake, but it only fills from overflow from the southern pool. This did not happen during the
1980s and most of the 1990s, and the northern pool remained dry, although it received waters again in the
past few years. About 120 species of fish have been recorded in the lake. The importance of the lake
and its wetlands for migratory birds makes it a site of global biodiversity importance. Cropping on the
lakebed and recession agriculture have become important in the recent decades of drought. There are no
traditional tenure systems for this and conflicts are common. Large numbers of livestock use the lakebed
and the wetland margins in the dry seasons - conflicts are also common between herders and farmers.
In July 2000, the LCBC declared the entirety of Lake Chad a "Transboundary RAMSAR site of
International Importance", however, as yet none of the countries have designated any specific sites
around the lake as Ramsar sites.
The Northern Diagnostic Basin project proposes to work in the areas of sand dune fixation, range
management, water point development and agricultural improvements on upland, rain fed sites. This
pilot project will address land/resource degradation and desertification in the area to the north and east of
Lake Chad in Niger and Chad. This area is the largest "drainage" area in the basin. However, there is
virtually no surface flow from this area into the lake. Moving sands and recent "ergs" cover the majority
of the area. Wind erosion is a normal phenomenon, and is exacerbated by poor land use practices.
Overgrazing and cultivation have resulted in the loss of the vegetation that held the dunes in place. The
activities that have direct and significant environmental and/or social impacts are dune stabilization and
range management with associated water point development. Range management would involve radical
changes to access to range resources - this could potentially affect indigenous transhumant pastoral
groups. The project should be guided by OP/BP 4.12 on the need for participatory processes in drawing
up the plans for managing access rights. This specifically includes the need to take account of the needs
- 90 -



of vulnerable groups and especially those below the poverty line, the landless, the elderly, women and
children, indigenous peoples and ethnic minorities.
Under sand dune fixation, dunes that pose immediate threats to important infrastructure or valuable lands
will be selected. They will be fixed using a combination of physical and biological techniques. The
physical techniques will require large amounts of plant materials to construct a checkerboard-like pattern
of fences or barriers across the dunes to be stabilized. These structures are intended to minimize sand
movement long enough for biological controls to be put in place. The biological dune fixation measures
consist of planting perennial trees and shrubs. If the areas treated are very small, then the impacts will be
relatively insignificant. If the project addresses the fundamental reasons that cause stable dunes to
become live, the impacts could be very significant.
Activities with potential impacts and their mitigation measures: (i) designation of Ramsar sites; Impact -
depends of implication of 'wise-use', disillusionment if no follow-up action; (ii) management planning
exercises for communities around Lake Chad; (iii) development and implementation of community-based
natural resource-use action plans. Impact - restricted access for some, disillusionment.
Activities                                                      Total US$
Determine what actions to be funded                             Within
project scope
- $0
$0
Designate sites and develop management plan
Be clear about possibilities of project. Make no false promises.
TOTAL                                                           $0
As dune stabilization is the primary activity, a list of numerous potential (negative) impacts follows: site
degradation, invasive species introduction, restrictions on agriculture, prohibitions on open-access
grazing, degradation of stabilized areas after project close, increased evapotranspiration, change in access
rights to range resource, some transhumant groups omitted from planning process, risk of conflict due to
change in access rights, risks to disadvantaged groups due to increased management of resource under
new range management regime.
Activities                                                      Total US$
Import plant material from sites where their harvest is sustainable. Study  $5,000
use of alternative plant materials.
Study and propose alternative, native species if they exist, if necessary
Study species that do not increase evapotranspiration. Do not vegetate
areas that were not "naturally" vegetated before they were degraded
Put institutions, incentives or systems in place for managing or protecting  $8,000
the dunes after stabilization. Create "water point user associations" to
generate revenue.
Increase awareness of necessity of prohibition. Suggest other livestock
rearing methods e.g. tethered, fenced. Provide other sources of fodder.
Increase awareness of necessity of restriction. Offer compensation on a
per hectare basis. Launch alternative income activities.
Ensure that transhumant populations are consulted.              $0
91-



Increase awareness and educate on need to change access rights. Ensure
equitable redistribution of resource, in consultation with inhabitants.
Increase awareness and educate on need to change access rights. Supply
alternatives e.g. corrals, fences, alternative sources of fodder during new
range management
Changes in access rights must be negotiated using participatory planning,
stakeholder involvement and include minority and disadvantaged groups.
Educate and increase awareness on need to change access rights. Use
successful examples e.g. the Pilot Pastoral Project (PPP). Institute
"rangeland user associations" and charge fees for use.
TOTAL                                                            $13,000
The activities of the Lake Fitri pilot are to support implementation of a management plan, including
execution of a microcredit program. Two main groups use the lake: sedentary Bilala farming
communities and transhumant Arab pastoralists. Clearly there are already issues of access rights and
conflicts between pastoralists and sedentary farmers and between different groups of pastoralists. The
project proposes to develop management plans at various scales that will involve negotiation between
different user groups, and advocacy to maintain the rights of minority groups. The activities and
potential impacts are (i) small-scale development activities, Impact - introduction of exotic species into
the project area; (ii) small-scale conservation inputs, as yet unidentified. Impact - unknown, risk of
inhabitants of region becoming disillusioned if no action is taken.
Activities                                          Total US$
Use of native species                               Within project scope - $2000
for native species monitoring
$0
Determine activities
Be clear about possibilities of project. Make no false
promises.
TOTAL                                              $4,000
The Chari Basin pilot proposes a participatory planning approach to develop strategic and sustainable
actions designed to reverse current resources degradation. Impacts will be beneficial, although a
potential negative impact will be that people will eventually become disillusioned and uncooperative if
nothing positive for them comes out of the process.
Activities                                                       Total US$
Be clear about possibilities of project. Make no false promises.  $0
TOTAL                                                            $0
- 92 -



Additional Annex 13
Dam Safety Plan
AFRICA: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem
Although the project does not plan to construct dams, the safety of dams (OP 4.37) does enter into the
project because the project will rely on the performance of existing dams, and failure of dams upstream
to project activities and structures is relevant. Bank procedure therefore requires that independent dam
safety specialists inspect and evaluate the safety status of the existing dams, review and evaluate the
owner's operation and maintenance procedures and provide a written report of findings. Reviews for the
three dams involved in the project (Maga, Tiga and Challawa) were completed by an international dam
safety expert recruited by the Banlc
Maga Dam, Cameroon: part of Waza-Logone pilot project (Component total US$475,000)
It was strongly speculated in the Environmental and Social Assessment that the Maga Dam is not a safe
structure, however the recent report of a dam specialist seems to indicate otherwise. There is no direct
risk of failure of Maga dam, which is a 30 km long earthen structure. However, the dam is threatened by
erosion, wave action, overtopping and seepage. If the dam fails, several thousand people are at
immediate risk to their lives, and approximately 20,000 are at risk of being flooded.
There is a need to implement management activities to make the operation of the dam safe. These
activities would proceed as follows:
1.     Lowering of Reservoir Level as a short-term, non-structural measure, which can minimize
overtopping by floods while measures are studies to implement longer-term, structural measures. This
also has a cost in terms of reduced water availability in storage system.
2.     An Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP), which is the only mitigating factor which should be
executed immediately. This would entail a dam-break analysis, flood propagation study, population
awareness, and training. The formal EPP would be summarized in a report describing how to react in the
case of mis-functioning of the dam, the chain of actions and parties to be notified. The EPP task would
include an experienced consultant, together with a good NGO for community training. Cost estimate:
US$100-200,000, unfinanced.
3.     An Engineering Modification to the Left Abutment Spillway: A pre-feasibility study of such
intervention should result in a cost estimate and suggest an implementation plan. The cost of the study,
excluding site investigations, should they be required, would be in the order US$200-300,000,
unfmanced.
The project should provide regular reports on the process of resolving the issues of safety and water
release from Maga dam if the Bank chooses to proceed. The plan should also be updated in accordance
with a management plan to be implemented. The engineering modification should be developed as a
project to be proposed to the Donors Conference within the Component 6 of the project.
Tiga Dam, Nigeria: part of the Komadougou-Yobe pilot project (Component total US$475,000)
At Tiga the main threats are, in decreasing order of probability: internal erosion due to arching of fill
material over cut off trench, internal erosion caused by a fracture of one of the two secondary outlet
pipes, and slope failure under seismic load. Probability of failure is considered high for this 8 km zoned
earthfill embankment. The main threat is from "piping" (water creating channels through the dam). The
number of people at risk at Tiga is in the tens of thousands.
There is a need to implement management activities to make the operation of the dam safe. These
activities are recommended (not step-wise) as follows:
- 93 -



1.     Lowering of Reservoir Level as a short-term, non-structural measure, which can minimize
overtopping by floods while measures are studies to implement longer-term, structural measures. This
also has a cost in terms of reduced water availability in storage system.
2.     Improved Monitoring: The performance of the dams are already being monitored but the
extent of the monitoring at Tiga should be inproved. Increased seepage is the best indicator of
impending piping failure, so it is recommended that the seepage measurement and monitoring system
should be improved, extended and automated. An accurate level survey should be carried out along the
dam crest and downstream shoulder at least once a year at the end of the dry season. Elements for
improved monitoring are (a) upgrading instrumentation system (if necessary); training local staff; local
staff for surveillance and quality control; independent review on annual basis initially. Essential records
that should be kept are: (i) daily readings of reservoir; (ii) weekly readings of seepage flows; (iii)
monthly readings of piezometers and wells; (iv) annual level survey of the dam crest. Most importantly,
vulnerable areas: the downstream toe, especially in the vicinity of the outlets, should be inspected weekly
throughout the year by the maintenance staff and twice yearly by qualified dam engineers. An annual
report should be compiled describing the performance of each dam should be prepared. These reports
should detail instrument readings and their analysis. Cost estimate: To be determined.
3.     Early Warning System: The warning would comprise sirens in communities immediately
downstream and radio or telephone links to the civil authorities elsewhere in the area of inundation. This
area should be determined from a dam break analysis if this has not already been carried out. The
Hadejia-Jamaare River Basin Development Authority (HJRBDA) should cooperate to the fullest extent
with the civil authorities in the preparation of an action plan. Cost estimate: To be determined.
4.     An Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP), which is the only mitigating factor which should be
executed immediately. This would entail a dam-break analysis, flood propagation study, population
awareness, and training. The formal EPP would be summarized in a report describing how to react in the
case of mis-functioning of the dam, the chain of actions and parties to be notified. The EPP task would
include an experienced consultant, together with a good NGO for community training. Cost estimate:
US$100-200,000, unfmanced.
5.     Reduction of the full storage level by additional excavations of the emergency spillway of the
left banlc This has a cost in terms of reduced water storage. A pre-feasibility study of such intervention
should result in a cost estimate and suggest an implementation plan. The cost of the study, excluding site
investigations, should they be required, would be in the order US$ 100-300,000, unfinanced.
Challawa Gorge, Nigeria: part of the Komadougou-Yobe pilot project (Component total $475,000)
At Challawa the probability of failure is considered several orders of magnitude lower than Tiga; no
specific dangers are identified. The dam is a new 6 km zoned earthfill embankment. An emergency
preparedness plan should be put in place as soon as possible. The number of people at risk of dam
failure is in the tens of thousands, however there is no sign of risk. There is a recommendation to put in
non-structural measures as listed above in the case of Tiga Dam as a matter of public safety.
Overall Assessment, Lake Chad Basin Dam Safety Risk and Management Plan:
The reports concerning the three dams show that the danger of dam bursts is not immediate and that
therefore it will not be necessary to prepare resettlement plans as a requirement for proceeding with
project preparation. The report does however give recommendations that non-structural measures as well
as management actions (e.g. lowering water level in the dam to reduce risk of overflow/failure) be carried
out. Because these management actions are not yet financed, it is imperative that the management
authorities for each dam, the relevant LCBC pilot project, the LCBC member state, and the LCBC
Project Steering Committee work together to draw from these initial recommendations, as put forward in
the dam safety report, and show progress in addressing the risks identified in the Maga and Tiga Dam
sites. The project will expect twice yearly progress reports as part of the overall project review cycle.
- 94 -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 32047
o ez          10            12'            14'            16-            18:            20            22           24'
GREATER LAKE CHAD                                         NIGER                                  16j
CONVENTIONAL BASIN              -16i                                                                                                                                    16'
0Termit Sud
LEVELS OP LAKE CHAD                          A
1963
-  1973                                                                   !   oROke chrid shoSh i
20J01                                                              Ngim           rcPilot Site;/                                                
HYDROLOGICAL BASIN                                  Lake Ch1d Shoreline                                                         A                               14 1A-
1994 CONVENTION BASIN   -e-Nru
O     PILOT PROJECT SITE Sis                                                                                     Ati
PROTECTED AREAS AND NATIONAL PARKS  -,
*    RAMPSAR SITER                    ._ k.f Leko bisti -S                                                                                              U      A    N
A BIOSPHERE RESERVES                                                  20   e1L
NATIONAL PARKS                                                                                   Lake Fri Fitri
WETLAND AREAS                                                                         N'DJAMENA                                                                 12-
R SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                               D.-t-  Scmbisso   Ko             Chodio
NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                             W                                     aom                        . .d
fMAIN RIVERS                                                                /                                     Notional Pora
INTERNATIONAL OUNINDARIES
A                                                   /                            ./.AV..'t ONdBI&I Mond>;
LGN IGE                                                  I AR
| .  !   . ;  4        ,    <     a ,;; ; ,>              >      3iL            g         8        8        t/          4       '         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ' 1 
N~~~~~CA I                                                                                                                                      S  TE 1R 15  S SORSo,'ueler 8,i $'@; J A   X t 
DUD NI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ dl
j         ,> ~~~~~~~Area af maps  i i                      <\r3ak -,                                             J   Nti   ak    y   A      4
L                                 |_i,/                                                ;-                                                    
pNi9  IA  '"7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  I  /   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~7 7~~~~~~~~~a k ;I~LI                    -1  1   6
AUGUST 2002



eriv Nolv.:       23845 AFR
Type:    PAD



