Report No. 23986
Report No: I070252 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/08/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AFRICA Project ID: P070252
Project: Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad
Basin Ecosystem          Task Team Leader: Tracy Hart
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 2, 2002         IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 30, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFTU2     Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The long-term development objective of the Lake Chad Basin Global
Environment Facility (GEF) intervention (Phases 1 and 2) is to achieve
global environmental benefits through an integrated management system for
Lake Chad and its linked land and water resources. This project in the
Lake Chad Basin (Phase 1) has for a development objective: to build
capacity within the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) and its national
committees so that it can better achieve its mandate of managing land and
water resources in the greater conventional basin of Lake Chad.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project has six components, two of which are Bank components, two of
which are UNDP components and one of which is shared:
(UNDP) Project mechanisms - an established Program Management Unit (PMU)
and nominated lead agencies to drive and coordinate policy initiatives,
institutional linkages, TDA completion, and pilot projects;
(WB) Enhanced regional policy initiatives and institutional mechanisms to
address transboundary issues;
(UNDP) Strengthened engagement of stakeholders;
(UNDP) A completed TDA and a synthetic framework for concerted management
of the basin;
(UNDP/WB) Demonstration projects to test and validate methodologies,
stakeholder involvement and implementation modalities; and
(WB) SAP designed and endorsed with implementation methodologies validated
and donor support mobilized.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Project Area
The Lake Chad Basin GEF project includes six member countries: Cameroon,



Central African Republic, Chad, Niger, Nigeria and Sudan.
I.A.4.1. The Waza-Logone Floodplain
The full title of this proposed pilot project is "Pilot Project on the
Rehabilitation and Integrated Management of the Hydrological and
Ecological Resources of the Waza-Logone Floodplain". The project area
covers around 8,000 kmy, or roughly half the active Waza-Logone
floodplain. The project area includes both the Waza National Park (though
most of the national park is outside the floodplain) and the Kalamaloue
National Park. The floodplains are highly productive, providing breeding
grounds for fish, dry season pastures that support cattle, and fertile
land for arable crops and forestry products. Over 100,000 people rely on
the floodplain's resources for all or part of their livelihoods.
The area inundated in any year depends on over-bank flow from the Logone
river, flow from seasonal streams called "Mayos" flowing out of adjacent
upland areas, direct rainfall onto the floodplain and water released from
the Maga Dam (whose reservoir is itself fed by these same three sources of
water). The Maga Dam was constructed in the upper part of the floodplain
in 1979 to provide water for the Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation
de la Riziculture de Yagoua (SEMRY) irrigated rice scheme. At the same
time, a dike was constructed along the edge of the Logone River extending
20 km downstream from Maga Dam to prevent the irrigated rice fields from
being flooded from over-bank flow from the river. The Maga Dam and
associated dikes altered the natural flood patterns of the Waza-Logone
floodplains by trapping a number of seasonal streams in the upper part of
the floodplain and through the diversion of part of the Logone River's
flow. In particular, it has severely reduced flows in the Mayo Vrick
below the dam.
An IUCN hydrodynamic study of the floodplain reviewed the impacts of the
dam for three scenarios, good years, average years and drought years
evaluated the impacts of this development Etude du ModOle Hydrodynamique
du Logone; Mott MacDonald - Project Waza Logone 1999. The pre-dam
"average year" flooded area was estimated at around 3,385 kmy, and
following dam construction around 2,420 kmy, a decrease of approximately
30 percent. The impact of this change was predominantly in reductions in
flood extent in the top end of the floodplain below the dam.
I.A.4.2. Komadougou-Yobe Integrated Wetlands Management
The Komadougou-Yobe River forms the international boundary between Niger
and Nigeria for the last 150 km before flowing into Lake Chad. The
Komadougou-Yobe basin covers an area of around 150,000 kmy, and is the
only perennial river system flowing in to the northern pool of lake Chad.
The total flow from the system is typically less than one percent of the
total annual surface and rainwater input to the lake. The main flow into
the Komadougou-Yobe river system is from the Hadejia and the Jama'are
tributaries in the wetter upland areas of Kano, Jigawa and Bauchi States
in Nigeria. These two rivers flow into an extensive floodplain, the
Hadejia Jama'are wetlands, referred to in the project document as the
Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands after the two main settlements in the area.
Although described as wetlands, much of the Hadejia-Nguru floodplain is
- 2 -



dry for some or all of the year. It provides a wide range of resources
including fertile agricultural soils, grazing, non-timber forest products,
firewood and fisheries. In addition, the wetlands are a unique migratory
habitat for many wildfowl and wader species from the Northern Hemisphere.
A number of forest reserves are found on the floodplains. However, the
floodplain has come under increasing pressure from drought and upstream
water developments. The maximum extent of flooding has declined from
between 250,000 and 300,000 ha in 1960s and 1970s, to 70,000 to 100,000 ha
more recently. There are also potential issues of water quality, with
some signs of increasing salinity in the Hadejia River.
The key management body responsible for water related development is the
Hadejia Jama'are River Basin Authority. The main long-term threat to the
floodplain is water diversion through large-scale water projects on the
Hadejia and Jama'are Rivers. The largest upstream irrigation scheme at
present is the Kano River Irrigation Project, fed by the Tiga Dam
completed in 1974. Water is also released from this dam to supply Kano
City. The second major irrigation scheme within the river basin, the
Hadejia Valley Project is under construction. The HVP will be supplied by
Challawa Gorge Dam on the Challawa River, upstream of Kano, which was
finished in 1992. Challawa Gorge may also provide water for Kano City.
So far there has been little development on, the Jama'are River with only
one small dam across one of its tributaries. However, plans for a major
dam at Kafin Zaki have been in existence for many years to provide water
for an irrigated area of around 84,000 ha. Work on Kafin Zaki Dam has
been started and then stopped a number of times, most recently in 1994,
and its future is at present unclear.
I.A.4.3.  Niger-Chad Transboundary Desertification Control
The area to the north of Lake Chad (referred to in the Diagnostic Study as
the Northern Diagnostic Basin) is the largest "drainage" area in the
basin. However, there is virtually no surface flow from this area into
the lake, and indeed what little drainage pattern there is, flows away
from the lake. The majority of the area is covered by moving sands and
recent "ergs". Wind erosion is a normal phenomena throughout most of the
area, and the change in rainfall patterns has moved the limits of wind
erosion to the south. However, the problem of erosion is exacerbated by
poor land use practices in the transition zones to the south. Overgrazing
and cultivation on once stable dune structures has resulted in the loss of
the vegetation that held the dunes in place. The changing rainfall
patterns have also increased grazing pressure on the remaining rangeland,
moving the pattern of transhumance southwards.
The project area is found in the extreme southern portion of the Northern
Diagnostic Basin in the area with the highest rainfall and the most stable
ground cover. The project is located in the districts of Diffa, Nguigmi,
and Maine-Soroa in Niger and Bol, Liwa, and Rig-Rig in Chad. Project
interventions during this pilot will be restricted to a radius of 20 km
around these towns.
Niger: The population of Departement of Diffa, is estimated at 210,000
people. East of Diffa there is a major wet season grazing area, with
seasonal ponds providing stock water. Although most of the entire area is
-3 -



ecologically best suited for livestock production, rainfed agriculture
occurs through much of the area.
Chad: The main population centres are Bol and Mao, with a population of
approximately 30,000. The rest of the population are distributed in small
villages around the wadis, or are nomadic/transhumant herders. In this
region, where annual rainfall amounts to less than 300 mm, Lake Chad plays
a key role in the economy. There are three separate hydro-ecological zones:
The continental zone, inland from the Lake, the largely stable dunes of
the Kanem erg, with some irrigated crops.
The intermediate zone, along the Lake shoreline, many of the wadis are
flooded by Lake Chad, either permanently or seasonally, and are used as
polders for irrigation or for recession farming.
The island zone of the Lake. The dominant economic activities here are
livestock and fishing.
I.A.4.4. The Lake Chad Shorelines
The project area is defined as the shoreline of Lake Chad and the lake
body itself. However, given the extremes in the fluctuation in the depth
and extent of the lake (from 1,350 kmy to over 25,000 kmy over the past
several decades), the actual project target area is unclear. As an
example, the southern part of the lake is more like a delta than a
conventional lake. The "northern pool" is more like a conventional, though
shallow, lake, but it only fills from overflow from the southern pool.
During all of the 1980s and most of the 1990s, this never happened and the
northern pool remained dry. It has received waters again in some of the
past few years. Overtime, land that has been dry for decades can become a
shoreline, a wetland or open water.
The hydrology of the lake is quite unique and is not fully understood. 120
species of fish have been recorded in the lake. The importance of the
lake and its wetlands for migratory birds makes it a site of global
biodiversity importance.
Cropping on the lake bed and recessional agricultural have become much
more important in the recent decades of decreased rainfall and lake
levels. There are no traditional tenure systems for this and conflicts are
common. Large numbers of livestock use the lake bed and the wetland
margins in the dry seasons - conflicts are also common between herders and
farmers.
I.A.4.5. Lake Fitri
Lake Fitri is located 300 km north-east of N'Djamena, and like Lake Chad
is a freshwater lake with no outlet. The project area is completely
within Chad and has no direct transboundary component. The annual
rainfall is around 300-400 mm and highly variable. The lake is fed by the
Batha River that provides around 60 percent of the annual inflow, and by
direct rainfall and local run-off. During periods of low rainfall the
lake can dry up, this has happened most recently in 1991, and previously
in 1985 and 1913.
Following a series of waterfowl counts in the mid-1980s, attention was
drawn to the biodiversity value of the lake. In 1987, the lake was
- 4 -



declared a RAMSAR site. IUCN became involved in 1988 and assisted the
Government of Chad in registering Lake Fitri as a "Biosphere Reserve" in
1990. The project document defines the project area as the Biosphere
Reserve of Lake Fitri, which includes rainfed land around the lake giving
a total area of 195,000 ha.
The key global conservation importance is the very high populations of
seasonal migratory birds and afrotropical waterfowl. The lake environment
also supports the endangered Red-fronted gazelle (Gazella rufifrons) and
there are reports of Roan (Hippotragus equinusa) and Tiang (Damaliscus
lunatus) antelopes, as well as Lion, in the wooded area south of the
lake. This area also harbours a small elephant population. There are two
main groups that use the lake and the surrounding areas: sedentary Bilala
farming communities and transhumant Arab pastoralists. The lake and
surrounding areas fall under the traditional authority of the Sultan of
Yao.
Access to resources was traditionally controlled by the Sultan, and there
are some aspects of natural resources management that are still relatively
tightly managed. The most obvious example is fisheries, with the use of
nets banned, a closed season from September to November and permitted
fishhook sizes regulated. Less satisfactorily, the traditional system of
limiting access to the lake and shore grazing for transhumant pastoralists
to a period late in the dry season, has broken down and conflicts have
multiplied. The increase in the area of recessional agriculture in the
dry season has resulted in more conflict between transhumant pastoralists
and sedentary farmers. Recently, there have also been conflicts between
groups of pastoralists over the control of wells - resulting in
significant bloodshed.
I.A.4.6. Upper Chari Basin Transboundary Pilot
The boundary used for planning purposes by the Lake Chad Basin Commission,
described as the "new conventional basin", specifically includes the
upstream components of the Chari-Logone and Komadougou-Yobe river
systems. Lake Chad receives the majority of its water from the Chari
River system and its tributaries, Bahr Aouk, Bamningui, Bangora, Gribizi
and Ouham. The Chari pilot project site is defined loosely as the entire
upper catchment of the Chari River, lying within the Central African
Republic and Chad.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)      Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       Yes
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
- 5-



Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environment
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
Ensures that appropriate levels of environmental and social assessment are
carried out as part of project design. It also deals with the public
consultation process, and ensures that the views project-affected groups
and local NGOs are taken into account. However, this does not guarantee
that the views of minority groups or economically or socially
disadvantaged groups are incorporated into proposals "A review of Bank
experience found that while an increasing number of EAs involved
consultation with NGOs, consultation with local communities was more
limited. Women and the poor were seldom reached..." Update Number 5 -
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook - Public Involvement in Environmental
Assessment: Requirements, Opportunities and Issues. To some extent these
issues are covered under OP 4.20 Indigenous People and OP 4.30 Involuntary
Resettlement.
Given the uncertainty of the potential direct and indirect impacts of the
pilot projects, the Bank requested an EA on all project components. It is
worth noting that OP 4.01 applies to all components of a project with
financing from the World Bank, including co-financed components financed
by the recipient or by other agencies. Footnote 1 of OP 4.01 ""Bank"
includes IDA; "EA" refers to the entire process set out in OP/BP 4.01;
"loans" includes credits; "borrower" includes, for guarantee operations, a
private or public project sponsor receiving from another financial
institution a loan guaranteed by the Bank; and "project" covers all
operations financed by Bank loans... This policy applies to all components
of the project, regardless of the source of financing".
OP 4.04 Natural Habitats
Supports the conservation of natural habitats and the maintenance of
ecological functions. The Bank does not support projects that involve the
significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats. The
objective of the project is to conserve and protect natural habitats. The
only possible negative impacts would come through the introduction of
potentially invasive species, with Prosopis sp. (Mesquite) suggested for
dune stabilisation and possible fuelwood production for fish smoking.
However the species has already been introduced and the proposals are to
selectively manage the systems, which could then promote indigenous
species. The impact must therefore be considered as neutral.
- 6 -



Rural Development
OP 4.37 - Safety of Dams
In view of the major potential impacts of dam failure, the Bank is
concerned with the safety of new dams and existing dams on which a
Bank-financed project is directly dependent. The project is proposing to
"catalyse" increased wet season flood releases from Maga Dam above the
Waza-Logone Floodplain, and also from dams in the upstream part of the
Komadougou-Yobe Basin. As these are significant changes to operating
rules, and there are specific concerns with the structural integrity of
Maga Dam, the Bank will require a complete safety check by qualified dam
engineers.
Social Development
OP 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement
Ensures that the population displaced by a project receives benefits from
it; it also covers those with usufruct or customary rights to the land or
other resources taken for the project World Bank ESSD definition "In some
instances, people may lose the right to use resources without losing
possession of them. Such involuntary loss of access to resources may also
be considered involuntary resettlement". The operational policy is
specifically inclusive, ensuring that all those affected both directly and
indirectly by project developments are compensated as part of the
project. Affected population, include those with income derived from
informal sector and non-farm activities, and from common property
resources. The absence of legal title does not limit rights to
compensation. None of the pilot projects are expected to involve
significant population displacement. However, as stated above, all the
pilot projects are concerned directly or indirectly with managed access to
natural resources, and hence negotiated changes to usufruct rights.
World Bank Safeguard Policies Triggered by Pilot Project Interventions
Waza Logone      Komadougou-Yobe Basin   Niger-Chad Northern
Basin   Lake Chad Shoreline      Lake Fitri       CAR
Chad
Transboundary
4.01 Environmental Assessment    Applies to all pilot projects including co-financed
components.
equires public consultation and dissemination of conclusions
4.04 Natural Habitats    Enhanced or no significant changes
4.30 Involuntary Resettlement (and OP/BP 4.12) Although no one will be displaced
or resettled, most pilots involve management plans, which introduce or
modify natural resource access rights.
4.37 Safety of Dams      Proposals to increase releases from existing dams    Not applicable
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
This is addressed in E&S Assessment, which has been fully disclosed.
There are also two dam safety consultant reports covering Maga Dam in Waza
Logone pilot in Northern Cameroon and Tiga Dam and Challawa Gorge in the
- 7 -



Hadejia-Nguru pilot project area, Northern Nigeria. The reports concerning
the three dams show that the danger of dam bursts is not immediate and
that therefore it will not be necessary to prepare resettlement plans as a
requirement for proceeding with project preparation. The report does
however give recommendations that management actions (e.g. lowering water
level in the dam to reduce risk of overflow / failure) be carried out. It
is imperative that the management authorities for each dam carry out these
recommendations, as put forward in the dam safety report. Furthermore,
emergency evacuation plans should be prepared in addition to other actions
such as installation of formal warning systems which are absent at Tiga
and Challawa Gorge.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
There are no potential negative long-term effects anticipated due to
project intervention. However, there pilot project impacts on individual
and groups within are in the area of the pilots. These impacts, in the
short and medium-term, are addressed and disclosed in the Environmental
Management Plan, Process Framework, and Resettlement Framework, which have
all been disclosed in draft form. Most of the pilot activities operate in
protected areas and will implement some aspect of increased common
management of natural resources, which may have a net negative impact on
individual earnings or benefits from that resource. A Framework for
compensation in implementing this management regime is introduced.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The project will collaborate with several national partners linked to
international NGOs, most specifically on implementation of several, if not
all, of the pilot projects currently being prepared. The international
NGOs and Secretariats with whom we are engaged in an-ongoing discussion
include WWF, Bureau of the RAMSAR Convention, and UNCCD. Their national
partners are Birdlife International, Nigerian Conservation Foundation,
among others. Also, there are local NGOs, including SOCADEV. The GEF has
asked the World Bank and the UNDP, our co-implementing agency on this
project, to engage international NGOs on GEF projects, and this project
has already done so via several avenues: (i) employing consultants to
prepare the pilot projects who have close ties to NGO work in the Lake
Chad region; and (ii) making some Lake Chad project funds available for
NGO travel to accompany World Bank and UNDP staff on mission.
The Executive Secretary of the Lake Chad Basin Commission recently
attended a GEF International Waters Conference in Hungary, and made
several inquiries about launching a public participation program in the
Lake Chad basin area. preparation. The Lake Chad project, through its
preparation of a Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TBA) and Strategic
- 8 -



Action Plan (SAP), has two opportunities to weave public participation
through these processes. IUCN has approached the World Bank and UNDP to
work on a public participation component, but these discussions have been
preliminary, and have not come to fruition in time to develop a
partnership prior to project start.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      12/3/2001        1/7/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/3/2002          3/29/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           3/29/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              3/28/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          3/29/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           3/29/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              3/28/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          3/29/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           3/29/2002
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Tracy Hart      04/04/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
04/04/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
9



Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         04/04/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Letitia A. Obeng         04/04/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 10 -



