Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER  TF052140 CD     
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin 
Ecosystem Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
LAKE CHAD BASIN COMMISSION 
 
Dated April 22,  2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER  TF052140 CD 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and 
LAKE CHAD BASIN COMMISSION, an international body created by the Convention 
referred to in Section 1.02(g) of this Agreement (the Recipient). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
 
(D)  
the countries signatories of the Convention Relating to the Development 
of the Chad Basin executed by the Republics of Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria on 
May 22, 1964, and by the Central African Republic on December 5, 1997, 
 
(the Lake Chad Basin Countries), having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, 
and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF 
Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the 
first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;  
 
(E) 
each of the Lake Chad Basin Countries has addressed a letter to the 
Bank, confirming their commitment to the objectives of the Project and to its 
implementation, and that the GEF funds available for financing the Project may be 
allocated directly to the Recipient, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(F)    
the Recipient intends to contract from various other donors (hereinafter 
referred to as the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$12,170,000 (hereinafter referred to as the Cofinancing) to assist in financing the Project 
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (hereinafter referred to as the 
Cofinancing Agreements) entered into between the Recipient and the Cofinanciers; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank for Currency Pool Loans, dated 
January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (16), 
(17) and (19), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (a) and (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol 
“SDR” mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement”; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and 
 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(k) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
i. 
“Affected Person” means a person who had or would have 
his or her: 
 
 
(i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, or 
interest in or right to use any land, usufruct or customary rights to the land or other 
resources taken for the project
 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right 
in annual or perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
Page  5
-
4
-
residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and “Affected 
Persons” means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person; 
ii. 
“Basin” means the Lake Chad Basin; 
iii. 
“Convention” means the Convention Relating to the 
Development of the Chad Basin, as amended; 
iv. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the 
Environmental Management Plan for the Mitigation of Environmental Impacts of the 
Lake Chad Basin Commission Project, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, 
and institutional measures to eliminate any adverse environmental  impacts, offset them, 
or reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts, including a plan of 
actions dated March 29, 2002, as such plan may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Recipient and the Bank; 
v. 
“Financial Management Report” means each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
vi. 
“Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee” means the 
committee to be established in each of the Lake Chad Basin Countries to determine 
transboundary issues; 
vii. 
“LCBC” means the Lake Chad Basin Commission, 
established by the Convention; 
viii. 
“Process Framework” means the Process Framework for the 
mitigation of social impacts of the Project satisfactory to the Bank, approved by the 
Recipient, dated March 29, 2002; 
ix. 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual to be 
adopted by the Recipient, pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement containing 
detailed arrangements regarding the implementation of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, in consultation with and with the consent of the Bank, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual; 
x. 
“Project Management Unit” means the unit in the Secretariat 
of the Recipient to be maintained in accordance with paragraph 2 in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
xi. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee chaired 
by the Executive Secretary of the Recipient, and consisting of two representatives from 
each of the countries that are members of the LCBC and  two staff of LCBC; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(j) 
“Resettlement Policy” means the Resettlement Policy Framework for the 
mitigation of social impacts of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, approved by the 
Recipient, dated March 29, 2002;  
(k) “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement; and 
(l)  “UNOPS” means the United Nations Office for Project Support. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred thousand United 
States Dollars (US$2,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices and with due regard to ecological 
and biodiversity protection factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall carry out all actions required under the 
Process Framework and the Environmental Management Plan to mitigate and compensate 
for the impacts that have been identified therein in accordance with the time table set 
forth. 
 
(b) The Recipient shall, prior to commencing any demonstration pilot activity 
under Part E of the Project which would displace any Affected Persons or adversely 
affect their standards of living, or their rights, usufructs or customary rights to land or 
other resources under the Project:  
 
(i) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for such demonstration pilot 
activity, a detailed resettlement action plan acceptable to the 
Bank documenting the implementation arrangements for 
resettlement, including compensation, relocation and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons;  
 
(ii) 
undertake the acquisition of all land, rights, usufructs or 
customary rights and other property, compensation therefore and 
resettlement in accordance with the principles and institutional 
procedures established in the Resettlement Policy;   
 
(iii) 
ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled and 
rehabilitated in accordance with the Resettlement Policy;  
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iv) 
appoint a conflict resolution committee; and 
 
(v) 
complete the implementation of such resettlement action plan in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, and financial 
condition of the Recipient and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) The Recipient shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Trust Fund Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
Page  10
-
9
-
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Other Covenants 
 
Section 5.01. The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts 
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
 
(b) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and 
 
(c) 
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
environmental practices. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 6.01.  
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Convention shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to 
carry out the Project. 
 
(b) 
Any of the Lake Chad Basin Commission Countries shall have failed to 
afford a reasonable opportunity for representatives of the Bank to visit any part of their 
territory for purposes related to the Project. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has entered into a Management Services Agreement for 
project execution services, satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
the Recipient has recruited the Project Manager and Director 
Administration and Finance in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the Recipient has adopted the PIM, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
the Recipient has appointed independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01(b) (i) of this Agreement, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.   
 
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VIII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. The Executive Secretary is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 
8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Post Office Box 727 
N’Djamena 
Chad 
 
Facsimile: 
 
235 52 41 37 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
 
 (202) 
477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in N’Djamena, Republic of Chad, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
LAKE CHAD BASIN COMMISSION 
 
By     /s/  Muhammad Sani Adamu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By     /s/ Ali Khadr 
 
Authorized Representative  
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Disbursement 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Categories
Amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant 
Allocated (Expressed in 
US$ Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures to be  
Financed
1.    Works 
 
170,000 
 
90% 
 
2.   Goods, including 
 
Vehicles 
 
170,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 80% 
of local expenditures 
 
3.   Microgrants       
 
100,000 
 
100% 
4.   Consulting services 
1,100,000 
100% 
 
5.   Training 
 
300,000 
 
100% 
 
6. I
ncremental Operating                                   
Costs 
 
100,000 
 
100% 
7.   Unallocated 
260,000 
________ 
 
TOTAL 
          2,200,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Lake Chad Basin Countries for goods or services 
Page  15
-
14
-
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Lake Chad Basin 
Countries;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Lake Chad Basin Countries or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Lake Chad Basin Countries; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental costs 
incurred under the Project on account of office rental, fuel and maintenance for vehicles, 
equipment operation and maintenance, utilities, office supplies, communication expenses, 
staff travel and associated subsistence allowances, salaries for contractual and temporary 
staff, management fees, but excluding salaries of the civil servants of Lake Chad Basin 
Countries. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $300,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 2002. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works and goods under 
contracts not exceeding $150,000; (ii) consultants' services (firms) under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) consultants' services (individuals) under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) training and Incremental Operating Costs 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.  
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the capacity of the Recipient 
to promote and improve coordinated and sustainable water management in the Basin;  
(b) to strengthen institutional mechanisms in Lake Chad Basin Commission Countries for 
management of transboundary water issues; (c) to develop a Strategic Action Program to 
improve the conservation and management of land and water resources in the Basin; and 
(d) to assist the Recipient in coordinating donor support of the Strategic Action Program 
and transboundary management. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A:
Project Coordination
1. 
Recruitment of a Project Manager and technical, administrative, public 
participation, and communications experts to carry out Project management and 
implementation. 
 
2. 
Establishment of the Project Management Unit to facilitate and coordinate 
Project implementation. 
 
3. 
Establishment of a framework to coordinate implementation of related projects in 
the Basin. 
 
4. 
Establishment of a scientific advisory committee, local co-ordinating committees, 
and an Inter-ministerial Committee in each Lake Chad Basin Country. 
 
5. 
Provision of support to the Project Steering Committee, and for regular meetings 
thereof.
 
Part B:
Regional Policy Initiatives
1. 
Review of functions and responsibilities of the Recipient to strengthen its 
functional capabilities. 
 
2. 
Increasing the awareness of national water resource policy makers about 
transboundary issues and related land and environmental policies.  
 
3. 
Coordination of activities in other basins, including the Congo, Lake Victoria, 
Niger, Nile and Senegal basins. 
Page  17
-
16
-
4. 
Integration of transboundary water and environmental policies into national 
development plans.
 
5. 
Carrying out a review of the legal framework in Lake Chad Basin Countries to 
enable an integrated regional approach for management of the Basin’s resources.
 
6. 
Improving the integrated regulatory environment for the transboundary 
management of power generation, irrigation, fisheries, water quality and effluent 
standards, diversions and consumptive uses.
 
Part C:
Stakeholder Engagement
1. 
Engaging stakeholders in Lake Chad Basin Countries to inform Project 
implementation. 
 
2. 
Supporting local planning initiatives for community level stakeholders to 
establish sustainable development plans and sub-basin planning frameworks. 
 
3. 
Identifying additional pilot projects for inclusion in the Strategic Action 
Program. 
 
4. 
Prioritization of local, national and regional initiatives in the Basin to arrive at a 
coherent and integrated approach. 
 
5. 
Development of a methodology to conduct environmental impact studies on a 
regional basis that fully involves local stakeholders. 
 
Part D:
Basin Modeling
1. 
Carrying out a review of existing scientific, hydro-environmental and socio-
economic data on groundwater, aquatic ecosystems and water consumption. 
 
2. 
Establishment of a Basin-wide monitoring network for rainfall pattern, climatic 
changes, surface and groundwater resources. 
 
3. 
Establishment of a reliable scientific data base for low-flows and flood 
discharges, topography and salinity of Lake Chad, water quality of rivers, aquifer levels, 
flooding dynamics, recharges, and river and Lake balances. 
 
4. 
Establishment of key environmental indicators in the Basin to measure 
compliance with regulatory structures and regional management plans. 
 
5. 
Development of the capacity of the Lake Chad Basin Commission and of each 
Lake Chad Basin Country to analyze hydro-environmental risks. 
Page  18
-
17
-
6. 
Establishment of an integrated model of surface and groundwater within the 
Basin capable of identifying long-term consequences of development alternatives. 
 
Part E:
Pilot Projects
1. 
Integrate the headwaters area into the Basin ecosystem, including community-
based land and water resource management. 
 
2. 
Carrying out a pilot project in Lake Fitri to prevent land degradation and to 
protect aquatic ecosystems under stress. 
 
3. 
Development of a regional program to meet growing water demand, to mitigate 
against drought, to control desertification, and to obtain local agreement on alternatives.  
 
4. 
Development and implementation of a transboundary management plan for Lake 
Chad and its shoreline. 
 
5. 
Carrying out pilot projects in: (a) Komadogou-Yobe, and (b) Chari Logone sub-
basins to improve the respective management of Waza-Logone and Hadejia-Nguru flood-
plains. 
 
6. 
Incorporating results from the pilot projects into the design of a Strategic Action 
Program. 
 
Part F:
Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
1. 
Development of a plan for future donor coordination. 
 
2. 
Carrying out a review of donor and riparian commitment to the Strategic Action 
Program. 
 
3. 
Presentation of the transboundary diagnostic analysis to Interministerial 
Coordinating Committees and development of a Strategic Action Program through a 
multi-sectoral dialogue in each Lake Chad Basin Country. 
 
4. 
Development of a blueprint for implementation of the Strategic Action Program. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
3. Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, office and field equipment, 
communication equipment and computers and works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount for goods not to exceed $750,000 equivalent and for works not to 
exceed $250,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  20
-
19
-
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or more; the first contract to be procured using national 
competitive bidding; and the first contract to be procured using international shopping, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consu
ltants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for each contract under the Project estimated to cost less than $150,000 
may comprise consultants from the Lake Chad Basin Countries in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for auditing under Part D of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every month during the execution 
of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to the first contract with a firm, and each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
Page  22
-
21
-
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to any contract for the employment of a consulting firm or 
an individual consultant under the Project, the draft terms of reference shall be submitted 
to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
Overall Project Coordination:
The Recipient shall by May 1, 2003, designate and maintain throughout the 
Project implementation period the Steering Committee as the entity responsible for 
overall Project coordination and supervision. The Steering Committee shall have the 
responsibility to review proposed work plans and budgets, monitor implementation 
performance and foster inter-ministerial and regional cooperation in the management of 
the Basin.  
 
2. Project 
Administration 
and 
Management
:
The  Recipient shall maintain the Project Management Unit as the entity which 
shall have overall responsibility for Project management and coordination, including the 
preparation of the annual work plans, budgeting and finance, maintenance of a proper 
financial management and accounting system for the Project, preparation of bidding 
documents and monitoring of the overall procurement process, management of technical 
assistance activities and the preparation of a Project completion report. The Recipient 
shall maintain the Project Manager who shall be responsible for day-to-day management 
of the Project with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.   
 
3. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, about February 1, 2005, or such later dates as the Bank shall agree, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 1, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Bank's views on the matter. 
4. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth 
in the PIM and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend or waive any 
Page  24
-
23
-
provision thereof if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
5. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a)   not later than October 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for review and 
comments a draft annual work program and supporting budget for the succeeding 
calendar year; 
 
(b)   not later than November 30 in each year: (i) review with the Bank the 
documents referred to in paragraph (a) above; (ii) identify implementation issues and 
propose appropriate solutions; and (iii) update Project timetables and performance 
indicators;  and 
 
(c)   not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for its comments 
and final approval the work program and budget referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, as 
such program and budget shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the Bank in the 
course of the review referred to in paragraph (b) hereof and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, carry out the Project in the year in question on the basis of the said work 
program and budget as so revised. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$1,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  26
-
25
-
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  27
-
26
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 
