Report No. PID8707
Project Name                     BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA-Private Sector Credit ... @
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Financial Sector Development;
Small Scale Enterprise; Other Industry
Project ID                       BAPE70243
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE IN SRPSKA ENTITY
Fund for Employment and Development
Address: Vladike Platona 3,
78000 Banja Luka, Republika Srpska
Contact Person: Srecko Bogunovic
Tel: 387-51-221-270
Fax: 387-51-217-947
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                December 17, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         07/15/2000
Projected Board Date     02/28/2002
1. Country and Sector Background
(a) Macroeconomic Aspects. After the strong post-conflict growth in 1996
(86 percent) and 1997 (40 percent), growth in 1998 and 1999 steadied at
about 10 percent per annum. Basic economic and social infrastructure has
been rapidly rehabilitated with the support of massive donor funding. In
2000, the growth decelerated to six percent. Despite the impressive
post-conflict recovery, GDP in 2000 was around half of its prewar level,
and living standards for the majority of households remain low.
Unemployment is high, with job creation in the formal sector minimal, and
informal sector activity widespread. The country has undertaken some
notable reforms with the objective of developing modern governance
structures and broadening the private sector base. The key features of
the macroeconomic framework for the 2000-2002 period include continuation
of the currency board arrangement to maintain a stable exchange rate,
controlling the fiscal deficit and avoiding government borrowing from
domestic banks, and managing the accumulation of arrears in wages and
transfer payments. Commitment of new, albeit reduced, donor assistance
has been and continues to be critical for maintaining external liquidity
in the 2000-2002 period. The ultimate success of the country's reforms
rests on its ability to shift from its dependance on high levels of
concessional foreign aid flows to a situation where commercial borrowing
on international markets becomes feasible. It is also hoped that the
acceleration of the privatization program in both entities will bring in
increased private sector investment. This, in turn, should contribute to
restructuring in the productive sectors and, ultimately, lead to
sustainable economic growth in the medium term. (b) Enterprise Sector.
The RS economy has evolved into a small-scale, mostly informal, private



sector economy.   The growth of registered private sector enterprises has
been dramatic -- the number of private enterprises has increased from
about 1,100 in 1996 to over 19,000 at end of 1999. There were also about
1,000 larger, socially-owned enterprises. (Since 1999, a number of these
enterprises has been privatized). Leading sectors among larger
enterprises are textiles (garments and apparel), wood and paper products,
and food processing. Utilization of this, still functional, industrial
capacity of Republika Srpska inherited from the former Yugoslavia has been
around 30 percent in the past couple of years. The potential for
continued utilization of this capacity is diminishing, as management and
workers have few incentives to preserve capital or ensure healthy
profits. The small, new, private enterprises are mostly active in trade
and services, often with some up-stream manufacturing activity. They
typically employ up to 10 people, although the most successful ones by now
have hundreds of employees. In most cases, the owners are experienced
professionals who are thoroughly familiar with the production and
technology and who understand the market. These enterprises have the real
growth perspective, especially in food processing, wood processing, pulp
and paper, and needed services. The private small and medium-size
enterprise sector is trying to expand and/or re-capture its traditional
markets in the neighboring countries, for example Zagreb markets in
Croatia for food products or Italian and Austrian market for wood
products. Exports have increased rapidly since 1996. Continued strong
export growth in the coming years will depend on further re-orientation
of trade towards larger and more stable markets, especially EU.Key Sector
Issues and Government Strategy. The key issue for the Government on the
enterprise sector agenda is privatization. The RS Parliament adopted the
Law on Privatization of RS Enterprises in June 1996. It deals with
privatization of national enterprises, mixed ownership enterprises and
other profit-making judicial persons (except for utilities and strategic
enterprises). The Directorate for Privatization (DPF) is active since
1998, but the progress has been slower then expected. Privatization of
small enterprises (with asset valued below KM300,000) has been practically
completed by mid-2001. About 170 (smaller) enterprises have been
privatized with the mix of cash and coupons (issued against frozen foreign
currency deposits). About 830 large enterprises, with capital valued at
about KM8.7 billion, have been slotted for privatization through a
combination of vouchers (about 30 percent of capital totaling about KM2.5
billion) and tenders (70 percent of capital totaling KM6.2 billion). By
mid-2001, the voucher privatization portion has been completed. The
tender-based privatization is continuing. For the tender privatization of
largest enterprises (52 enterprises in RS), the assistance of
international community has been sought. An International Advisory Group
on Privatization has been formed and donor funding has been pledged for
qualified foreign advisors to prepare the prospectuses and organize
international tenders for about 30 larger enterprises. The Bank's PTAC
will provide funding for 18 enterprises.    The key issue for the next
period is to attract qualified foreign investors.Access to finance for
investments and working capital will be critical in the post-privatization
period, especially for enterprises that were privatized through vouchers
and to domestic investors, and this is where the Project is expected to
help in a number of ways. One in by providing investment financing on
medium terms to allow privatized enterprises to renew their technology and
address the most critical production bottlenecks. Another is by helping
banks to develop better risk management policies and practices. This
-2 -



would improve banks' capacity to identify, price and manage the credit
risk and, therefore, their generally increase their willingness to lend.
(c) Banking Sector. Institutional and Regulatory Framework. The Banking
Agency has been established in 1997, and has received massive technical
assistance funded by USAID. A new Banking Law has been enacted in 1999.
Intense regulatory efforts in 1999, under the auspices on the Bank's
Emergency Pilot Credit Project, have resulted in a regulatory environment
which generally meets international standard practices in aspects of key
importance. This has been accomplished much faster then expected. The
legal and regulatory framework is now substantially complete and generally
in conformance with BIS recommendations. Progress has also been made in
improving the off-site surveillance system of banks. The reporting
requirements cover all major areas of banking risk. The on-site
examination have also started in 1999, and each bank has been reviewed at
least once in 18 months. The quality of on-site examination is reasonable
and further improving. For the next period, the key challenge would be to
build the authority of the Agency and its capacity to effectively enforce
its regulations. Structure. The banking sector in RS comprises 17 banks,
two branch offices of banks with domiciles outside the RS and a postal
savings system. One privately owned bank has been closed as of end-2000.
There are ten majority socially-owned banks, including eight remnants of
the banking system of the former Yugoslavia, one created by carving out
banking operations from the Payment Bureau and a postal saving system.
After cleaning KM2.22 billion (of non-performing assets with the
corresponding liabilities and frozen foreign currency deposits) from the
balance sheets of socially-owned banks, the system shrunk to about KM526
million (or 20 percent of its size in 1990) as of end-1999. It has
experienced growth of about 23 percent in year 2000, and further 8.5
percent in the first six months of 2001, led by a number of new private
owned banks. Banking sector assets totaled about KM705 million as of
end-June 2001, and capital amounted to KM194 million. The system is
mostly funded by deposits, which totaled KM362 million.       Banking
Markets. Banking markets in RS are small and characterized by intense
competition. Macroeconomic reforms have been much slower then expected,
which affects stability and increases the systemic risk. Resource
mobilization capacity is limited, as the savings capacity is low and there
is still a major confidence problem. The resources that banks manage to
mobilize are mostly sight deposits and banks are hesitant to use such
funds as a basis for term lending, due to the high risk associated with
maturity mismatches. The contributing factor is the lack of skills in the
banking sector to properly appraise and manage the credit risk, especially
for longer maturities. Legal and judiciary system reforms are also
lagging, and this affects banks' capacity to collect on collateral.
Banks, therefore, prefer not to lend, rather then to make costly
mistakes. Nevertheless, the credit market volume is slowly increasing.
As of end-June 2001, the credit market totaled KM360 million, of which KM
175 million (48 percent) was credit to privately owned enterprises. The
share of the private sector credit is rapidly increasing. For the
privately owned banks, it already includes about 70 percent of the total
credit portfolio. Credit on longer maturities is practically
unavailable. As of end-June 2001, credit with maturities of over one year
accounted for about 27 percent (KM47 million) of the total credit market
and was mostly funded by donors or international financial institutions
(with the Bank being one of the largest funding sources).         Key Issues
and Government Strategy. The key issue in banking sector reforms is that
-3 -



there has been little or no progress on bank's privatization. In the
three years since the establishment of the Bank Privatization Unit, only
one socially-owned bank (Agroprom) has been privatized, and even this
privatization is being challenged. While this was mostly due to the lack
of investors' interest, the lack of initiative has also been a
contributing factor. The Government has been unwilling to close the banks
which have failed to attract the interest of private investors.
Meanwhile, the incentives for management of socially-owned banks have
pointed towards decapitalization and rapid accumulation of bad assets
(since the cleaning of balance sheets in 1999). This was mostly due to
lending and guarantees extended to large socially-owned enterprises, which
were often connected parties (also avoiding privatization).      As of
mid-2001, the new Government seems to have acquired a resolve needed to
comprehensively address the banks' privatization problem and put the
banking reforms on a faster track. It has asked for international
assistance to help with privatization of the three largest state owned
banks (Razvojna, Kristal and Banjalucka) and has agreed to the liquidation
of a bank which fails to be privatized. In order to facilitate
privatization or liquidation, and remove all undue influences, the three
banks will be put under trusteeship of international experts (to be funded
by donor funds). As of end October 2001, the funding has been agreed and
the final arrangements are being made to select and nominate the trustees
and start the process. For the next period, the key challenges in the
banking sector in RS are to: (i) complete the ownership transformation;
(ii) improve the safety and soundness through more effective enforcement
of regulations and by strengthening banks' capacity to effectively manage
financial risks; iii) consolidation of the banking sector into a smaller
number of financially stronger domestic banks and opening of the RS
banking market to international competition. In terms of the real sector
needs, the challenge is to improve the banking sector's capacity to
effectively deliver term finance and services needed for private sector
development and for economic growth.
2. Objectives
Objectives. The principal objective of the proposed project is to promote
the SME development by improving access to finance for the private
sector. Participation under the proposed project is expected to hone
banks' capacity for SME lending (and for appraisal and management of the
associated credit risk). The subloans are expected to stimulate exports
and improve the supply response in manufacturing, related services, food
production and agro-processing. In addition, the project would play an
active role in shaping the development of the banking sector in Republika
Srpska. It is expected to stimulate credit market competition and to
assist in building the institutional capacity of the new privately owned
banks. The technical assistance component will also continue to provide
institution building support to the Banking Agency. The project is one of
the key elements of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for the
Repuiblika Srpska Entity.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank's assistance to private sector development in Bosnia-Herzegovina,
including RS, has been mostly in helping to establish the regulatory,
institutional and policy framework necessary for a market economy and in
initiating structural reforms.    The Emergency Pilot Credit Project in RS
has been the Bank's first attempt to directly assist the private sector in
- 4 -



RS by stimulating its growth.    By all measures, the EPCP has been very
successful. Of the 139 subprojects financed under the EPCP, 97 percent
were repaid on time. The subloans were extended to 25 townships and
villages and cover 15 different subsectors of manufacturing, food
production and agro-processing. There were very positive demonstration
and spill-over effects.    The recent implementation survey included about
63 percent of the beneficiaries that are six months or more out of grace
period (i.e., there was enough time for benefits of the subprojects to
impact the respective enterprise bottom-lines). The survey has also
indicated that: n 89 percent of the final beneficiaries increased their
sales by 80 percent on average after implementing the subproject and
significantly improved their profitability.n About 30 percent of the
final beneficiaries started exporting. Exports were diversified from the
traditional RS exports to Yugoslavia.n On average, six new jobs were
created for each subloan extended, i.e., the total of over 700 new jobs
were created by the EPCP.n 60 percent of the final beneficiaries would
like to get additional subloans to further expand their business.Other
international institutions and donors active in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
that have also extended credit lines, have not been so successful. It
appears that the critical factor for the success of Bank's involvement has
been Bank's capacity to engage both top-down, thus directly assisting with
the critical elements of the macroeconomic framework and reforms programs,
and bottom-up, by getting directly involved with individual banks and
their clients. This has helped the banks to improve their lending, credit
risk management, supervision and loan administration practices. Another
important aspect has been Bank's involvement with all key stakeholders,
both at the macro and at the micro level, such as the close involvement
with the Association of Private Producers.    Bank's capacity to assist on
both policy and institutional front remains critically important for the
development of the private and banking sector in RS. This is especially
true for the new, smaller private banks, which are likely to participate
in the project and which do not have access to high quality technical
assistance that is normally associated with Bank's credit line
operations. Understanding of banking markets and of major banking
institutions in RS, acquired through direct involvement in credit line
operations, will also provide a meaningful insight which will help in
Bank's policy dialogue and in the design of future adjustment operations
supporting financial sector reforms and private sector development.Access
to finance remains critically important for the private sector. The
Bank's credit line will provide medium and long term funding that is
necessary for investments. Technical assistance components would allow
banks to address the areas where they critically need technical assistance
and to improve banking technology. Direct Bank involvement would also
help RS banks to improve chances of access to international finance. The
Bank's presence normally signals to the international financial community
that the banking sector reform is on-track and that there are banks
capable of meeting the qualification criteria for participation under the
Bank-financed credit lines. International banks are aware that the banks
participating in Bank's projects are under continuous scrutiny and are
provided with technical assistance, if and when necessary. This usually
opens the doors for additional external finance for the domestic banking
system, or at least improves the terms of correspondent relationships of
the qualified banks with foreign banks.
4. Description
-5-



The project will comprise two components. A credit line component of USD7
million would provide private enterprise finance to be extended through
participating privately-owned banks to creditworthy private enterprises
for viable projects. The financing will include investments and/or
incremental, permanent working capital in industry, agro-processing and
the related service sectors. In addition to private sector enterprises,
access to credit will also be open to privatized enterprises providing
that the private sector share exceeds two thirds of the total equity.
Besides supplying much needed funding for the private sector, the project
would play an active role in shaping the development of the banking sector
in Republika Srpska. A technical assistance component of USD2 million
will provide for technical assistance to be extended to participating
banks and/or to banks interested in participation, and/or to the Banking
Agency. Funding will be extended to individual banks through TA subloans
and would be available on request. The subloans would be used to fund
improvements of institutional capacity in specific areas, for banking
technology or for training. Technical assistance for the Banking Agency
is needed to improve its technology, for off-site surveillance systems and
to strengthen its on-site examination capacity. Additional donor funding
for technical assistance to the Banking Agency has been already
discussed.ComponentCategoryCost Incl. Contingencies (US$M)9 of
TotalBank-financing(US$M)t of Bank-financingLine of creditSME
creditlO.0667.077Technical AssistanceInst.
building5.0342.023Totall5.01009.0100
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Banks and Final Beneficiaries                             5
IDA                                                       9
Bilateral Donor                                           1
Total Project Cost                                        15
6. Implementation
Onlending Arrangements. The International Development Association (IDA)
would make funds available to the State of Bosnia Herzegovina under the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), governing the terms and conditions of
the IDA credit and specifying the project. The State of Bosnia
Herzegovina would on-lend the funds on IDA terms to Republika Srpska (RS),
based on the Subsidiary Finance Agreement (SFA) with terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. In addition, IDA and RS would sign a Project
Agreement (PA). The PA will also define the principal terms and conditions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) which are to be entered into by RS
and the participating commercial banks, as well as the terms and
conditions of the sub-loans which are to be extended by the participating
banks to their enterprises borrowers in RS. On-lending Mechanism for SME
Subloans. Subloans will be made based on an application of a PFI to extend
a subloan to eligible beneficiary for eligible project. Sub-loans
financed from IDA funds will be extended back-to-back to PFIs' loans to
final borrowers. The decision to extend a subloan will be made by the
PFIs based on analysis of clients' creditworthiness and projects'
viability. The necessary analysis will be performed by PFIs. The CLS,
operating under the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF), will
evaluate each PFI's application to ensure that banks' sub-loan appraisal
and approval practices conform with the Operating Guidelines, as agreed
for the Project, and with principles of sound banking. If below the free
- 6 -



limit, the loan will also require a prior review and a no-objection by the
Bank.On-Lending Mechanism for TA Subloans. Ta subloans to banks would be
extended by the DEF on the basis of an application made by an interested
bank. The application would explain the intended purpose of the bank's
institutional development project for which the funding is being sought,
as well as the expected effects of technical assistance or banking
technology improvements on bank's financial condition and market
position. The subloans would be extended on a first-come, first-served
basis. The decision to extend a subloan will be made by the DEF, in
consultation with the Bank (and the Banking Agency, when applicable). The
decision will be based on analysis of applicant's creditworthiness and the
relevance of the requested technical assistance in terms of bank's
strategy and institutional development program, in the content of
addressing certain systemic or banking market issues and/or for
participation in the project. Eligibility of RS Businesses. The subloans
would be extended to credit worthy private borrowers. To be eligible,
enterprises must be majority privately owned (i.e., at least 65 percent of
private equity) and registered with tax authorities. They should be
active in manufacturing, food production or agro-processing, or in related
services. Enterprises will be required to demonstrate that they are
credit worthy and have prior operating experience in the activity to be
financed, preferably of at least two years. Final beneficiaries would be
required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than three-to-one
(defined as total debt, including the sub-loan, divided by registered
equity) and minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 (defined as cash
earnings after all operating expenses before interest and principal due
divided by principal and interest payments). They should have sufficient
working capital, including sub-loan proceeds, to meet all existing and
projected financial obligations in a timely manner. Under the Operating
Guidelines, enterprises with owners/shareholders, directors, or managers
who have criminal records or who have been indicted for any felony will
not be eligible. PFIs are expected to ensure that no subloans will be
made available to such enterprises. The CLS would verify that no suboans
have been made available to such enterprises. If the CLS concludes that
the rule has been breached, it would call the subloan to be promptly
repaid. Eligibility of SME Projects. Private borrowers are expected to
have a significant equity stake in the respective enterprise and to be
ready to finance from own funds at least 25 percent of the project's cost,
in order to ensure their serious interest in the project's success.
Sub-loans would finance investments, repair or modernization, and/or
incremental permanent working capital. Proceeds would be used for
equipment and raw materials, repairs to facilities and minor construction
(not to exceed EUR75,000). Thorough appraisal of borrower's financial
condition and prospects and of subproject's viability would be required.
Each project application would be accompanied by a business plan, a
balance sheet and an income statement, and cash-flow projections.
Projects would be required to have an expected financial rate of return of
at least 12 percent. (Calculations of the economic rates of return will
not be required for as long as the Currency Board arrangements are in
place). Projects would also need to meet appropriate environmental
guidelines, acceptable to the World Bank. Borrowers should be able and
ready to provide enough collateral to support the sub-loan.     SME Sub-loan
Terms.   Funds will be on-lent through participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs). Subloans would be extended on a first-come,
first-served basis. A PFS would be allowed to borrow up to 50 percent of
-7 -



the total available funds. The decision on whether to extend a subloan
will be left to the PFIs. The subloans to PFIs will be extended
back-to-back to PFIs' loans to final beneficiaries under the same terms
and conditions. All subloans will be denominated in EUR, including
subloan service and interest charges. The terms and conditions will be
the following: n Investment loans to final beneficiaries will range from
EUR12,500 to EUR250,000. Larger amounts may be considered by the Bank on
a case-by-case basis and would need to be specially justified. Maturity
of investment subloans will normally be up to five years, with up to six
months of grace. Longer maturities would require the Bank's
no-objection. The subloan terms will match the specific project to be
financed. n Working capital subloans to final beneficiaries will be up to
EUR125,000 with maturity of up to three years and grace period of up to
three months.fn Interest rate on subloans to PFIs will not be less then
four percent per annum. The interest rate arrangements will be reviewed
by the Bank, from time to time, and adjusted to actual market conditions.
The PFIs interest spread would not be greater then six percent. The
spread will be reviewed by the Bank from time to time, and adjusted to
reflect the risks and the applicable market spreads. n PFIs will extend
loans to final beneficiaries at market terms. Banks would determine
principal amortization and interest payment schedules on a case-by-case
basis, based on cash-flow projections, but subloan service payments would
generally be made monthly. There would be no subloan prepayment
penalties, and interest could be charged on a declining balance formula.fn
The Credit Line Section (CLS) will charge 100 basis points (one percent)
service charge in the form of a commitment fee on approved funds that are
not yet disbursed. The CLS will also collect an interest spread of 100
basis points on disbursed amounts, which will be deducted from the
interest charged to PFIs. Currency Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Credit
Risk. Sub-loans would be denominated in EUR and the borrowing enterprises
will assume the currency risk. The currency risk would be limited, as
Bosnia and Herzegovina maintains the Currency Board arrangements.     The
interest rate risk will also be limited due to IDA funding. PFIs will
assume the full credit risk on all sub-loans that they have financed under
the project. Eligibility of Projects for TA Financing. The TA subloans to
banks would finance: i) consulting assistance necessary to strengthen
institutional capacity of the respective banking institution, especially
its capacity to identify, appraise, price and manage financial and
operational risks; ii) consulting assistance necessary to address any of
the issues which threaten or may worsen the financial condition or capital
adequacy of the respective bank; iii) training necessary to improve any of
its banking functions or any of its financial and/or operational risk
management functions; and iv) investments related to the improvement of
banking technology in the areas related to the improvement of bank's
capacity to appraise and/or manage its financial and operational
risks.Eligible technical asssitance projects of the Banking Agency (to be
funded by donor funds) may include: i) assistance for application of
prudential regulations and accounting frameworks consistent with Basle
Committee recommendations or comparable international standards; ii)
introduction of new examination techniques concerning on-site inspections
and/or enhanced off-site surveillance; iii) development of risk management
capacity and early warning systems; iv) development of peer reviews and
trend analysis; or v) staff tarining.TA Sub-loan Terms. The TA subloans
would be requested by PFIs and other eligible banks and extended on a
first-come, first-served basis. All subloans will be denominated in EUR,
- 8 -



including subloan service and interest charges. The terms and conditions
will be the following: n TA subloans will range from EUR25,000 to
EUR125,000. Larger amounts may be considered by the Bank on a
case-by-case basis and would need to be specially justified. n Maturity
of TA subloans will normally be up to three years, with up to six months
of grace. Longer maturities would require the Bank's no-objection. n
Interest rate on TA subloans to PFIs will not be less then six percent per
annum. The interest rate arrangements will be reviewed by the Bank, from
time to time, and adjusted as needed. n The DEF will charge 100 basis
points (one percent) service charge in the form of a commitment fee on
approved funds that are not yet disbursed. The DEF will also collect an
interest spread of 100 basis points on disbursed amounts, which will be
deducted from the interest charged to PFIs.Currency Risk, Interest Rate
Risk, Credit Risk. Sub-loans would be denominated in EUR and the
borrowing bank will assume the currency risk. The Government will assume
the credit risk on banks.
7. Sustainability
Project benefits are expected to be sustainable. For the private sector
subprojects, sustainability will be addressed through appraisal of
creditworthiness of individual private sector borrowers and of financial
and economic viability of subprojects. Clients which are not creditworthy
and subprojects which are not financially or economically viable will not
be financed. Sustainability of the revolving credit line beyond the first
sub-loan cycle will depends on timely and full repayment of sub-loans by
borrowers and participating banks, which would be achieved through close
supervision and follow-up by the CLS/DEF. The biggest threat to
sustainability of subproject benefits would likely be the deterioration of
regional stability and/or the lack of political will to sustain the
transition to a market economy. Banks will be selected based on their
interest, their financial condition and capital adequacy, and their
institutional readiness. From such a starting point, project
implementation and the associated technical assistance are expected to
result in improved institutional capacity and safer banking institutions.
Sustainability of advances to be accomplished by participating banks seems
good, for as long as the political situation in the region remains stable
and the Government remains committed to market reforms.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Subloan terms and conditions. The design of the proposed credit line is
building on lessons learned from the EPCP. The EPCP was a flexible,
general purpose credit line with subloans for investment and working
capital finance of up to DEM250,000 and up to three year maturity. The
average subloan has been about DEM135,000, but the size varied depending
on subsectors and individual subprojects. The subloans have typically
accounted for about 30-40 percent of the total investment. The proposed
project will have the same flexible design, but will try to expand on the
range of clients and the size of projects. Therefore, the maximum amount
has been increased to EUR250,000 for investment subloans and available
maturity up to five years. The working capital loans will have maximum
amount of EUR125,000 and maturity of up to three years. The proposed
project will not have any particular amount pre-allocated for any
particular type of customers. There will also be no limitations requiring
that the Bank's subloan be the only loan on the balance sheet of a final
borrower.     Financial Appraisal  has been only rudimentary under the
-9-



EPCP, which was still a major step forward as compared to practices before
the EPCP. The proposed Project will be a further step forward: financial
analysis will be performed on a subproject-by-subproject basis as part of
the appraisal of eligibility of individual borrowers and subprojects.
Subprojects will be requested to have a minimum financial rate of return
of 12 percent. To assess the risk, sensitivity analysis will be performed
for each subproject, including sensitivity to price variations in the
expected product/services market and to increase in operating cost.
Accreditation of PFIs. The EPCP used as intermediaries only
socially-owned banks. For the proposed Project, only privately owned banks
would be able to participate. The EPCP did not encompass a set of
comprehensive eligibility criteria. Access to the credit line has
practically been limited to the four pre-selected banks. However, the
situation has changed in the past two years. The Banking Agency has
completed the set of key prudential regulations, which now provide an
adequate framework for effective enforcement of meaningful participation
criteria. The new private banks have matured and learned to compete. The
credit line under the proposed project will be open to all banks
interested in participation and able to meet the qualification criteria.
This is expected to stimulate competition in the RS credit market and to
lead to increased efficiency of financial intermediation.     This will also
reduce the riskiness of the proposed project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Subloans under the EPCP (i.e., the pilot credit
line) averaged about USD70,000. It is expected that the average sub-loan
under this project will be about USD80-90,000. No major environmental
issues are identified or expected. Subprojects classified as
environmental category III or category IV will not be eligible for
financing. Banks will be required to screen subprojects and to ensure
that each enterprise is operating in accordance with local and Bank
applicable environmental guidelines. The project implementation unit in
DEF will monitor to confirm that enterprises and banks are in compliance
with environmental requirements. These arrangements are part of the
Operating Guidelines under the Project Implementation Plan.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
S. Brajovic-Bratanovic
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2985
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
- 10 -



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Jan. 11, 2002
- 11 -



