Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23293-BA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR8 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOV1NA
FOR THE
PRIVATE SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
February 6, 2002
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = Konvertibilna Marka
1KM = US$0.5
US$I = 2.02KM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Agency       RS Banking Agency
BIS          Bank for International Settlements
BH           Bosnia and Hlerzegovina
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CLS           Credit Line Section in the DEF
CLS           Credit Line Section
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DEF          Development and Employment Foundation
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EPCP         Emergency Pilot Credit Project
EU           European Union
EUR          Euro, Currency of the European Union
FRY          Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
FY           Fiscal Year
GAAP         Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
IAS           International Accounting Standards
IDA          International Development Association
EFC          International Finance Corporation
IFI          International Financial Institutions
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MOT          The State Ministry of Treasury
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PA           Project Agreement
PFI          Participating Financial Intermediary
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS           Republika Srpska
SFA          Subsidiary Finance Agreement
SLA          Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SME          Small and Medium Size Enterprises
SOE           State-Owned Enterprise
TA           Technical Assistance
USAID        US Agency for International Development
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Manager/Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:  Paul Siegelbaum, ECSPF
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sonja Brajovic Bratanovic, ECSPF



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PRIVATE SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    10
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       17
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                               17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         19
2. Financial                                                                        20
3. Technical                                                                        21
4. Institutional                                                                    21
5. Environmental                                                                    23
6. Social                                                                           24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               26



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   26
2. Critical risks                                                                   27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   29
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          29
2. Other                                                                            30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 42
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   62
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          67
Annex 11: Appraisal of Banks Interested in Participation                               69
Annex 12: Eligible Technical Assistance Programs                                       76
MAP(S)
Bosnia and Herzegovina



BOSNIA ANI) HERZEGOVINA
Private Sector Credit Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: December 17, 2001                          Team Leader: S. Brajovic-Bratanovic
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan Poortman    Sector Director: Paul J. Siegelbaum
Project ID: P070243                              Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development, IL - Small
Scale Enterprise, IY - Other Industry
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL)  Theme(s): Financial Sector; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X1 Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee      [] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 8 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: max.0.5%                         Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      5.00           0.00          5.00
IDA                                                           0.00          10.00         10.00
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                             0.00           1.00          1.00
Total:                                                        5.00          11.00         16.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE IN SRPSKA ENTITY
RS Development and Employment Foundation
Address: Vladike Platona 3, 78000 Banja Luka, Republika Srpska
Contact Person: Srecko Bogunovic
Tel: 387-51-221-270           Fax: 387-5 1-217-947          Email: sbogunovic@rsdef.org
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005
Annual    2.50        4.00      3.50
Cumulative    2.50       6.50      10.00
Project implementation period: 3.0
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
ODS FADF  RW DDV  - OI 2



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Background. Bank's assistance to private sector development in Bosnia-Herzegovina has been initially
focused on reconstruction and on helping to start regulatory, institutional and policy reforms needed for the
transition to a market economy. The Emergency Pilot Credit Project (EPCP), which was prepared in early
1998, was among the first Bank operations aiming to assist in restarting industrial and food production in
Republika Srpska. The project has been successfully implemented. Of the 139 subprojects financed under
the EPCP umbrella, 134 are repaying the subloans on time. The subloans reached 25 townships and
villages and have had a significant demonstration effect. At the enterprise level, there was a dramatic
increase in sales (averaging about 80 percent for the majority of enterprises) and about third of the
approved subprojects have had an export component. The subprojects have created over 700 new
permanent jobs and were among the most important permanent employment generating entities in their
localities. In addition, the EPCP has played a key role in shaping the development of the regulatory and
institutional framework for the banking sector in Republika Srpska. The donor-financed technical
assistance components have helped the Banking Agency to develop and enact key prudential regulations
and to strengthen its capacity for off-site surveillance and on-site examinations.
Objectives. The principal objective of the proposed project is to promote the private sector development
by improving access to finance for the private sector. Participation under the proposed project is expected
to hone banks' capacity for SME lending (and for appraisal and management of the associated credit risk).
The subloans are expected to stimulate exports and improve the supply response in manufacturing, related
services, food production and agro-processing. In addition, the project would play an active role in shaping
the development of the banking sector and markets in Republika Srpska. It is expected to stimulate credit
market competition and to assist in building the institutional capacity of the new privately owned banks.
The technical assistance component will also continue to provide institution building support to the
Banking Agency. The project is one of the key elements of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for
Republika Srpska.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Two types of performance indicators will be followed. Quantitative
performance indicators will include:
Number of participating banks
Number and volume of subloans committed and disbursed
Number and volume of performing subloans
Qualitative indicators, which link the Project's development objectives
with the Project's outcomes and impacts, include:
(i) For enterprise borrowers:
Increased output, sales and exports
*      Increased enterprise earnings and profitability
Number of new jobs created
*      Improved access to medium and long term loans
- 2 -



(ii) For participating banks:
*      Improved collection performance and increased loan portfolio
quality:
Lower risk profile, increased profitability
*      Asset growth, and growth of credit portfolio
Improvement of policies and procedures for risk management,
especially the credit risk
*      Creation of an internal audit department in banks
Improvements in management information systems
Compliance with relevant banking laws and regulations
issued by     the Banking Agency
(iii) For the Banking Agency:
Prudential regulations in conformance with BIS standards and
increasing authority
Improvements in coverage and quality of off-site surveillance
systems
Strengthening of on-site examination capacity and quality of
on-site diagnostics
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: No.20592-BIH for the CAS and No.22863-BIH for the CAS Progress Report
Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/18/2000 for the CAS and 10/18/2001 for the CAS Progress Report
The second Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was presented to the Board in May 2000. The most recent
CAS related discussion took place on October 18, 2001 on the CAS Progress Report
(Doc.No.22863-BIH). When the second CAS was reviewed by the Board, the economy was still enjoying
the benefits of the strong post-conflict growth fueled by high foreign aid inflows. The bulk of physical
reconstruction had been completed and the country was pursuing a clearly established reform agenda. The
key objective of the Bank's CAS for the 2000 to 2002 period is to further contribute to the creation of a
single and viable economic space and to increase economic opportunities and improve the quality of life for
all Bosnians, with poverty reduction as an overarching, cross-cutting theme. (An Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) has just been completed, and a full PRSP is scheduled for completion
in 2002.) The CAS emphasizes the importance of accelerating privatization and of creating an enabling
environment for the sustainable private sector-led growth and increased employment. It, therefore,
concludes that over the next few years, BiH needs to concentrate on fostering the private sector and
markets development, including financial markets. The objectives of the proposed Project directly support
the Bank's CAS.
The following related operations have been agreed with the Government in the CAS framework: An
Enterprise and Bank Privatization Credit (EBPAC) supporting small-scale privatization and initiation of
bank and large scale enterprise privatization, as well as the creation and strengthening of a number of
market institutions, is under implementation, although with some delays. The Privatization Technical
- 3 -



Assistance Credit (PTAC) has been approved by Bank's Board in June 2001 and will become effective in
early 2002. Its objective is to help accelerate large scale privatization by preparing the regulatory
framework required for divestiture of public utilities and other monopoly companies, helping to unbundle
the large holdings for easier privatization, assisting with the tenders of state-owned enterprises, and
improving transparency in equity markets to facilitate further ownership transformation for smaller
companies. A Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC), focused on addressing the key issues in
the business environment, is under preparation. A study on administrative barriers, prepared by the
Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) has been completed in 2001 and will serve as a basis for
BAC design.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Macroeconomic Aspects. After the strong post-conflict growth in 1996 (86 percent) and 1997 (40
percent), growth in 1998 and 1999 steadied at about 10 percent per annum. Basic economic and social
infrastructure has been rapidly rehabilitated with the support of massive donor funding. In 2000, the
growth decelerated to six percent. Despite the impressive post-conflict recovery, GDP in 2000 was around
half of its prewar level, and living standards for the majority of households remain low. Unemployment is
high, with job creation in the formal sector minimal, and informal sector activity widespread. The country
has undertaken some notable reforms with the objective of developing modem govemance structures and
broadening the private sector base. The key features of the macroeconomic framework for the 2000-2002
period include continuation of the currency board arrangement to maintain a stable exchange rate,
controlling the fiscal deficit and avoiding government borrowing from domestic banks, and managing the
accumulation of arrears in wages and transfer payments. Commitment of new, albeit reduced, donor
assistance has been and continues to be critical for maintaining balance of payments stability in the
2000-2002 period. The ultimate success of the country's reforms rests on its ability to shift from its
dependance on high levels of concessional foreign aid flows to a situation where commercial borrowing on
international markets becomes feasible. It is also hoped that the acceleration of the privatization program
in both entities will bring in increased private sector investment. This, in turn, should contribute to
restructuring in the productive sectors and, ultimately, lead to sustainable economic growth in the medium
term.
(b) Enterprise Sector. The RS economy has evolved into a small-scale, mostly informal, private sector
economy. The growth of registered private sector enterprises has been dramatic -- the number of private
enterprises has increased from about 1,100 in 1996 to over 19,000 at end of 1999. There were also about
1,000 larger, socially-owned enterprises. (Since 1999, a number of these enterprises has been privatized).
Leading sectors among larger enterprises are textiles (garments and apparel), wood and paper products,
and food processing. Utilization of this, still functional, industrial capacity of Republika Srpska inherited
from the former Yugoslavia has been around 30 percent in the past couple of years. The potential for
continued utilization of this capacity is diminishing, as management and workers have few incentives to
preserve capital or ensure healthy profits. The small, new, private enterprises are mostly active in trade
and services, often with some up-stream manufacturing activity. They typically employ up to 10 people,
although the most successful ones by now have hundreds of employees. In most cases, the owners are
experienced professionals who are thoroughly familiar with the production and technology and who
understand the market. These enterprises have the real growth perspective, especially in food processing,
wood processing, pulp and paper, and related services. The private small and medium-size enterprise
sector is trying to expand and/or re-capture its traditional markets in the neighboring countries, for example
Zagreb markets in Croatia for food products or Italian and Austrian market for wood products. Exports
have increased rapidly since 1996. Continued strong export growth in the coming years will depend on
- 4 -



further re-orientation of trade towards larger and more stable markets, especially in EU.
Key Sector Issues and Government Strategy. The key issue for the Government on the enterprise sector
agenda is privatization. The RS Parliament adopted the Law on Privatization of RS Enterprises in June
1996. It deals with privatization of national enterprises, mixed ownership enterprises and other
profit-making judicial persons (except for utilities and strategic enterprises).  The Directorate for
Privatization (DPF) is active since 1998, but the progress has been slower then expected. Privatization of
small enterprises (with asset valued below KM300,000) has been practically completed by mid-2001.
About 170 (smaller) enterprises have been privatized with the mix of cash and coupons (issued against
frozen foreign currency deposits).
About 830 large enterprises, with capital valued at about KM8.7 billion, have been slotted for privatization
through a combination of vouchers (about 30 percent of capital totaling about KM2.5 billion) and tenders
(70 percent of capital totaling KM6.2 billion). By mid-2001, the voucher privatization portion had been
completed. The tender-based privatization is continuing. For the tender privatization of largest enterprises
(52 enterprises in RS), the assistance of international community has been sought. An International
Advisory Group on Privatization has been formed and donor funding has been pledged for qualified foreign
advisors to prepare the prospectuses and organize international tenders for about 30 larger enterprises. The
Bank's PTAC will provide funding for 18 enterprises.  The key issue for the next period is to attract
qualified foreign investors.
Access to finance for investments and working capital will be critical in the post-privatization period,
especially for enterprises that were privatized through vouchers and to domestic investors, and this is where
the Project is expected to help in a number of ways. One in by providing investment financing on medium
terms to allow privatized enterprises to renew their technology and address the most critical production
bottlenecks. Another is by helping banks to develop better risk management policies and practices. This
would improve banks' capacity to identify, price and manage the credit risk and, therefore, their generally
increase their willingness to lend.
(c) Banking Sector. Institutional and Regulatory Framework. The Banking Agency was established in
1997, and has received substantial technical assistance funded by USAID. A new Banking Law was
enacted in 1999. Intense regulatory efforts in 1999, under the auspices on the Bank's Emergency Pilot
Credit Project, have resulted in a regulatory environment which generally meets international standard
practices in aspects of key importance. This has been accomplished much faster then expected. The legal
and regulatory framework is now substantially complete and generally in conformance with BIS
recommendations. Progress has also been made in improving the off-site surveillance system of banks.
The reporting requirements cover all major areas of banking risk. The on-site examination have also
started in 1999, and each bank has been reviewed at least once in 18 months. The quality of on-site
examination is reasonable and further improving. For the next period, the key challenge would be to build
the authority of the Agency and its capacity to effectively enforce its regulations.
Structure. The banking sector in RS comprises 17 banks, two branch offices of banks with domiciles
outside the RS and a postal savings system. One privately owned bank has been closed as of end-2000.
There are ten majority socially-owned banks, including eight remnants of the banking system of the former
Yugoslavia, one created by carving out banking operations from the Payment Bureau and a postal saving
system. After cleaning KM2.22 billion (of non-performing assets with the corresponding liabilities and
frozen foreign currency deposits) from the balance sheets of socially-owned banks, the system shrunk to
about KM526 million (or 20 percent of its size in 1990) as of end-1999. It has experienced growth of
about 23 percent in year 2000, and further 8.5 percent in the first six months of 2001, led by a number of
- 5-



new private owned banks. Banking sector assets totaled about KM705 million as of end-June 2001, and
capital amounted to KM194 million. The system is mostly funded by deposits, which totaled KM362
million.
Banking Markets. Banking markets in RS are small and characterized by intense competition.
Macroeconomic reforms have been much slower then expected, which affects stability and increases the
systemic risk. Resource mobilization capacity is limited, as the savings capacity is low and there is still a
major confidence problem. The resources that banks manage to mobilize are mostly sight deposits and
banks are hesitant to use such funds as a basis for term lending, due to the high risk associated with
maturity mismatches. The contributing factor is the lack of skills in the banking sector to properly appraise
and manage the credit risk, especially for longer maturities. Legal and judiciary system reforms are also
lagging, and this affects banks' capacity to collect on collateral. Banks, therefore, prefer not to lend, rather
then to make costly mistakes. Nevertheless, the credit market volume is slowly increasing. As of end-June
2001, the credit market totaled KM360 million, of which KM 175 million (48 percent) was credit to
privately owned enterprises. The share of the private sector credit is rapidly increasing. For the privately
owned banks, it already includes about 70 percent of the total credit portfolio. Credit on longer maturities
is practically unavailable. As of end-June 2001, credit with maturities of over one year accounted for
about 27 percent (KM47 million) of the total credit market and was mostly funded by donors or
international financial institutions (with the Bank being one of the largest funding sources).
Key Issues and Government Strategy. The key issue in banking sector reforms is that there has been
little or no progress on bank's privatization. In the three years since the establishment of the Bank
Privatization Unit, only one socially-owned bank (Agroprom) has been privatized, and even this
privatization is being challenged. While this was mostly due to the lack of investors' interest, the lack of
initiative has also been a contributing factor. The Government has been unwilling to close the banks which
have failed to attract the interest of private investors. Meanwhile, the incentives for management of
socially-owned banks have pointed towards decapitalization and rapid accumulation of bad assets (since
the cleaning of balance sheets in 1999). This was mostly due to lending and guarantees extended to large
socially-owned enterprises, which were often connected parties (also avoiding privatization).
As of mid-2001, the new Government has resolved to comprehensively address the banks' privatization
problem and put the banking reforms on a faster track. It has asked for international assistance to help
with privatization of the three largest state owned banks (Razvojna, Kristal and Banjalucka) and has agreed
to the liquidation of a bank which fails to be privatized. In order to facilitate privatization or liquidation,
and remove all undue influences, the three banks have been put under trusteeship of international experts.
As of end-2001, the donor funding has been agreed and the final arrangements are being made to select and
nominate the trustees and start the process. Of the three banks, one has been privatized (Banjalucka
Banka). For the next period, the key challenges in the banking sector in RS are to: (i) complete the
ownership transformation; (ii) improve the safety and soundness through more effective enforcement of
regulations and by strengthening banks' capacity to effectively manage financial risks; iii) consolidation of
the banking sector into a smaller number of financially stronger domestic banks and opening of the RS
banking market to international competition. In terms of the real sector needs, the challenge is to improve
the banking sector's capacity to effectively deliver term finance and services needed for private sector
development and for economic growth.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Lack of term finance for the private sector. The demand of viable private sector enterprises for
- 6 -



investments funding continues to be extremely high. Access to finance has been identified as one of the key
issues for growth of small and medium private enterprises. The financing terms available in RS do not
meet the private sector needs. Maturity of available finance is too short, typically 2-3 months. This does
not provide effective financing needed for rehabilitation or modernization of fixed capital stock or for new
investments. For the range of funding to be available under the proposed project, there are no alternative
sources. By providing finance with medium-term maturity, the proposed project will effectively addressed
critical financing needs, which would improve the private sector's supply response in manufacturing,
services and agriculture and stimulate sustainable growth.
Improve safety and soundness of the banking system and public confidence. Facilitate access, in the
next step, to regional financial markets. Within the broader framework of banking sector and markets
reforms supported by the Bank's CAS, the project will play an important role in providing hands-on
assistance in the next phase of banking sector development. Relatively strict participation criteria would
encourage banks to make the necessary effort to improve their financial condition and capital adequacy and
to improve asset quality, and this would contribute to improving the safety and soundness of the banking
system and public confidence. Cooperation with the Bank would teach the banks how to form and maintain
business contacts with foreign banks and help to eventually gain access to regional financial markets.
Strengthen institutional capacity of new, privately owned banks and of the banking supervision
authority. The project would play an important role in facilitating institutional development of new,
privately-owned banks and in improving their capacity to assess and manage risks, especially regarding
credit function and credit risk management. This will include hands-on technical assistance for individual
banking institutions to address specific areas of institutional weaknesses (e.g., internal audit, management
information systems) and general assistance to be provided to all participating banks in the areas of credit
risk appraisal, loan supervision, accounting and financial management, etc. The Banking Agency will also
be an important beneficiary, whereby technical assistance will be provided for the next (critical) phase of
its development.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will comprise two components. A credit line component of SDR 5.5 million (US$7 million
equivalent) would provide private enterprise finance to be extended through participating privately-owned
banks to creditworthy private enterprises for viable projects. The financing will include investments and/or
incremental/permanent working capital in industry, agro-processing and the related service sectors. In
addition to private sector enterprises, access to credit will also be open to privatized enterprises providing
that the private sector share exceeds 65 percent of the total equity.
Besides supplying much needed funding for the private sector, the project would play an active role in
shaping the development of the banking sector in Republika Srpska. A technical assistance component of
SDR 2.3 million (US$2.8 million equivalent) will provide for technical assistance to be extended to
participating banks and other interested banks, and/or to the Banking Agency. Funding will be extended to
individual banks through TA subloans and would be available on request. The TA subloans would be
used to fumd improvements of institutional capacity in specific areas, for banking technology or for
training. Technical assistance to the Banking Agency is needed to improve its technology, for off-site
surveillance systems and to strengthen its on-site examination capacity. Additional donor funding for
technical assistance to the Banking Agency has been discussed.
- 7 -



Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(USSM)     Total     (USSM)   financing
Credit Line                       Small Scale          10.00      62.5      7.00       70.0
Enterprise
Technical Assistance              Financial Sector      5.80      36.3       2.80      28.0
Development
Incremental Operating Cost        Other Finance         0.20       1.3      0.20        2.0
for Project Implementation
Total Project Costs                   16.00     100.0     10.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     16.00     100.0     10.00     100.0
A. Credit Line Component.
Eligibility of RS Businesses. The PFI subloans would be extended to creditworthy private borrowers. To
be eligible, enterprises should have at least 65 percent of private equity and must be registered with tax
authorities. They should be active in manufacturing, food production or agro-processing, or in related
services. Enterprises will be required to demonstrate that they are creditworthy and have prior operating
experience in the activity to be financed, preferably of at least two years. Final beneficiaries would be
required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than three-to-one (defined as total debt, including the
sub-loan, divided by registered equity) and minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 (defined as cash
earnings after all operating expenses before interest and principal due divided by principal and interest
payments). They should have sufficient working capital, including sub-loan proceeds, to meet all existing
and projected financial obligations in a timely manner. Enterprises with owners/shareholders, directors, or
managers who have criminal records or who have been indicted for any felony will not be eligible.
Eligibility of Subprojects. Private borrowers are expected to have a significant equity stake in the
respective enterprise and to be ready to finance from own funds at least 25 percent of the subproject's cost,
in order to ensure their serious interest in the subproject's success.  PFI sub-loans would finance
investments, repair or modemization, and/or incremental permanent working capital. Proceeds would be
used for equipment and raw materials, repairs to facilities and minor construction (not to exceed
EUR75,000). Thorough appraisal of borrower's financial condition and prospects and of subproject's
viability would be required. Each subproject application would be accompanied by a business plan, a
balance sheet and an income statement, and cash-flow projections. Subprojects would be required to have
an expected financial rate of return of at least 15 percent. (Calculations of the economic rates of return will
not be required for as long as the Currency Board arrangements are in place). Subprojects would be
required to meet environmental guidelines, acceptable to the World Bank. Borrowers should be able and
ready to provide enough collateral to support the PFI subloan.
Sub-loan Terms.   Funds will be on-lent through participating financial intermediaries (PFIs). PFI
subloans would be extended on a first-come, first-served basis. A PFI would be allowed to borrow up to
50 percent of the total available funds. The decision on whether to extend a subloan will be left to the PFIs.
The subsidiary finance to PFIs will be extended back-to-back to PFIs' subloans to final beneficiaries with
the same amount, maturity and grace period. All PFI subloans will be denominated in EUR, including
subloan service and interest charges. The terms and conditions will be the following:
- 8 -



* Investment loans to final beneficiaries will range from EUR12,500 to EUR250,000. Larger
amounts may be considered by the Bank on a case-by-case basis and would need to be specially
justified. Maturity of investment subloans will normally be up to five years, with up to one year of
grace. Longer maturities would require the Bank's no-objection. The PFI subloan terms will match the
specific subproject to be financed.
*  Working capital subloans to final beneficiaries will be up to EUR125,000 with maturity of up to
three years and grace period of up to three months.
*  Interest rate on subsidiary finance to PFIs will not be two to four percent per annum. The interest
rate arrangements will be reviewed by the Bank, from time to time, and adjusted to actual market
conditions. The PFIs interest spread would not be greater then six percent. The spread will be
reviewed by the Bank from time to time, and adjusted to reflect the risks and the applicable market
spreads.
*  PFIs will extend loans to final beneficiaries at market terms.
* The Development and Employment Foundation (DEF), will charge 100 basis points (one percent)
service charge in the form of a commitment fee on approved funds that are not yet disbursed. The DEF
will also collect an interest spread of 100 basis points on disbursed and outstanding amounts.
Currency Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Credit Risk PFI sub-loans would be denominated in EURO and the
borrowing enterprises will assume the currency risk. The interest rate risk will be limited due to IDA
funding. The currency risk would also be limited due to the Currency Board arrangements. PFIs will
assume the full credit risk on all PFI sub-loans that they have financed under the project.
Eligibility of Projects for TA Financing.  The TA subloans would finance: i) consulting assistance
necessary to strengthen institutional capacity of the respective banking institution, especially its capacity to
identify, appraise, price and manage financial and operational risks; ii) consulting assistance necessary to
address any of the issues which threaten or may worsen the financial condition or capital adequacy of the
respective bank; iii) training necessary to improve any of its banking functions or any of its financial and/or
operational risk management functions; and iv) investments related to the improvement of banking
technology in the areas related to the improvement of bank's capacity to appraise and/or manage its
financial and operational risks.
TA Sub-loan Terms. The TA sub-loans would be requested by PFIs and other eligible banks and
extended on a first-come, first-served basis. All subloans will be denominated in EURO, including subloan
service and interest charges. The terms and conditions will be the following:
* TA subloans will range from EUR25,000 to EUR125,000. Larger amounts may be considered by
the Bank on a case-by-case basis and would need to be specially justified.
* Maturity of TA subloans will normally be up to three years, with up to six months of grace.
Longer maturities would require the Bank's no-objection.
* Interest rate on TA subloans to PFIs will be minimum two percent per annum. The interest rate
arrangements will be reviewed by the Bank, from time to time, and adjusted as needed.
-9-



*  The DEF will charge 100 basis points (one percent) service charge in the form of a commitment fee
on approved funds that are not yet disbursed. The DEF will also collect an interest spread of 100 basis
points on disbursed and outstanding amounts.
Currency Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Credit Risk. Sub-loans would be denominated in EUR and the
borrowing bank will assume the currency risk. The Government will assume the credit risk on banks.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy objectives and institutional reforms supported by the project include:
Improve private sector business environment. Improve access to finance. The project's primary aim
is to stimulate growth and development of the private sector, including newly privatized companies, by
providing investment and working capital finance. In addition to increased sales, exports, profitability and
employment, the project aims to assist in institutional development of the private sector firms by promoting
financial discipline and by encouraging improvements in business planning, investrnent analysis and cash
management. The technical assistance to banks will improve banks' capacity to appraise and manage the
credit risk, thereby improving banks' willingness to extend credit to the private sector firns and to take the
risk associated with longer maturities. This would hopefully encourage banks to also lend from their own
funds.
Improve safety and soundness of the banking system and facilitate its integration into regional
financial markets. Within the broader framework of banking sector and markets reforms supported by the
Bank's CAS, the project should be also seen as an effective tool for bottom-up support to banking sector
reforms in RS. Better risk appraisal and management skills in the banking sector would contribute to
improved banks' financial condition and profitability. Over time, active engagement of a number of banks
is expected to stimulate competition and to lead to development of competitive banking markets.
Participation under the Bank's credit line is expected to at least improve the correspondent banking
relationships of local banks and to ultimately lead to higher foreign investments in the banking sector and to
improved access to regional financial markets.
Support ownership transformation in the banking sector and strengthening of institutional capacity of
new, privately owned banks. The project would play an important role in facilitating institutional
development of new, privately-owned banks and in improving their capacity to assess and manage risks,
especially credit function and credit risk management. It will teach the banks, hands-on, to appraise
creditworthiness of borrowers and feasibility of projects based on financial analysis, and to evaluate on the
basis of cash-flows rather the collateral alone. The technical assistance component will provide the needed
assistance to individual banks to address specific areas of institutional weaknesses and/or issues which
might lead to deterioration of bank's financial condition, and to improve banking technology.
3. Benefits and target population:
The target population are private and privatized enterprises and private banks.
For the private enterprises, the project is expected to:
* Improve access to investment and working capital finance for the private sector, both by providing
Bank funding for viable projects and through improving banks' willingness to lend own funds due to the
- 10 -



improved capacity to appraise and manage credit risk. Better management of credit risk will also result
in reduced interest rates and better credit terms (e.g., longer maturity).
* Working capital finance would allow private enterprises to better utilize their capacity and to
reduce production cost, by being able to buy production inputs in higher amounts and by improving
their procurement practices.
*  Investments financed by the project would increase earnings and profitability of private enterprises
and yield positive effects regarding their employment and income generation capacity.
* There would also be a positive demonstration effect and spill-over effects. For example, about 140
subloans extended so far under the EPCP have reached 25 townships and villages.
The benefits of such a project in Republika Srpska are already evident, as shown by the EPCP. The
subloans were extended for wood processing, floors and furniture; light industry with textiles, leather,
garments and footwear; building materials, doors, windows; chemicals and detergents; plastic, rubber and
glass products. Food production and processing was represented with animal and chicken food, meat and
poultry, eggs, milk and milk products, mushrooms, herbs, and food processing. At the enterprise level, the
EPCP borrowers show a dramatic increase in sales (averaging about 80 percent for the majority of
enterprises) and about third of the approved subprojects have had an export component. The subprojects
have created over 700 new permanent jobs and were among the most important permanent employment
generating entities in their localities. In all cases, the subloan appraisal has forced private owners to
commit a much higher capital to the enterprise (equity was increased from two to ten times, as compared to
equity declared in years before a subloan has been extended) and will force enterprises to declare (more
realistic) before-tax profits and to start paying profit taxes and social security contributions for the new
employees.
For the private banks, the project is expected to provide hands-on assistance for institutional
strengthening and encourage adoption of safe and sound banking practices. Participating banks are
expected to follow the Bank's rigorous subproject appraisal and supervision requirements, with analytical
tools and hands-on training provided by the Bank and technical assistance arranged as needed. More
specifically, the project would:
* Improve banks' capacity to identify, assess, price and manage banking risks. Especially important
would be the credit risk management, including banks' lending policies, appraisal of client's
creditworthiness and project economic and financial viability, lending procedures and practices, and
loan supervision and administration. The banks typically apply the same policies and techniques to
their entire portfolio. This would, in turn, increase bank's capacity to take risks.
*  Better management of credit risk is expected to result in increased banks' profitability and better
portfolio quality. This, in turn, would improve the bank's capacity to raise capital and bank's growth
prospects.
At the systemic level, the project is expected to:
* Promote competition in credit markets through encouraging participation of new private banks.
Access to finance and terms of finance for the private sector are expected to improve.
- 11 -



*  Banks would be required to meet, at all times, strict eligibility criteria related to their capital
adequacy, asset quality, financial condition and good standing with the Banking Agency. This and the
improved risk management capacity is expected to contribute to improved safety and soundness of the
banking system.
*  Technical assistance component would help the banks to address the areas of institutional
weaknesses and to manage real or anticipated problems, and this would also increase system stability.
* Insistence on good standing with the Banking Agency would contribute to increasing the Agency's
authority, which is a critical issue in banking supervision in RS.
* The project would also help with integration into regional financial markets, by ensuring that the
banks follow international standard practices, and by improving their correspondent banking
relationships. A bank which is able to meet the strict participation criteria established by the Bank is
likely to be regarded as acceptable partner by regional and international banks. This will likely open
doors for additional funding sources, at least for trade finance.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Legal Arrangements. The Intemational Development Association (IDA) would make funds available to
the State of Bosnia Herzegovina under the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), governing the terms and
conditions of the IDA credit and specifying the project. The State of Bosnia Herzegovina would on-lend
the funds on IDA terms to Republika Srpska (RS), based on the Subsidiary Finance Agreement (SFA) with
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. In addition, IDA and RS would sign a Project Agreement (PA),
describing the project in more details. The PA will also define the principal terms and conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) which are to be entered into by RS and the participating financial
intermediaries (i.e., commercial banks), as well as the terms and conditions of the sub-loans which are to be
extended by the participating banks to their enterprises borrowers in RS.
Project Coordination, Oversight and On-lending Arrangements. Financing will be provided through an
apex arrangement to allow open access of new banks and to reduce the supervision cost for the Bank. The
apex functions will include: (a) refinancing of PFI subloans to final beneficiaries; (b) monitoring of the use
of Bank funds, including procurement and disbursement; (c) administration of the disbursements and
collection (repayment) of advanced subloan funds; (d) monitoring of subloan appraisal practices; (e)
reporting on the use of project funds; and (f) other matters related to implementation of the project. The
apex function will be discharged by the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF), which will
manage and administer project implementation on behalf of Republika Srpska. DEF has already been
active in managing implementation of a number of Bank projects. It has developed financial management
capacity, which meets the Bank's minimum criteria. Further improvements of financial management
capacity (e.g., to reach the level allowing financial management report based disbursements) would be
required in the course of project implementation. A new Credit Line Section (CLS), which will be focused
on implementation of the proposed project, has been established. The CLS manager has already been
appointed and the CLS has been staffed. The Operating Guidelines (or Operational Manual) covering all
aspects of project implementation have been developed and are satisfactory to the Bank.
Responsibilities of Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFI) will include: (a) promotion and building of
the project pipeline; (b) appraisal of subprojects and of final beneficiaries; (c) subloan administration; (d)
subproject performance supervision; and (e) periodic reporting to the CLS/DEF and the Bank. The PFIs
- 12 -



will be required to establish a technical unit, specialized in long-term project lending and properly staffed.
Such a unit will appraise and supervise all subprojects financed by the respective PFI. The appraisals will
be cleared by the bank's Credit Committee. The PFIs will also be expected to introduce appropriate
internal audits and controls and to demonstrate that they have financial management capacity acceptable to
the Bank.
The decision to extend a PFI subloan will be made by a PFI. It will be based on analysis of client's
creditworthiness and project viability performed by the PFI. The CLS will evaluate each application to
ensure that PFIs' sub-loan appraisal practices conform with the Operating Guidelines, as agreed for the
Project, and with principles of sound banking. If below the free limit, the PFI subloan will also require a
prior review and no-objection by the Bank. Participating banks will be required to repay interest and
principal semiannually, and the final beneficiaries will repay subloans on a monthly basis. PFIs are
required to make service payments on each PFI subloan regardless of whether or not they have received
payments from the respective final beneficiary. A PFI that is delinquent in its payments will be charged
penalty interest on the outstanding balance of principal and interest for as long as it remains in arrears.
Payment arrears are a ground for suspension of participation. Each time a principle or interest due on a
PFI sub-loan is late, or the PFI has classified the respective subloan as substandard, doubtful or loss, it will
be required to provide to the CLS a report on the performance of the respective PFI sub-loan, to explain the
reasons for adverse classification and the subsequent developments, and provide the up-dated financial
condition of the borrower.
PFI Qualification Process (Detailed discussion in Annex 2). Banks interested in participation will submit
their application to the DEF. DEF will inform the Banking Agency about bank's expression of interest.
Thereafter, DEF will collect from interested banks information necessary to appraise whether the bank
meets the established eligibility criteria. Banks that wish to be considered for participation and all
participating banks will be required to provide to the Bank and to authorized Bank's representatives (on a
need-to-know basis) access to all pertinent information, including privileged and confidential information
and regulatory returns to the Banking Agency. They should agree to undertake annual external audits by
reputable auditors satisfactory to the Bank and according to international accounting and auditing
standards, to appoint the necessary staff and to devote adequate resources to project implementation.
Participation decisions will be initially made by the Bank on the basis of appraisal of an interested bank.
Over time, the Bank intends to pass-on the qualification function to a third party. The bank will be
informed in writing whether it was able to pass the appraisal, which are the weaknesses that must be
addressed for the bank to participate and what would be the conditions of its participation. Once qualified,
a bank will be expected to continue to meet the eligibility criteria at all times. Banks which have joined
under the partial qualification and signed an MOU specifying the agreed institution building program will
be expected to make the agreed progress according to the agreed timetable. The Bank will check the
financial viability of participating banks during supervision missions, normally two times per year, based
on mid-year un-audited financial statements and on external audits at year-end. For monitoring of whether
the qualified banks continue to meet the qualification criteria, the Banking Agency may assist the Bank in
collection of pertinent information necessary to appraise whether the bank continues to meet the eligibility
criteria.
PFI Eligibility Criteria. For full participation, a bank would be required to meet the eligibility criteria in
compliance with OP8.30. The PFI eligibility criteria require a bank to: i) be licensed and at least two years
of operations; ii) in good standing with the Banking Agency (i.e., meet all pertinent prudential and other
applicable laws and regulations) and remain in compliance with RS regulations; iii) majority privately
owned and its owners and mangers must be considered "fit and proper"; iv) maintain at least the minimum
- 13 -



capital, of which at least half as Tier I capital, and the risk-based capital adequacy of at least 12 percent;
v) maintain adequate liquidity, as required and attested by the Banking Agency; vi) classify its assets and
off-balance sheet credit risk exposures and make adequate provisions. A participating bank must not have
more then 35 percent of criticized assets (i.e., classified as substandard, doubtful and loss); vii) has positive
profitability and maintains value of its capital; viii) has qualified and experienced management, well
defined policies and written procedures for management of all financial risks; ix) has adequate internal
audits and controls; and x) has adequate management information systems.
Limited PFI Participation under the Memorandum of Understanding. For as long as there is a credible
commitment to banking reforms by the authorities, in order to stimulate development of a safe and sound
banking system, new private banks would also be able to participate in the project on a provisional and
limited bases even if they are not able to fully meet the eligibility criteria. However, for the provisional
access (as further elaborated in Annex 2), a bank should substantially meet certain key criteria and be able
to demonstrate that:
* Any deviations from the full qualification criteria do not constitute significant financial risk as
regards participation in the project (especially with respect to debt servicing capacity); and
* There is a credible and specific action plan (that includes a set of time-bound and monitorable
performance indicators) in place to meet the full qualification criteria within no more than 18 months.
Access to Bank funding for such banks will be limited to 25 percent of bank's capital until such time when
they would be able to fully meet the qualification criteria. Before signing the Subsidiary Credit Agreement,
such banks would be required sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Government
specifying a time-bound action plan with measures, satisfactory to the Bank, that the bank will take be
able to meet the qualification criteria in the period not exceeding 18 months. Requirements concerning the
content of the MOU are further elaborated in Annex 2. Once the Memorandum of Understanding between
an interested bank and the Government has been signed, the Bank will arrange (on a best effort basis) for
the necessary technical assistance. The financial condition of all banks will be appraised twice per year.
The appraisal of bank's financial condition will be based on the externally audited financial statements as
of year-end and on un-audited mid-year financial statements. The Bank will provide a report to
management specifying progress achieved towards being able to meet the qualification criteria is
satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will also continue to provide direct technical inputs to the bank. The
Bank will have the right to suspend a bank which is not able to fully meet the qualification criteria after 24
months, which fails to make any progress on its time-bound action plan as detailed in the MOU over
discrete six months periods, or whose financial condition deteriorates after it has joined the program.
PFI Suspension and Exit. Banks that are not dully observing the agreed operating procedures, which
breach the Bank requirements or procedures, which fail to meet the eligibility criteria at all times, or which
fail to implement the MOU according to the agreed time-table would be suspended from participation.
Suspension rules and exit strategies are further elaborated in Annex 2.
Financial Management, Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
Financial Management. (see Annex 6b for detailed review of financial management arrangements) DEF
will be charged with managing contracting and expenditures under the project and coordinating project
activities, as well as for the overall financial management. DEF has extensive experiences with the many
recent Bank's financed projects, including Local Development Project, Local Initiatives Projects (both first
- 14 -



and second projects), Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project, Social Sector Technical Assistance
Credit, Community Development Project and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit.
Financial Reporting. DEF will submit monthly reports on commitments, disbursements, collection and
arrears under the project to the Bank. It will prepare quarterly financial management report (FMR) for the
Project, as well as financial statements for the Foundation as a whole, in accordance with formats agreed
with the Bank. The FMRs will include the following areas: (a) Financial Report; (b) Project Progress
Report; and (c) Procurement Management Report. These financial reports will be submitted to the Bank
within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMR will be submitted at the end of the first
quarter in which disbursements commence, probably around August 15, 2002. The FMRs will follow
examples given in the Bank's LACI Implementation Handbook.
Audit Arrangements. The audit would include both a project audit, and an audit of the Foundation as
revenue-earning entity. The project audit would include a separate opinion by the auditor on the operation
of the Special Account. These audits should include a certification that the apex and the PFIs are in
compliance with the financial covenants agreed under the project. The State Ministry of Treasury of
Institutions (MOT) of BiH has recently renewed a three-year contract (2001-2003) with
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Netherlands for the audits of World Bank financed projects. The PSCP will be
included on the list of projects audited under the master audit agreement with PriceWaterhouseCoopers,
Netherlands. The Foundation would be subject to an independent, external audit, in accordance with
international accounting and auditing standards, on an annual basis. This audit would be carried out by an
independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank, and the audit report would be sent to the Bank within
six months of the end of the fiscal year. It is expected that the cost of audit will not be financed from the
credit and it will be financed from the Foundation's own income.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made based on traditional disbursement
methods (i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) and full documentation, and direct payments from the Credit Account). The proceeds of the World
Bank credit will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project
implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, one separate Special Account denominated in EURO for the RS DEF. Currently
no local banks in the country can be considered totally reliable and financially sound. It is therefore
recommended that the Govemment select bank outside BH to hold the Special Account. DEF will also
open a local account for local expenditures, as well as separate local account for repayment of the loans to
PFIs financed under the project.
Monitoring Arrangements. The key supervisory and monitoring functions will include: (i) appraisal and
qualification of participating banks and monitoring that the qualified banks continue to meet the
qualification criteria (with input from the Banking Agency); (ii) a-priori evaluation and clearance of banks'
appraisals of eligibility and creditworthiness of final beneficiaries for subprojects above the free limit and
of the first three presented by a newly qualified bank, and on a sampling basis during normal supervision
missions for the subprojects below the free limit; (iii) a-priori evaluation and clearance of banks'
appraisals of subproject eligibility and of economic and financial analysis for all subprojects above the free
limit and of the first three presented by a newly qualified bank, and on a sampling basis during normal
supervision missions for subprojects below the free limit; (iv) monitoring and  supervision of all
commercial practice procurements on a sampling basis during normal supervision.
- 15-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project is a follow-up project to the very successful Emergency Pilot Credit Project (EPCP). It has
been conceived, in close cooperation with the Association of Independent Private Producers and the
Banking Association, to address the needs for medium and long term investment finance of the private
enterprise sector. There were two other alternatives: one was not to extend any additional Bank- financed
assistance to the private sector and another was to use only guarantees or similar instruments.
*      Stop support for further private sector financing. Private sector growth and banking
sector reform and growth are critical to the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which (in
turn) may be a critical factor for the peace in the region. Over the next two to three year period,
Republika Srpska (as an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina) must also resume a sustainable
private-sector led growth. However, the critical preconditions for private sector growth are the
enabling environment and adequate access to finance. Reforms to improve business environment
for the private sector will be supported by Bank's structural adjustment operations under the new
CAS. There is, however, also a need to facilitate (on a temporary basis) private sector access to
finance. Not extending a follow-up project would limit access to finance for the private sector.
This would mean missing the chance of providing support to the private sector at the moment when
it really critically needs such a support.
*      Facilitate private sector access to term  finance through guarantees or similar
instruments. The Enterprise Export Facility, which is a guarantee operation, has been extended
by the Bank in FY99. The Enterprise Export Facility, however, can not effectively meet the
critical private sector growth needs -- it is not able to provide medium and longer term investment
finance, and it is not able to assist enterprises that are not exporting. Moreover, its support to the
banking sector does not cover the "bread and butter" of banking operations, that is, lending and
credit risk assessment and management. Moreover, the use of guarantee type of operations would
not have allowed active involvement with the Banking Agency and assistance to individual banks in
the area of credit risk management.
The banking sector is currently at the critical junction and needs the Bank's support. In order to stimulate
the private sector growth, banks must become capable to provide the range of cost-effective services needed
by the private sector. They must be capable of assessing and managing the credit risk, and active
involvement in a Bank credit-line project would allow hand-on assistance to banks. In most cases, the
skills learned from participation under the bank credit line are also transferred to other lines of banks' credit
business. The process of banks' qualification will also allow the Bank close cooperation and understanding
of banking environment in RS, which will be a critical input for the design of future structural adjustment
operations. Moreover, the Ban can directly assist with improving the banking environment. If the banking
sector were to gain access to external commercial finance and/or become interesting for foreign investors,
which is a necessary precondition for growth, the regulatory environment must become comparable to
Basle standards and banks must become (and be perceived internationally) as safe and sound. At this point
of banking sector development, such aspects can not be effectively addressed through guarantees or
similar Bank instruments.
- 16-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Stimulate private sector growth and  Emerg.Pilot Credit Project-  HS            HS
support banking sector reforms.
Privatization of the banking and  Enterprise and Bank              S             S
enterprise sectors                Privatization SAC
Stimulate exports                 Bosnia Enterprise Export         S             S
Facility
Emergency reconstruction.         Emergency Reconstruction         S             S
Assistance
Stimulate private sector growth by  SEED                           S             S
providing equity capital and TA
Improve business environment for the  Business Environment SAC
private sector
Assist with privatization         Privatization TA
Other development agencies
De-capitalization of enterprise sector  USAID credit line (30-750k)
Lack of support for start-ups/SMEs  KfW credit line (5-lOOk)
Lack of access to credit for SMEs  EBRD credit line under
preparation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Subloan terms and conditions. The design of the proposed credit line is building on lessons leamed from
the EPCP. The EPCP was a flexible, general purpose credit line with subloans for investment and working
capital finance of up to DEM250,000 and up to three year maturity. The average subloan has been about
DEM135,000, but the size varied depending on subsectors and individual subprojects. The subloans have
typically accounted for about 40-60 percent of the total investment. They have financed production
equipment, finalization of production sites and incremental working capital. Less then 10 percent of the
subloans were given exclusively for working capital finance, in all cases in combination with investment
which was financed by own funds. Although the EPCP credit line has been successful, the subloans did not
fully correspond to market needs.
The proposed project will have the same flexible design, but will try to expand on the range of clients and
the size of projects. Therefore, the maximum amount has been increased to EUR250,000 for investment
subloans and available maturity up to five years. The working capital loans will have maximum amount
of EURl25,000 and maturity of up to three years. The proposed project will not have any particular
amount pre-allocated for any particular type of customers. There will also be no limitations requiring that
the Bank's subloan be the only loan on the balance sheet of a final borrower.
- 17-



Financial Appraisal has been only rudimentary under the EPCP, which was still a major step forward as
compared to practices before the EPCP. The proposed Project will be a further step forward: financial
analysis will be performed on a subproject-by-subproject basis as part of the appraisal of eligibility of
individual borrowers and subprojects. Subprojects will be requested to have a minimum financial rate of
return of 15 percent. To assess the risk, sensitivity analysis will be performed for each subproject,
including sensitivity to price variations in the expected product/services market and to increase in operating
cost.
Accreditation of PFIs. The EPCP used as intermediaries only state-owned banks. The expectation was
that the banks would be privatized quickly and through "strategic" investors. This has not materialized.
Only two of the ten state-owned banks has been privatized so far. Moreover, in the meantime, the
state-owned banks have accumulated new bad assets, as they continued to support the loss-making
state-owned enterprises.  For the proposed Project, only privately owned banks would be able to
participate.
The EPCP did not encompass a set of comprehensive eligibility criteria. Access to the credit line has
practically been limited to the four preselected banks. However, the situation has changed in the past two
years. The Banking Agency has completed the set of key prudential regulations, which now provide an
adequate framework for effective enforcement of meaningful eligibility criteria. The new private banks
have matured and learned to compete. The credit line under the proposed project will be open to all banks
interested in participation and able to meet the eligibility criteria. This is expected to stimulate competition
in the RS credit market and to lead to increased efficiency of financial intermediation.  This will also
reduce the riskiness of the proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The RS Government sees the private sector as an engine of growth. It places a high priority to improving
the capacity of banks to provide efficient services to the private sector and to making long-term credit
available to the private sector at reasonable cost. Since the EPCP has been successfully implemented, the
Government has made numerous formal requests to the Bank to extend a new credit line operation. These
requests to the Bank to extend a new Project were actively supported by the Banking Association and by
the Association of Independent Private Producers, who are the main counterparts for the proposed Project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's assistance to private sector development in Bosnia-Herzegovina, including Republika Srpska,
has been mostly in helping to establish the regulatory, institutional and policy framework necessary for a
market economy and in initiating structural reforms. The Emergency Pilot Credit Project (EPCP) in
Republika Srpska has been the Bank's first attempt to directly assist the private sector in RS by stimulating
its growth. By all measures, the EPCP has been very successful. Of the 139 subprojects financed under
the EPCP, 97 percent were repaid on time. The subloans were extended to 25 townships and villages and
cover 15 different subsectors of manufacturing, food production and agro-processing. There were very
positive demonstration and spill-over effects. The recent implementation survey included about 63 percent
of the beneficiaries that are six months or more out of grace period (i.e., there was enough time for benefits
of the subprojects to impact the respective enterprise bottom-lines). The survey has also indicated that:
- 18 -



*  89 percent of the final beneficiaries increased their sales by 80 percent on average after
implementing the subproject and significantly improved their profitability.
*  About 30 percent of the final beneficiaries started exporting. Exports were diversified from the
traditional RS exports to Yugoslavia.
* On average, six new jobs were created for each subloan extended, i.e., the total of over 700 new
jobs were created by the EPCP.
* 60 percent of the final beneficiaries would like to get additional subloans to further expand their
business.
Other international institutions and donors active in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that have also extended credit
lines, have not been so successful. It appears that the critical factor for the success of the Bank's
involvement has been the Bank's capacity to engage both top-down, thus directly assisting with the critical
elements of the macroeconomic framework and reforms programs, and bottom-up, by getting directly
involved with individual banks and their clients. This has helped the banks to improve their lending, credit
risk management, supervision and loan administration practices. Another important aspect has been the
Bank's involvement with all key stakeholders, both at the macro and at the micro level, such as the close
involvement with the Association of Private Producers.
The Bank's capacity to assist on both policy and institutional front remains critically important for the
development of the private and banking sector in RS. This is especially true for the new, smaller private
banks, which are likely to participate in the project and which do not have access to high quality technical
assistance that is normally associated with the Bank's credit line operations. Understanding of banking
markets and of major banking institutions in RS, acquired through direct involvement in credit line
operations, will also provide a meaningful insight which will help in the Bank's policy dialogue and in the
design of future adjustment operations supporting financial sector reforms and private sector development.
Access to finance remains critically important for the private sector. The Bank's credit line will provide
medium and long term funding that is necessary for investments. Technical assistance components would
allow banks to address the areas where they critically need technical assistance and to improve banking
technology. Direct Bank involvement would also help RS banks to improve chances of access to
international finance. The Bank's presence normally signals to the international financial community that
the banking sector reform is on-track and that there are banks capable of meeting the qualification criteria
for participation under the Bank-financed credit lines. International banks are aware that the banks
participating in the Bank's projects are under continuous scrutiny and are provided with technical
assistance, if and when necessary. This usually opens the doors for additional external finance for the
domestic banking system, or at least improves the terms of correspondent relationships of the qualified
banks with foreign banks.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
- 19 -



Measures of cost-benefit or cost effectiveness are not applicable to the project as a whole. However, each
PFI sub-loan will be subject to credit analysis at appraisal, including an analysis of creditworthiness of the
final beneficiary and financial and economic analysis of the subproject. Financial and economic rate of
return of at least 15 percent is required for each subproject. At this time, there are no significant
distortions in the macroeconomic environment, as the market environment is liberal and the Currency Board
is in place. If significant macroeconomic distortions appear, the economic rate of return will also be
calculated for each subproject to be financed. For economic analysis, the key underlying assumptions
made will have to be clearly specified (e.g., prices of key factors such as labor and raw material and
assumptions on their changes).
The proposed pricing of the line of credit will be constantly evaluated in light of evolving credit market
conditions, as the proposed project is intended to stimulate prevent the development of appropriate
incentive structure and market-determined pricing in credit markets in Republika Srpska.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Subproject appraisal. Financial appraisal will be performed on a subproject-by-subproject basis as part
of the appraisal of eligibility of individual borrowers and subprojects. This will include calculation of the
financial rate of return and of incremental financial benefits and costs to the final beneficiary based on
"with-subproject" and "without-subproject" analysis. Assumptions underlying financial benefits and
forecasts (such as prices for key inputs and outputs, market outlooks for projections, or inflation) are
specified in the Operating Guidelines for the project and will be reviewed and adjusted from time to time.
Subprojects should have minimum financial rate of return of 15% percent. To assess the risk, sensitivity
analysis will be performed for each subproject, including sensitivity to exchange rate devaluation, to price
decreases in the expected product/services market and to increase in operating cost. Implementation risks
will also be assessed for each subprojects.
Appraisal of Credit Worthiness of Final Beneficiaries. In addition, financial soundness will be assessed
for each final beneficiary. This will include assessment of beneficiary's financial condition based on
historical and projected financial statements, using financial ratio analysis and comparisons with relevant
industry standards.  It will also include assessment of his business plan and investment programs,
assessment of market position and the sources of competitiveness and of stability in the respective market.
In addition, there will also be an assessment of leverage offered to the bank, in terms of participation of the
borrower in the total cost of the project and of pledged collateral.
Appraisal of PFI Financial Condition and Capital Adequacy. Analysis of financial soundness will be
carried out for each financial institution interested in participation in the project. Banks will be appraised
on the basis of their risk-weighted capital adequacy, which should be minimum 12 percent of which at least
half as Tier I capital. The Banks' asset quality, including off-balance sheet exposures, will be reviewed
regularly to ensure that the banks correctly classify their assets and that they make adequate provisions. A
participating bank must not have more then 35 percent of criticized assets (i.e., classified as substandard,
doubtful and loss). It must not have more then 5 percent of assets classified as loss. Banks must have
acceptable risk profile and positive profitability and they must maintain adequate liquidity. Appraisal of
participating banks will be carried out each year to ensure that they continue to meet the participation
criteria.
- 20 -



Fiscal Impact:
The project will have a positive fiscal impact due to the increased profitability and output of final
beneficiaries after the subprojects are implemented. A positive fiscal impact is also expected due to the
increased profitability of banks as a result of participation in the project.
3. Technical:
Technical analysis will be performed on a subproject-by -subproject basis, as part of appraisal of each
subproject. It will address technical, production and other relevant aspects specific for each subproject.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Development and Employment Foundation (DEF), which has successfully implemented a number of
Bank projects, will be responsible for the overall implementation and administration of the project. The
Credit Line Section (CLS), which will operate within the DEF, will support direct implementation of the
Project. The credit line will be intermediated by the participating financial intermediaries (PFI). The
Banking Agency in Republika Srpska may be involved to assist with the bank qualification process. Other
entities involved in the implementation would be private enterprises in the RS (sub-borrowers or enterprise
borrowers).
4.2 Project management:
The Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska through the Development and Employment Foundation
(DEF) will assume the overall responsibility for project implementation and supervision. The existing
Credit Line Section (CLS) under the DEF will review credit applications and make sure that the PFIs have
followed the agreed criteria for eligibility of borrowers and projects, supervise that sub-loans are made to
eligible enterprises in accordance with agreed criteria, and that procurement, disbursement, environmental
and other requirements are adhered with by all implementing agencies. A Credit Manual, as well as
procedures on non-performing loans, has been developed and tested under the EPCP. It will be used for the
proposed project in order to deal consistently with loan reviews, including actions on overdue payments.
The CLS will monitor the loans to participating banks and ensure that the participating banks are similarly
monitoring their sub-loans to enterprise borrowers, including environmental aspects. The existing Finance
Unit of the DEF will provide financial management services, including administration of the Special
Account and project's accounts, disbursements to the PFIs, and prepare withdrawal applications for the
Credit Account. In addition, the Finance Unit would develop a system to track payments of interest and
repayment of principal from the participating banks. The Finance Unit will inform Credit Line Section
promptly on any non-receipt of overdue payments from PFIs for further action.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurements will be the responsibility of final beneficiaries. Procurements of up to US$250,000 per
contract will use local commercial practices. Procurements for contracts of over US$250,000 will use the
Bank's Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure. Procurements on the basis of a single source
would be available on an exceptional basis, if so approved by the Bank. Sole-source procurements, if any,
will be for proprietary good, subject to the condition that procurements by beneficiaries would exclude their
affiliates and connected parties. (There is further discussion in Annex 6).
- 21 -



Consultants' services would be procured under contracts awarded to consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. Consultants would
be selected based on quality and cost and in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers (published by the Bank in 1997 with revisions in 1999). The provisions of the Guidelines
requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection process, proposals, evaluation
reports and contracts would not apply to consulting contracts with individuals with the contract values of
less then US$50,000 and to consulting contracts with firms with the contract values of less then
US$100,000.
The procurement process will be supervised by the PFIs, the DEF and the Bank. For procurements under
the Commercial Practice procedures: (i) the PFIs will continue to be responsible for prior review of all
procurements of their respective final beneficiaries. The PFI's reviews will take place before the PFI
executes the first procurement-related payment; (ii) the DEF will be responsible for review of all
Commercial Practice procurements to ensure that the PFIs and final beneficiaries adhere to the agreed
procurement methods and guidelines. The DEF's procurement review will take place at the time when a
PFI requires to withdraw funds related to the respective subproject and/or procurement, and/or when a PFI
instructs the DEF to directly execute the first payment related to the respective subproject and/or
procurement; and (iii) the Bank will supervise adherence on a sampling basis during supervision missions
(approximately one in five contracts). For the TA component, prior Bank review would apply to all terms
of reference and criteria for consultants' evaluation and to all procurements where contracts with
individuals exceed US$50,000 and with firms US$ 100,000.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management. A review was undertaken in the August to October 2001 period to determine
whether the financial management arrangements within DEF are acceptable to the Bank. (A financial
management assessment report is included in Annex 6b). A summary of the conclusion is included below.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is an emerging post-conflict country with weak public financial management
capacities and high perceived levels of institutional corruption. The Private Sector Credit Project is to be
managed by the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF). DEF has extensive experience with
many recent Bank financed projects, including Local Development Project, Local Initiatives Projects (both
first and second projects), Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project, Social Sector Technical
Assistance Credit, Community Development Project and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit.
It has been concluded that the DEF currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. The DEF's financial management capacity is considered capable of satisfactorily recording
all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding the entities' assets, and DEF is subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank. A
summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
- 22 -



Financial Management Assessment     Rating                      Comments
1. Implementing Entity            Satisfactory  DEF implements many Bank's projects
2. Funds Flow                     Satisfactory  Same funds flow as in the previous project (EPCP)
3. Staffing                        Satisfactory Experienced financial team
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Satisfactory Good financial manuals and policies
5. Intemnal Audit                     NA      No reliance placed on internal audit
6. External Audit                  Satisfactory The project will be audited under a country-wide audit
agreement. DEF will be audited annually. DEF fully
complies with the audit covenants in existing
Bank-financed projects. There were also no accounting
issues reported by the auditors in the most recent audits.
7. Reporting and Monitoring        Satisfactory DEF prepares reliable financial reports
8. Information Systems             Satisfactory Using Scala accounting system
Overall Financlal Management      Satisfactory
Rating
Financial flows. The draft accounting and financial flows for the Project are described in detail in Annex 6
(b). The financial flows will comprise mainly of:
(a) Direct payments of loans from DEF which will be on-lent to participating commercial banks, in
accordance with restricted-purpose loan agreements, The PFIs will on-lend to the final borrowers (eligible
borrowers), in accordance with loan agreements between the PFIs and the clients; (b) Technical assistance -
direct payment from Special Account to consultancy firns for technical assistance provided to PFIs.
Financial Risks. From a financial management perspective, the Project is considered a high risk operation
for the following reasons: i) the liquidity and credit risks of lending to PFIs in a relatively weak banking
environment in RS; ii) possible misuse of project funds (including credit line) by the PFIs or DEF; iii)
financial risks associated with final borrowers/enterprises, iv) public perceptions of corruption in Bosnia
and Herzegovina; v) weak banking sector; and vi) weak public sector financial management capacity.
These risks are considered as manageable based on the experience of EPCP and due to the various
risk-mitigation measures taken. These include careful selection of partner PFIs, based on a thorough due
diligence appraisal; careful selection of eligible sub-projects and borrowers, tightly drafted subsidiary loan
agreements and close monitoring and auditing of PFIs operations to avoid misuse of funds; and up-front
development of the DEF's financial management systems, including appointment of well-qualified staff and
development of internal controls, satisfactory to the Bank. (See Annex 6b for full description of risk
mitigation measures).
Project Financing Plan. The project's financing plan, which includes the Credit from the Bank, and the
project's planned expenditures have been realistically estimated. The project is financially sustainable. The
reflows from the on-lending operations are sufficient to cover the repayment of the IDA credit, as well as
the operational cost of project management. The subprojects financed by Bank funds are expected to
continue to bring the estimated benefits to their respective owners.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Regulations of the former Yugoslavia are still applied in RS. These are monitored and administered by
reasonably competent authorities at the local level. PFIs will be required to work with local environmental
- 23 -



authorities to ensure that the subprojects are properly screened and that the borrowing enterprises operate
in accordance with applicable local and Bank environmental guidelines. The DEF will monitor these
arrangements to confirm that enterprises and PFIs are in compliance with environmental requirements.
Arrangements for environmental safeguards are included in the Operational Guidelines under the Project
Implementation Plan. The Bank will supervise these arrangements and will be free to intervene, if and
where needed.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
This project is a follow-up to the Emergency Pilot Credit Project. The subloans under the EPCP averaged
US$70,000 and it is expected that the average sub-loan under this project will be about US$90,000. No
major environmental issues have been noted under the EPCP and none are identified or expected under the
project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
PFIs will be required to work with local environmental authorities to ensure that the subprojects are
properly screened and that the borrowing enterprises operate in accordance with applicable local and
Bank's environmental guidelines. DEF will monitor these arrangements to confirm that enterprises and
PFIs are in compliance with environmental requirements. Arrangements for environmental screening and
the respective safeguards are included in the Operational Guidelines under the Project Implementation Plan.
The Bank will specifically supervise the environmental aspects of PFI subprojects.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no social issues that are relevant to the project development objectives. The project is expected
to have positive social development outcomes, as it will contribute to increased employment. For example,
there were about 140 subloans extended under the Emergency Pilot Credit Project. The assessment of
direct development impact for the EPCP indicated that an average of six new jobs per subloan were
created. More jobs were created in private enterprises, which were suppliers of the final beneficiaries.
Moreover, the entrepreneurs were expected to (and monitored that they actually) pay all social and fiscal
dues for the new employees. There were also other positive spill-over effects. For example, firms have
started to pay the dues for their other employees.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The stake-holders include both the private sector and the governmental institutions and agencies. The
project has been conceived as a result of close collaboration between the Bank and the key stakeholders
- 24 -



from the private sector. However, all key stakeholders (i.e., both from the private sector and from the
Government) have been directly involved in project's design and preparation.
The most important stakeholder from the private sector has been the Association of Independent Private
Producers (AIPP), which has 19,000 member enterprises. Enterprises that are members of the AIPP are
expected to be the main beneficiaries of the project. Therefore, the AIPP has been an important partner in
designing the project, especially conceming the eligibility of borrowers and projects and the terms and
conditions of subloans.  Another important partner from the private sector has been the Banking
Association (BA). The BA has been consulted about all matters of project design, and was an active
contributor to defining the terms and conditions of subloans, the eligibility of final borrowers, the eligibility
of subprojects and the eligibility of banks for participation in the project. The technical assistance
component has been thoroughly discussed with the BA and is based on key inputs from RS banks.
The RS Banking Agency has been a major beneficiary of technical assistance arranged by the EPCP
Project. It has an interest for cooperation with the Bank to continue. The Banking Agency has been
consulted on all matters related to participation criteria, appraisal of participating banks, and monitoring.
It has provided major contributions to the design of the technical assistance component. The Ministry of
Finance sees the proposed Project as a tool to bring advances of market economy to underdeveloped
regions and to stimulate employment and exports. The Ministry of Industries the proposed project as an
important step to support the development of the private sector, especially by meeting the needs of new
enterprises and of newly privatized enterprises.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The consultation with all key stakeholders, especially with the Association of Independent Private
Producers (AIPP) and the RS Banking Association, will continue during project's implementation. This
will be accomplished through organizing promotional meetings with the AIPP members, whereby the
objectives of the project and the eligibility criteria will be explained to interested private enterprises.
Arrangements have also been made to assist the interested private sector entities in preparing the subloan
applications. There will also be a feed-back process, as the AIPP will be consulted, from time to time, on
whether the subloan condition continue to be satisfactory and meet the needs of the market.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable.
- 25 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do anN of Lhe foflo%%ing safeguard policies apphl to the project"
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes   No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Participating banks will be required to work with local environmental authorities to ensure that the
subprojects are properly screened and that the borrowing enterprises operate in accordance with the
applicable local and Bank's environmental guidelines. DEF, which maintains specialized environmental
staff, will monitor to confirm that enterprises and PFIs are in compliance with the applicable environmental
requirements. Arrangements for environmental safeguards are included in the Operating Guidelines under
the Project Implementation Plan.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project benefits are expected to be sustainable. For the private sector subprojects, sustainability will be
addressed through appraisal of creditworthiness of individual private sector borrowers and of financial and
economic viability of subprojects. Clients which are not creditworthy and subprojects which are not
financially or economically viable will not be financed. Sustainability of the revolving credit line beyond the
first sub-loan cycle will depends on timely and full repayment of sub-loans by borrowers and participating
banks, which would be achieved through close supervision and follow-up by the CLS/DEF. The biggest
threat to sustainability of subproject benefits would likely be the deterioration of regional stability and/or
the lack of political will to sustain the transition to a market economy.
Banks will be selected based on their interest, their financial condition and capital adequacy, and their
institutional readiness. From such a starting point, project implementation and the associated technical
assistance are expected to result in improved institutional capacity and safer banking institutions.
Sustainability of advances to be accomplished by participating banks seems good, for as long as the
political situation in the region remains stable and the Government remains committed to market reforms.
- 26 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Macro-economic stability in RS.            S         - IMF program.
- Bank's structural adjustment operations.
- Additional financial support from
intemational community
Sustainability of reforms under political  H         - Continuous dialogue with IMF and the Bank.
pressure.                                             - Balkan Stability Pact.
Enabling environment for PSD.              S         -Improvements in legal and regulatory
framework
- Bank's Business Environment Adjustment
Credit currently under preparation.
-Measures to facilitate licensing.
Privatization of state owned banks         S
lagging. Contagion due to bad financial              - New program to transfer the largest state
condition of state owned banks.                      owned banks under trusteeship and thus prevent
political interference to privatization has been
designed. The government seems committed to
implement it. The donor funding has been
arranged.
Corruption and public perception of        H         - Anti-corruption program.
corruption.                                           - Public sector reform programs.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of interest by banks able to meet the  M        - Two private banks able to meet the criteria. -
qualification criteria.                              Project design adjusted to allow qualification of
banks under the Memorandum of
Understanding.
- Significant technical assistance component
included in project's design.
- Additional technical assistance to be funded by
donors.
Sufficient demand for sub-loans by         M        -Project designed with major inputs by the
credit-worthy RS businesses.                        private sector stakeholders.
-RS firms showed sufficient demand at terms
and conditions envisaged.
- Credit terms will be adjusted to credit market
terms, as needed.
Adverse selection of final beneficiaries   M         -Mandatory appraisal of client creditworthiness
and suboprojects                                    supervised by DEF&the Bank.
-Mandatory appraisal of subproject viability
supervised by DEF and the Bank.
-Disbursements will be suspended in case of
Government's is involvement in credit decisions.
- 27 -



Financial Management Capacity                S         - Project Implementation Unit (i.e., DEF), which
already has the necessary financial management
experience.
- Operational Manual and Financial
Management Manual will spell-out transparent
procedures and effective controls.
- Close monitoring of PFIs and final
beneficiaries.
Overall Risk Rating                          H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The risk of successful implementation for a project in a transition economy (i.e., "component to output"
risk) and for sustainability of project's results mostly stem from less then enabling policy, business and
market environment. In the RS case, this risk is magnified by the general instability in the region. The
risk of policy reversals under political pressure is also critical. The impact of such reversals is greater, if
the risks are not properly identified and adequately managed. Risks related to business and policy aspects
have been carefully analyzed, not only in the context of the proposed project but also in the broader context
of the Bank's assistance strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the whole region. For example,
critical risks are already covered by a number of Bank's structural adjustment operations, which are
already under implementation (such as the Enterprise and Banks Privatization Structural Adjustment
Credit) or under preparation (such as Enterprise Business Environment SAC). At the micro level, these
risks are addressed by affecting the willingness of (safe and sound) banks to lend and of private enterprises
(with adequate financial discipline) to borrow in an unstable business environment. In general, banks will
not be willing to lend if they are not able to correctly appraise credit risk and/or to ultimately collect on
collateral. Enterprises will be hesitant to borrow, if they are not confident that they can manage the risks
inherent in their business environment.
Another risk that has been analyzed and addressed is the risk of adverse selection that can materialize in
two forms: (i) as adverse selection of intermediaries (i.e, banks that are not adequately capitalized and in
sound financial condition, which are more likely to make adverse selection of final beneficiaries and which
will not be able to service subloans in arrears); and (ii) adverse selection of final beneficiaries (i.e.,
extending loans to businesses that are not viable and/or for subprojects that are not financially sound).
Both risks have been specifically addressed in project's design.
Intermediaries that will be able to participate in the project will be accepted based on strict eligibility
criteria (See Annex 2 and Annex 11).  Banks will be appraised annually by the Bank and subject to
continuous scrutiny by the supervisory authorities, which are expected to report on problems experienced
by participating banks. Banks that stop meeting the qualification criteria will be suspended. A PFI exit
strategy has been designed and would be duly enforced, including a number of possible scenarios:
*      If a bank is found to breach the established rules, its further participation will be
suspended (i.e., the bank would loose its right to utilize Bank funds for future commitments) until
such time when the problem has been addressed to Bank's satisfaction.
*      If a bank utilizes Bank funds for ineligible expenditures or does not obey Bank procedures,
the erring bank would be asked to clean its mistakes by a certain deadline, or else refund to the
Special Account all Bank-financed amounts that have been improperly used.
- 28 -



*      If a bank's financial condition deteriorates to the point that it is not able to continue to
meet the eligibility criteria, and it is a bank with full qualification, its status will be downgraded to
provisional participation and the bank would be required to sign a Memorandum of Understanding
with the Government specifying measures that the bank commits to take to restore its PFI status.
*      If a bank's financial condition deteriorates to the point that it is not able to continue to
meet the eligibility criteria and its debt service capacity is in doubt, its participation would be
suspended until such time when the problem has been addressed to Bank's satisfaction.
*      In cases when a bank has become insolvent, the bank will be given a deadline to improve
its capital position. If the bank fails to improve its capital position, its participation will be
suspended permanently and the Bank-funded credit portfolio will be moved to a participating bank
which continues to meet the eligibility criteria. Such participating bank will be selected on a
competitive basis.
*      In cases when it has been established beyond reasonable doubt that a bank's owners or
managers are not "fit and proper", the bank will be given a deadline to remove such owners or
managers and appoint the ones that are "fit and proper", or else the Bank-funded credit portfolio
will be moved to a participating bank which continues to meet the criteria. Such participating bank
will be selected on a competitive basis.
There are also criteria that address the risk of adverse selection of final beneficiaries. The eligibility
criteria for beneficiaries specifically require that the beneficiaries are in sound financial condition and that
the subprojects are financially viable. The due process of subloan appraisal (as mandated by the
Operational Manual) includes full appraisal of borrowers' financial condition, of their market position and
sources of competitiveness and of their business and growth plans. Subproject appraisal, that includes
FRR analysis, aims to ensure that the subproject represents a sound investment with reasonable chances of
return, which must be over 15 percent. The participating banks are expected to appraise each borrower
and subproject. A due process has also been established to ensure that the appraisal actually takes place
and that it is sound. The CLS has been charged with responsibility to ensure that the participating banks
have done a solid quality appraisal and to check key parameters.  All subprojects extended by
inexperienced banks and all larger subprojects will also be reviewed by the Bank.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None has been identified.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following additional conditions have been agreed:
* Execution of the Subsidiary Finance Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika
Srpska on terns and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
* Execution of the Subsidiary Finance Agreement satisfactory to IDA between Republika Srpska and
at least one qualified participating bank.
- 29 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Banking Environment.
Absence of distortions in the banking markets is of key importance for future development of the banking
system and for successful implementation of the project. To that end, the Government will be requested to
maintain such an environment:
* There should be no administrative interventions in the banking markets. Banks will continue to be
free to set interest rates that correspond to the level of risk and efficiency in Republika Srpska.
*  The Government will maintain an arms-length relationship with banks. It will not get involved in
banks' lending decisions.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
CI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Items which are yet to be completed are listed as conditions for Board presentation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
ZK 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recomnmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
S. Bra  c  atanovic              Paul J. Siegelbaum                Christiaan Poortman
TeaV tekera                      Sector Director                   Country Manager/Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance sustainability of     * Advanced privatization in the  * Reports by Bank PREM  and  * Regional stability
economic recovery and assist in  enterprise and banking sectors  ECSPF structural adjustment  * Political stability in both
transition to a market economy  * Growth of private sector output teams                       entities
by: (i) developing the private  and exports                                               * Commitment of RS Govt. to
enterpnse sector; and (ii)    * Safe and sound banks,                                     continue with transition process
promoting a competitive and   increased banking sector balance                            * Willingness of RS Govt. to
efficient financial sector    sheet                                                       liberalize and privatize
Project Development           Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
o Promote private sector     * Increased output, employment * RS statistics              * Continued progress in creating
development and facilitate    and profits of benefiting     * Surveys of borrowing RS     an enabling environment for PSD
economic growth               businesses                    enterprises
a Impact assessments by DEF
* Improve access to finance for  * Improved access to term loans. * Reports by the RS Banking  * Macroeconomic stability
the private sector                                          Agency
* Increase of RS credit markets  a Surveys of borrowing RS
volume                        enterprises
* Improved loan terms .
* Promote banking sector and  * Increase of banks' balance  * Reports by the RS Banking   * Macroeconomic stability
markets development and       sheets                        Agency                        * Privatization of state-owned
stimulate market competition  . Improved quality and reduced  * Surveys of borrowing RS   banks
cost of financial services    enterprises
* Improve safety and soundness  * Better asset quality and smaller * Reports by the RS Banking  *  Continued progress in
of the banking system and public losses. Increased profitability of Agency                    enacting and enforcing
confidence                    banks.                                                          prudential regulations
* Increase in deposits, especially
of term deposits
* Access to international
financial markets
*Increased presence of regional
banks
- 31 -



i                   |    ~~~~~~~Key Performance    Data Collection Strategyll
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
* On-lending to private      *No.of subloans extended and  eSupervision mission's reports  * Macroeconomic stability
enterprises                  total extended                * Regular progress reports by
* No. of delinquencies       DEF                          * Continued progress in creating
* Increase of sales, employment  Random sub-loan audits     an enabling environment for
and exports.                                                PSD
* Number of banks participating
* Continued progress in
enterprise and banking reforms.
* On-lending for technical   * Lower banks' risk profile and  *Supervision mission's reports
assistance                   improved skills for risk
management
On-Site RS Banking Agency
reports
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                 Outputs)
*  Line of Credit            * US$7million                   Financial management reports * Interest by banks able to meet
(the total of US$ 10 million,  . Annual external audits of  participation criteria
including the cofinancing by the  banks and special account  * Sufficient demand for
private beneficiaries)                                    sub-loans by RS private firms
*  Technical Assistance      * US$2.8million              * Financial management reports * Sufficient demand for
Component                    (the total of US$6 million,  * Annual external audits     sub-loans by banks
including cofinancing by banks
and the expected donor
contribution)
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Project Objectives. The principal objective of the proposed project is to promote the private sector
development by improving access to finance for the private sector. Participation under the proposed
project is expected to hone banks' capacity for SME lending (and for appraisal and management of the
associated credit risk). The subloans are expected to stimulate exports and improve the supply response in
manufacturing, related services, food production and agro-processing. In addition, the project would play
an active role in shaping the development of the banking sector in Republika Srpska. It is expected to
stimulate credit market competition and to assist in building the institutional capacity of the new privately
owned banks. The technical assistance component will also continue to provide institution building support
to the Banking Agency. The project is one of the key elements of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
for Repuiblika Srpska.
Project Description. The project will comprise two components. A credit line component of US$7 million
would provide private enterprise finance to be extended through participating privately-owned banks to
creditworthy private enterprises for viable projects.  The financing will include investments and/or
incremental, permanent working capital in industry, agro-processing and the related service sectors. In
addition to private sector enterprises, access to credit will also be open to privatized enterprises providing
that the private sector share exceeds 65 percent of the total equity.
Besides supplying much needed funding for the private sector, the project would play an active role in
shaping the development of the banking sector in Republika Srpska. A technical assistance component of
US$2.8 million will provide for technical assistance to participating private banks and other interested
banks, and/or to the Banking Agency. Funding will be extended to individual banks through TA subloans
and would be available on request. The TA subloans would be used to fund improvements of institutional
capacity in specific areas, for banking technology or for training. Technical assistance for the Banking
Agency is needed to improve its technology, for off-site surveillance systems and to strengthen its on-site
examination capacity. Additional donor funding for technical assistance to the Banking Agency has been
discussed.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$7.00 million
Objective. The Line of Credit component of the Project will provide financing for eligible, financially
viable projects of creditworthy private enterprises duly registered and operating in Republika Srpska,
including artisans. The subloans will finance investments and/or incremental, permanent working capital.
Eligibility of RS Businesses. The subloans would be extended to creditworty private borrowers. To be
eligible, enterprises must have at least 65 percent of private equity, and should be duly registered with tax
authorities. They should be active in manufacturing, food production or agro-processing, or in related
services. Enterprises will be required to demonstrate that they are creditworthy and have prior operating
experience in the activity to be financed, preferably for at least two years. Final deneficiaries would be
required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than three-to-one (defined as total debt, including the
subloan, divided by registered equity) and minimum debt service coverage ratio fo 1.25 (defined as cash
eamings after all operating expenses before interest and principal due divided by principal and interest
payments). They should have sufficient working capital, including subloan proceeds, to meet all existing
and projected financial obligations in a timely manner.
- 33 -



Under the Operating Guidelines, enterprises with owners/shareholders, directors, or managers who have
criminal records or who have been indicted for any felony will not be eligible. PFIs are expected to ensure
that no subloans will be made available to such enterprises. The CLS would verify that no suboans have
been made available to such enterprises. If the CLS concludes that the rule has been breached, it would
call the subloan to be promptly repaid.
Eligibility of Projects. Private borrowers are expected to have a significant equity stake in the respective
enterprise and to be ready to finance from own funds at least 25 percent of the subproject's cost, in order to
ensure their serious interest in the subproject's success. Sub-loans would finance investments, repair or
modernization, and/or incremental permanent working capital. Proceeds would be used for equipment and
raw materials, repairs to facilities and minor construction (not to exceed EUR75,000). Thorough
appraisal of borrower's financial condition and prospects and of subproject's viability would be required.
Each subloan application would be accompanied by a business plan, a balance sheet and an income
statement, and cash-flow projections. Subprojects would be required to have an expected financial rate of
return of at least 15 percent. (Calculations of the economic rates of return will not be required for as long
as the Currency Board arrangements are in place). Subprojects would also need to meet appropriate
environmental guidelines, acceptable to the Bank. Borrowers should be able and ready to provide enough
collateral to support the sub-loan.
PFI Sub-loan Terms. Funds will be on-lent through participating financial intermediaries (PFIs). PFI
Subloans would be extended on a first-come, first-served basis. A PFI would be allowed to borrow up to
50 percent of the total available funds. The decision on whether to extend a subloan will be left to the PFIs.
The subsidiary finance to PFIs will be extended back-to-back to PFIs' subloans to final beneficiaries with
the same amount, maturity and grace period. All subloans will be denominated in EUR, including subloan
service and interest charges. The terms and conditions will be the following:
*      Investment loans to final beneficiaries will range from EUR12,500 to EUR250,000.
Larger amounts may be considered by the Bank on a case-by-case basis and would need to be
specially justified. Maturity of investment subloans will normally be up to five years, with up to
one year grace. Longer maturities would require the Bank's no-objection. The PFI subloan terms
will match the specific subproject to be financed.
*      Working capital subloans to final beneficiaries will be up to EUR125,000 with maturity of
up to three years and grace period of up to three months.
*      Interest rate on subsidiary finance to PFIs will be in the two to four percent range on an
annual basis. The interest rate arrangements will be reviewed by the Bank, from time to time, and
adjusted to actual market conditions. The PFIs interest spread would not be greater then six
percent. The spread will be reviewed by the Bank from time to time, and adjusted to reflect the
risks and the applicable market spreads. The PFIs' subloan service payments will be due
semiannually, on March I and September I each year.
*      PFIs will extend loans to final beneficiaries on market terms. PFIs would determine
principal amortization and interest payment schedules on a case-by-case basis, based on cash-flow
projections, but PFI subloan service payments would generally be made monthly. There would be
no PFI subloan prepayment penalties, and interest could be charged on a declining balance
formula.
- 34 -



*      The Development and Employment Foundation (DEF) will charge 100 basis points (one
percent) service charge in the form of a commitment fee on approved funds that are not yet
disbursed. DEF will also collect an interest spread of 100 basis points on disbursed and
outstanding amounts.
Currency Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Credit Risk The PFI sub-loans would be denominated in EUR and
the borrowing enterprises will assume the currency risk. The currency risk would be limited, as Bosnia and
Herzegovina maintains the Currency Board arrangements. The interest rate risk will also be limited due to
IDA funding. PFIs will assume the full credit risk on all PFI sub-loans that they have financed under the
project.
On-lending Mechanism. PFI subloans will be made based on an application of a PFI to extend a PFI
subloan to an eligible client (i.e., beneficiary) for eligible project. Sub-loans financed from IDA funds will
be extended back-to-back to PFIs' loans to their clients. The decision to extend a subloan will be made by
the PFIs based on analysis of clients' creditworthiness and projects' viability. The necessary analysis will
be performed by PFIs. The CLS, operating under the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF),
will evaluate each PFI's application to ensure that banks' sub-loan appraisal and approval practices
conform with the Operating Guidelines, as agreed for the Project, and with principles of sound banking. If
below the free limit, the loan will also require a prior review and a no-objection by the Bank.
The Bank may establish, in cooperation with DEF, a free limit for experienced PFIs which: i) are familiar
with Bank procedures; and ii) have a proven track record of sound credit decisions. The free limit per
subloan for a participating bank may not exceed one percent of its capital. The total amount of subloans
extended to a PFI may not exceed 75 percent of PFIs capital and/or 50 percent of the total amount
available for on-lending under the project.
Once the subloan has been approved, the collateral duly registered and the PFI subloan agreement signed
between the beneficiary and the PFI, and between the PFI and DEF, the PFI will be allowed to withdraw
on a special account related to the subproject financed up to the half of the PFI subloan amount but no
more the EUR100,000 for PFIs will full qualification and EUR50,000 for PFIs with partial qualification.
The disbursement process will conform to the Bank's disbursement procedures.
Repayment Arrangements. The PFIs are required to repay interest and principal semiannually, on March
1 and September 1 of each year. The PFIs are required to make payments to DEF regardless of whether or
not they have received payments from their borrowers. A PFI that is delinquent in its payments will be
charged penalty interest on the outstanding balance of interest and principal, until payments are again
current. Payment arrears are a ground for suspension of participation. PFIs which fail to make payments
to DEF and remain delinquent for 90 days shall be referred to regulatory authorities and legal counsel for
appropriate action.
Each time a principle or interest due on a PFI sub-loan is late, or a PFI has classified the respective subloan
as substandard, doubtful or loss, the PFI bank will be required to provide to the CLS a report on the
performance of the sub-loan, the reason for adverse classification and the subsequent developments, and the
up-dated financial condition of the borrower. The PFI would agree to keep the credit history of the
borrower on file and to fumish it to any authorized central credit reporting agency which may develop.
Access to the Credit Line. Access to participation will be open for all banks which are interested in
participation, providing that they are able to meet the agreed eligibility criteria.
- 35 -



Expression of Interest. Banks, which are interested in participation, will submit their application to DEF.
DEF will inform the RS Banking Agency about bank's expression of interest. Thereafter, DEF will collect
from an interested banks an external audit for the preceding year, which must have been prepared by
reputable auditors acceptable to the Bank and according to international accounting standards. Banks that
wish to be considered for participation and all participating banks will be required to:
.  Provide a written confirmation to the RS Banking Agency allowing the qualified Bank's
representatives on a need-to-know basis access to privileged and confidential information necessary to
appraise whether the bank meets and/or continues to meet the agreed qualification criteria;
* Agree to undertake annual external audits by reputable auditors satisfactory to the Bank and
according to international accounting and auditing standards; and
*  Agree to devote adequate resources to the project, to appoint specific staff that will be responsible
for placement of Bank funds, to maintain adequately staffed credit and risk committee, and to join
available staff training.
The Bank will appraise all interested banks in order to establish whether they indeed meet the agreed
qualification criteria. All participating banks will be expected to fully meet the qualification criteria within
the time period provided for project implementation. The final decision on banks' qualifications for
participation will be made by the Bank. (Over time, the Bank intends to pass-on the qualification function
to a third party.) The bank will be informed in writing whether it was able to pass the appraisal, which are
the weaknesses that must be addressed for the bank to participate and what would be the conditions of its
participation.
PFI Eligibility Criteria. To qualify for particitaion under the Project, an interested commercial bank
should met the following criteria:
*  Licensed and at least two years of operations;
*  In good standing with the Banking Agency (i.e., meet all pertinent prudential and other applicable
laws and regulations) and remain in compliance with RS regulations;
*  Majority privately owned and its owners and mangers must be considered "fit and proper";
*  Maintain at least the minimum capital, of which at least half as Tier 1 capital, and the risk-based
capital adequacy of at least 12 percent;
*  Maintain adequate liquidity, as required and attested by the Agency;
*  Classify its assets and off-balance sheet credit risk exposures and make adequate provisions. A
participating bank must not have more then 35 percent of criticized assets (i.e., classified as
substandard, doubtful and loss);
  Has positive profitability and maintains value of its capital;
*  Has qualified and experienced management, well defined policies and written procedures for
management of all financial risks; and
- 36 -



.  Has adequate intemal audits and controls and management information systems.
There is mutual agreement with the authorities that the private sector needs to have access to credit, while
providing a strong incentive to the banking sector to significantly strengthen its financial condition and
institutional capacity. As long as there is a credible commitment to banking reform in the RS entity, the
Bank would allow limited participation in the project, on a temporary basis, to certain banks if they are
able to demonstrate that:
(i) Any deviations from the full qualification criteria do not constitute significant financial risk as
regards participation in the project (especially with respect to debt servicing capacity); and
(ii) There is a credible and specific action plan (that includes a set of time-bound and monitorable
performance indicators) in place to meet the full qualification criteria within no more than 18 months.
Access to Bank funding for banks with provisional participation will be limited to 25 percent of bank's
capital until such time when they would be able to fully meet the qualification criteria. For provisional
participation in the project, a bank would have proven its acceptability if its debt service capacity related to
its participation in the Project is not impaired and demonstrate that:
  It is licensed in RS and at least 12 months in operations.
*  It is majority privately owned and its owners and mangers are considered to be "fit and proper".
*  It does not breach in a significant way the key prudential regulations issued by the Banking
Agency, or an agreement with the Banking Agency should be in place indicating measures that need to
be taken for a bank to meet the key prudential regulations and a time-bound action plan to accomplish
this.
* It has at least minimum capital, or it should provide a program, satisfactory to the Government and
the Bank, of planned capitalization to be able to meet the minimum capital requirements.
*  It has generally satisfactory liquidity, or it should provide a program, satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank, on measures that the bank will take to be able to meet the liquidity
requirements.
*  It has at least rudimentary capacity to appraise loans and to administer loans. It should agree to
technical assistance to build the capacity to the level deemed necessary by the Bank.
*  It has at least rudimentary internal audits and controls and management information systems. It
should agree to technical assistance to build the capacity to the level deemed necessary by the Bank.
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). Before signing the Subsidiary Credit Agreement, a bank which
is not able to meet the full qualification criteria but which is an acceptable risk to the Bank for the
temporary access, should sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the Government specifying a
time-bound action plan with measures, satisfactory to the Bank, that the bank will take be able to meet the
qualification criteria in the period not exceeding 18 months. The MOU would include the following points:
Regular progress reports regarding the time-bound action plan will be prepared by the bank and
- 37 -



provided to the Bank twice per year (at mid-year and end-year) to allow for Bank's evaluation and
monitoring.
* The bank shall provide to the Bank all relevant reports prepared by the bank for the Banking
Agency prior to Bank's periodic evaluation of progress made on the bank's time-bound action plan.
These reports will be specified in the MOU.
* The bank shall provide to the Bank a copy of the on-site supervision report prepared by the
Banking Agency, as soon as such a report is received by the bank.
* Technical assistance consultants, if and when engaged, may be required to report to the Bank
directly on bank's progress related to fulfillment of the time-bound action plan.
* The Bank reserves the right to ask for additional related information, where appropriate.
Once the Memorandum of Understanding between an interested bank and the Government has been signed,
the Bank will arrange (on a best effort basis) for the necessary technical assistance.  The financial
condition of all banks will be appraised twice per year. The Bank will provide a report to management
specifying progress achieved towards being able to meet the qualification criteria is satisfactory to the
Bank. The Bank will also continue to provide direct technical inputs to the bank.
Continuous Meeting of Qualification Criteria. Once qualified, banks will be expected to continue to
meet the qualification criteria at all times. Banks which have joined under the partial qualification and
signed an MOU specifying the agreed institution building program will be expected to make the agreed
progress according to the agreed timetable. The Bank will check the financial viability of participating
banks during supervision missions, normally two times per year, based on mid-year un-audited financial
statements and on external audits at year-end. For monitoring of whether the qualified banks continue to
meet the qualification criteria, the Banking Agency may assist the Bank in collection of pertinent
information necessary to appraise whether the bank continues to meet the agreed participation criteria.
The Banking Agency is expected to inform the Bank when a qualified bank breaches any of the established
prudential regulations, including specific information as to the degree and nature of breach. It is also
expected to provide information of major issues noted during the last on-site supervision of participating
banks.
Suspension and Exit. Suspension denotes an act where a bank (i.e., a PFI), either with full or with limited
participation, looses its right to utilize Bank funds for future commitments. The PFI may be re-accepted
once the problems that has prompted its suspension have been adequately addressed. The exit strategies
for PFIs would be the following:
.  If a PFI is found to breach the established rules, its further participation will be suspended until
such time when the problem has been addressed.
* If a PFI utilizes Bank funds for ineligible expenditures or does not obey Bank procedures, the
erring bank would be asked to clean its mistakes by a certain deadline, or else refund to the Special
Account all Bank-financed amounts that have been improperly used.
. A PFI with partial qualification, which diligently follows the agreed action plan and Bank's advise,
should be able to meet the full qualification criteria within a period not longer then 18 months. The
Bank will have the right to suspend a PFI which is not able to fully meet the qualification criteria after
- 38 -



24 months, which fails to make any progress on its time-bound action plan as detailed in the MOU over
discrete six months periods, or whose financial condition deteriorates after it has joined the program.
.  In cases when a PFI has become insolvent, it will be given a deadline to improve its capital
position, or else the Bank-funded credit portfolio will be moved to a PFI which continues to meet the
criteria. Such PFI will be selected on a competitive basis. The insovent PFI will be suspended.
*  In cases when it has been established beyond reasonable doubt that a PFI's owners or managers are
not "fit and proper", the PFI will be given a deadline to remove such owners or managers and appoint
the ones that are "fit and proper", or else the Bank-funded credit portfolio will be moved to a PFI which
continues to meet the criteria. Such PFI will be selected on a competitive basis.
Prior Review. A prior review and no-objection by the Bank will be required for all PFI subloans until
such time when a PFI has proven that it has become familiar with Bank procedures and exercises sound
judgment when approving and supervising its loans. At such time, a free limit may be established. The
free limit will be established on a bank-by-bank basis.
Project Component 2 - US$2.80 million
The technical assistance component would include subloans to RS banks (TA sublaons) to improve their
institutional capacity and/or banking technology. Subloans may also be extended to the Banking Agency
and to the Banking Association for projects that are expected to have a positive impact on the banking
sector or to stimulate banking reforms. The Bank would attempt to raise additional technical assistance
funding by donors, which would be primarily used to fund the programs of the Banking Agency and the
Banking Association.
Eligibility of Banks. The TA subloans would be extended to PFIs and to other interested, credit worthy
private banks. The creditworthiness of banks which are not PFIs will be determined based on their capital
adequacy, asset quality and overall financial condition. All TA borrowers would need to be in good
standing with the Banking Agency. The Banking Agency will also be eligible for TA subloans.
Eligibility of Projects for TA Financing. The TA subloans to banks would finance: i) consulting
assistance necessary to strengthen institutional capacity of the respective banking institution, especially its
capacity to identify, appraise, price and manage financial and operational risks; ii) consulting assistance
necessary to address any of the issues which threaten or may worsen the financial condition or capital
adequacy of the respective bank; iii) training necessary to improve any of its banking functions or any of its
financial and/or operational risk management functions; and iv) investments related to the improvement of
banking technology in the areas related to the improvement of bank's capacity to appraise and/or manage
its financial and operational risks. More detailed description of technical assistance that will be eligible for
funding is included in Annex 12.
Eligible technical asssitance projects of the RS Banking Agency include: i) assistance for application of
prudential regulations and accounting frameworks consistent with Basle Committee recommendations or
comparable international standards; ii) introduction of new examination techniques concerning on-site
inspections and/or enhanced off-site surveillance; iii) development of risk management capacity and early
warning systems; iv) development of peer reviews and trend analysis; or v) staff tarining.
Eligible technical assistance projects of the Banking Association include: i) assitance to establish a Bankers
Training Centre; or ii) assistance to help establish key functions of a typical banking association.
- 39 -



TA Sub-loan Terms. The TA subloans would be requested by PFIs and other eligible banks and extended
on a first-come, first-served basis. All TA subloans will be denominated in EUR, including subloan service
and interest charges. The terms and conditions will be the following:
0 TA subloans will range from EUR25,000 to EUR125,000. Larger amounts may be considered by
the Bank on a case-by-case basis and would need to be specially justified.
*  Maturity of TA subloans will normally be up to three years, with up to six months of grace.
Longer maturities would require the Bank's no-objection.
. Interest rate on TA subloans to PFIs will minimum two percent per annum. The interest rate
arrangements will be reviewed by the Bank, from time to time, and adjusted as needed.
*  The DEF will charge 100 basis points (one percent) service charge in the form of a commitment fee
on approved funds that are not yet disbursed. The DEF will also collect an interest spread of 100 basis
points on disbursed and outstanding amounts.
Currency Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Credit Risk. Sub-loans would be denominated in EUR and the
borrowing bank will assume the currency risk. The Government will assume the credit risk on TA
recipients.
TA Lending Mechanism. The TA subloans to banks would be extended by DEF on the basis of an
application made by an interested bank. The application would explain the intended purpose of the bank's
institutional development project for which the funding is being sought, as well as the expected effects of
technical assistance or banking technology improvements on bank's financial condition and market position.
The subloans would be extended on a first-come, first-served basis. The decision to extend a TA subloan
will be made by DEF, in consultation with the Bank (and the Banking Agency, when applicable). The
decision will be based on analysis of applicant's creditworthiness and the relevance of the requested
technical assistance in terms of bank's strategy and institutional development program, in the content of
addressing certain systemic or banking market issues and/or for participation in the project.
Once the subloan has been approved, and the TA subloan signed and effective, the bank will be allowed to
withdraw on a special account up to the half of the TA subloan amount. The disbursement process will
conform to the Bank's disbursement procedures.
- 40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Project Components                                   Local         Foreign          Total
(US$ Mil.)     (US$ Mil.)      (US$ Mil.)
Line of Credit (a)                                    3.0            7.0             10.0
Technical Assistance to the Banking Sector (b)        2.0            4.0             6.0
Total Project Cost                                    5.0            11.0            16.0
Notes:
(a) A Bank's subloan would typically cover about 70 percent of the total cost of a subproject, while the
reminder would be covered by capital investments made by final beneficiaries. Under the Emergency Pilot
Credit Project, to which the proposed project is a follow-up, the average percentage of Bank finance for
subprojects has been 40-60 percent.
(b) A Bank's technical assistance subloan would typically finance about half of the total cost of institution
building or banking technology improvement projects of the borrowing banks. The other half would be
funded by banks themselves. In addition to the IDA funded technical assistance component of US$ 2.8
million equivalent, a donor-funded contribution of US$ 1 million is expected. The donor funds will cover
assistance to the Banking Agency and to the Banking Association.
-41 -



Annex 4
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Financial Appraisal of Subprojects. Subprojects will be requested to have a minimum financial
rate of return of 15 percent. The financial rate of return will be appraised on a subproject-by-subproject
basis as part of the appraisal of eligibility of individual subprojects and borrowers. In addition, to assess
the risk, sensitivity analysis will be performed for each subproject, including sensitivity to exchange rate
devaluation, to price decreases in the expected product/services market and to increase in operating cost.
For the worse case scenario, whereby the combined negative impact of changes in the three price categories
subject to sensitivity analysis adds to 25 (say, simultaneous devaluation of 10 percent, production cost
increase by 10 percent and output price decrease by 5 percent), the subproject's financial rate of return is
expected to stay over 10 percent.
Economic Assessment. For as long as Bosnia and Herzegovina maintains a Currency Board
arrangement, economic assessment of subprojects will not be required. Otherwise, an economic assessment
will also be required for each subproject, as part of the appraisal of eligibility of individual subprojects.
Subprojects eligible for finance will be requested to have a minimum economic rate of return of 15 percent.
Appraisal of Credit Risk. Financial assessment will also include appraisal of creditworthiness of
final beneficiaries and of their capacity to bear the currency and the interest rate risks. The appraisal of
borrower's credit worthiness will include the following:
*   Appraisal of borrower's business strategy and future perspectives.
* Review of borrower's major markets, their stability and future perspectives.
* Assessment of sources of borrower's competitiveness (for example, if it is price competitiveness, is
this based on labor or on cheap raw materials) and its robustness.
* Assessment of borrower's financial condition and profitability. This will specifically include
assessment of past payment discipline.
* Risk directly undertaken by the borrower, i.e., how high is commitment to the subproject.
* Nature and value of collateral.
Indirect Benefits of Private Enterprise Finance. The 139 subloans under the EPCP were
extended to 25 townships and villages and cover 15 different subsectors of manufacturing, food production
and agro-processing. An EPCP implementation study indicated the following: 89 percent of the final
beneficiaries increased their sales by 80 percent on average after implementing the subproject and
significantly improved their profitability. There were positive tax effects. About 30 percent of the final
beneficiaries started exporting. On average, six new jobs were created for each subloan extended. There
were also positive demonstration and spill-over effects, for example, by increasing sales and profits of the
related suppliers. The benefits of the proposed project are expected to be at least at the level comparable
to that of the Emergency Pilot Credit Project (EPCP).
Appraisal of TA Subloans under the TA component. Under the TA component, appraisal
would be performed for each institutional development project presented by banks.
Indirect Benefits of TA. For the private banks, the project is expected to provide hands-on
assistance for institutional strengthening and to encourage adoption of safe and sound banking practices.
- 42 -



Participating banks are expected to follow the Bank's rigorous subproject appraisal and supervision
requirements, with analytical tools and hands-on training provided by the Bank and technical assistance
arranged as needed. More specifically, the project would:
*   Improve banks' capacity to identify, assess, price and manage banking risks. Especially important
would be the credit risk management, including banks' lending policies, appraisal of client's
creditworthiness and project economic and financial viability, lending procedures and practices,
and loan supervision and administration. The banks typically apply the same policies and
techniques to their entire portfolio. This would, in turn, increase bank's capacity to take risks.
*   Better management of credit risk is expected to result in increased bank's profitability and better
portfolio quality. This, in turn, would improve the bank's capacity to raise capital and bank's
growth prospects.
At the systemic level, the project is expected to:
*   Promote competition in credit markets through encouraging participation of new private banks.
Access to finance and terms of finance for the private sector are expected to improve.
*   Banks would be required to meet, at all times, strict eligibility criteria related to their capital
adequacy, asset quality, financial condition and good standing with the Banking Agency. This and
the improved risk management capacity is expected to contribute to improved safety and
soundness of the banking system.
*   Technical assistance component would help the banks to address the areas of institutional
weaknesses and to manage real or anticipated problems, and this would also increase system
stability.
*   Insistence on good standing with the Banking Agency would contribute to increasing the Agency's
authority, which is a critical issue in banking supervision in RS.
The project would also help with integration into regional financial markets, by ensuring that the banks
follow international standard practices, and by improving their correspondent banking relationships. A
bank, which is able to meet the strict participation criteria established by the Bank, is likely to be regarded
as an acceptable partner by regional and international banks. This will likely open doors for additional
funding sources, at least for the foreign trade finance.
- 43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Implementation
Period
FY2003             FY2004              FY2005
Line of Credit                      2.0                4.0                 4.0
Technical Assistance                2.0                3.0                 1.0
Total Project Cost      4.0                7.0                 5.0
IDA                                 2.5                4.0                 3.5
Local Funding (Banks and            1.0                2.5                 1.5
Enterprises)
Donors                              0.5                0.5                 0.0
Total Project Financing     4.0                7.0                 5.0
- 44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Procurement
Procurement arrangements are as follows: Procurements will be the responsibility of final beneficiaries.
Procurements of up to US$250,000 per contract will use local commercial practices. Procurements for
contracts of over US$250,000 will use the Bank's International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure.
Procurements on the basis of a single source would be available on an exceptional basis, if so approved by
the Bank. Sole-source procurements, if any, will be for proprietary goods, subject to the condition that
procurements by beneficiaries would exclude their affiliates and connected parties.
Procurements will be supervised by the PFIs, and by the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF)
and the Bank. (The DEF is highly experienced, as it has been responsible for implementation of a number
of Bank projects, including Local Development Project, Local Initiatives project, Community Development
Project, etc.) Commnercial Practices of the final beneficiaries have been reviewed by the Bank in April 2000
and found to be adequate. Similar reviews have been undertaken earlier, in the context of the credit line
under the Emergency Recovery Project (FY96) and also found to be adequate. A procurement audit will
also be executed at the end of this project for which a consulting company would be selected under the LCS
method. (The necessary funding would be provided under the operating cost category).
For procurements under the Commercial Practice procedures: (i) the PFIs will continue to be responsible
for prior review of all procurements of their respective final beneficiaries. The PFI's reviews will take
place before the PFI executes the first procurement-related payment; (ii) the Credit Line Section of the
DEF will continue to be responsible for review of all Commercial Practice procurements to ensure that the
PFIs and final beneficiaries adhere to the agreed procurement methods and guidelines. The DEF's
procurement review will take place at the time when a PFI requires to withdraw funds related to the
respective subproject and/or procurement, and/or when a PFI instructs the DEF to directly execute the first
payment related to the respective subproject and/or procurement; and (iii) the IDA will supervise adherence
on a sampling basis (approximately one in five contracts will be reviewed) during supervision missions.
The DEF has hired an additional, experienced procurement person to be able to handle the additional
workload under the proposed project (and the Privatization Technical Assistance Project).
Consultants' services would be procured under contracts awarded to consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. Consultants would
be selected based on quality and cost and in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers published by the Bank in 1997 with revisions in 1999. The provisions of the Guidelines
requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection process, proposals, evaluation
reports and contracts would not apply to consulting contracts with individuals with the contract values of
less then US$50,000 and to consulting contracts with firms with the contract values of less then
US$100,000, except for the terms of reference and criteria for consultants' evaluation. Bank Procurement
Guidelines and Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers will
be distributed to the DEF and to all PFIs. Immediately after credit effectiveness, a refresher seminar on
Commercial Procurement practices and on procurement of consulting services will be organized by the
Bank for the DEF and for all accredited PFIs. The DEF will be required to repeat such seminars from time
to time, and no less then once per year, and will be available to provide advise on Commercial Practices
(acceptable to the Bank) to final beneficiaries and PFIs, if and when requested.
- 45 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurements of up to US$250,000 per contract will use commercial practices. Contracts for goods are
not expected to exceed US$250,000. However, if there is any, it will follow the Bank's International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure. As far as practical, commercial practices should obtain at least three
competitive quotations locally and/or internationally. The use of Commercial Practices is justifiable
because the proceeds of the IDA credit and the resulting sub-loans will be used only by privately owned
enterprises (more than 65 percent ownership in private hands), which carry out their domestic and foreign
purchases based on a competitive price basis. Certain equipment, components, parts and materials are
available locally on a competitive basis. Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees are of
proprietary nature, or need to be compatible with other installed equipment, will be procured on a single
source basis through Direct Contracting. The Bank will specifically agree for each case that the Direct
Contracting is to be used.
Table A - Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method (1)                  Total Cost
ICB          NCB        Other (2)     N.B.F.
Line of Credit                 0.0          0.0         10.0         0.0          10.0
(0.0)        (0.0)        (7.0)        (0.0)        (7.0)
Technical Assistance           0.0          0.0         2.8          3.0          5.8
(0.0)        (0.0)        (2.8)        (0.0)       (2.8)
Incremental Operating Cost     0.0          0.0          0.2          0.0          0.2
(0.0)        (0.0)        (0.2)        (0.0)        (0.2)
Total     0.0          0.0          13.0         3.0          16.0
(0.0)        (0.0)       (10.0)        (0.0)       (10.0)
(1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
(2) Includes civil works limited to maximum US$70,000 and maximum 30% of the total subloan.
-46 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods
and Prior Review
Expenditure   Contract   Procurement    Contract
Category      Value       Method      Subject to
Threshold                Prior Review
(US$
thousand)
Subloans        over 250      ICB          All.
under the
Credit Line
Subloans       below 250   Commercial       No
under the                   Practices
Credit Line
Subloans      Over $100 for  QCBS          All
under the        firms
TA
Component
Subloans      below $50 for  Based on    TORs and
under the TA individuals and  IC/LCS/CQ  selection
Component    below $100 for            criteria for all
firms                   contracts
-47 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of three years, which includes
six months for the completion of accounts and the submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no
standard disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast is based on the
Bank's experience with financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, especially Emergency Pilot Credit Project. The Credit closing date is estimated to be June
30, 2005.
Disbursements from the IDA credit will follow the transaction-based method, i.e., the traditional Bank
procedures including reimbursements with full documentation, Statements of Expenditure (SOE), direct
payments and special commitments. Table C below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each category and the Percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure  Amount in   Amount in   Financing
Category      SDR         US$      Percentage
Equivalent
Subloans to   5,530,000   7,000,000  up to 100% of
Private                             eligible
Enterprises                         expenditures
Technical     2,310,000   2,800,000  up to 90% of
Assistance                          eligible
expenditures
Incremental    160,000     200,000  up to 75% of
Operating                           eligible
Cost                                expenditures
Total 8,000,000   10,000,000 expenditure
Disbursements of the Credit proceeds will be administered by DEF. The Credit is expected to be fully
disbursed over three years. The Bank would finance: (i) up to 100 percent of eligible expenditures for
subloans; (ii) up to 90 percent of eligible expenditures for consulting services, training and information
technology (all net of taxes); and (iii) up to 75 percent of eligible incremental operation expenditures for
DEF. The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the IDA
Credit account would be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements from the Credit proceeds would be administered by DEF in Republika Srpska. DEF will be
responsible for retaining the supporting documentation for statements of expenditures (SOE) and making
them available to IDA supervision missions, as well as to the auditors. Withdrawals from the credit
account on the basis of statements of expenditures may be required for expenditures: (a) for PFI subloans
(subsidiary loans) with a value of less then US$250,000 equivalent with procurements under local
commercial practices; (b) for TA subloans, including consultants' services contracts costing less then
US$50,000 for individual consultants and US$100,000 equivalent for firms; and (c) for incremental
- 48 -



operating cost. All other documentation will be submitted with supporting documentation with the
withdrawal application.
Special account:
A special account will be established in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. Initially, authorized
allocation will be limited to an amount equivalent to EUR 500,000 until such time that the total disbursed
amount will be equivalent to SDR 700,000. Thereafter, the authorized allocation will be increased to EUR
1,000,000. The DEF will manage the special account. Monthly replenishment applications will be
forwarded to the Bank with reconciled bank statements and other appropriate documentation. The DEF
will also forward financial management reports on a monthly basis.
- 49 -



Annex 6.b
Financial Management Assessment Report
as of October 2001 (in new format)
1.   Executive Summary and Conclusions
Bosnia and Herzegovina is an emerging post-conflict country with weak public financial management
capacities and high perceived levels of institutional corruption. The Private Sector Credit Project is to be
managed by the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF). DEF has extensive experience with
many recent Bank financed projects, including Local Development Project, Local Initiatives Projects (both
first and second projects), Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project, Social Sector Technical
Assistance Credit, Community Development Project and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit.
A review of the financial management arrangements for the project was undertaken between August and
October 2001 to determine whether the financial management arrangements within DEF are acceptable to
the Bank.   It has been  concluded that DEF currently satisfies the Bank's minimum  financial
management requirements. The DEF's financial management capacity is considered capable of
satisfactorily recording all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable
financial statements and safeguarding the entities' assets. DEF is subject to auditing arrangements
acceptable to the Bank. A summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management Assessment      Rating                   Comments
1. Implementing Entity             Satisfactory  DEF implements many Bank's projects
2. Funds Flow                       Satisfactory  Same funds flow as previous project (EPCP)
3. Staffing                          Satisfactory Experienced financial team
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Satisfactory Good financial manuals and policies
5. Internal Audit                       NA      No reliance placed on internal audit
6. External Audit                    Satisfactory The project will be audited under a country-wide
general audit agreement. DEF is to be audited
annually
7. Reporting and Monitoring          Satisfactory  DEF prepares reliable financial reports
8. Information Systems               Satisfactory Using Scala accounting system
Overall Financlal Management Rating  Satisfactory
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files. A report on the
Review of Financial Management System is included in the Project Implementation Plan and in the project
files.
2.     Project Description Summary
The project comprises two components, including:
a)     Line of credit of US$7 million to be extended through participating banks to creditworthy private
enterprises for viable projects. The financing will include investments and/or incremental, permanent
working capital in industry, agro-processing and the related service sectors.
b)     Technical Assistance of US$2.8 million to be extended to participating banks and/or to banks
interested in participation for institutional development programs or to address specific issues, and/or for
improvements of banking technology, and/or for training. Additional donor funding would be raised for
- 50 -



technical assistance to the Banking Agency (the Agency), and/or for Banking Association to improve their
institutional capacity.
The Intemational Development Association (IDA) would make funds available to the State of Bosnia
Herzegovina under the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), goveming the terms and conditions of the
IDA credit and specifying the project. The State of Bosnia Herzegovina would on-lend the funds on IDA
terms to Republika Srpska, based on the Subsidiary Finance Agreement (SFA) with terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. In addition, IDA and Republika Srpska would sign a Project Agreement (PA),
describing the project in more details. The PA will also define the principal terms and conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) which are to be entered into by Republika Srpska and the participating
commercial banks (or participating financial institutions or PFIs), as well as the terms and conditions of the
sub-loans which are to be extended by the participating banks to their enterprises borrowers in RS.
3.   Country Financial Management Issues
A draft Country Financial Management Assessment for Bosnia and Herzegovina was completed in August
2001. This assessment provides the indicative country financial risks, vis-a-vis, the overall environment,
an accountability culture at the government level and status of accounting profession in the country. The
draft CFAA identified issues of extremely weak public sector financial management, including public
sector budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing. The CFAA also identified an environment of
pervasive corruption at all levels of the economy.
The goveming system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) is complex and comprises fourteen govemment
units with respective legislative and fiscal powers and Office of High Representative (OHR). These are:
the State of BiH (State); Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation); Republic of Srpska (RS);
Brcko District (self-administrative unit overseen by OHR), and ten cantons (Canton) of the Federation.
Below the canton level, there are traditional local govemments-cities and municipalities. Summaries of key
financial management developments in BiH are as follows:
*      Relatively new laws and regulations.
-      New accounting and auditing standards, which are based on International Accounting Standards
(1ASs) and Intemational Standards of Auditing (ISA), are developed and implemented. Most (25 out of 32
standards passed to date) of the Federation BiH's standards were only adopted in 1998 became effective
from 1st January 1999 and RS's standards (33 standards passed) were only adopted in 1999 and became
effective from I st January 2000. In both cases, implementation has been slow.
Laws and standards are to be fully implemented by professionals who are generally unfamiliar with
the IASs, NASs, ISAs. They require additional training and education, and time to become familiar with
the accounting and auditing requirements.
Relatively new accounting bodies in BiH. Under the Law on Auditing, the FBiH Institute of
Accountants and Auditors (IAA) was established by the Parliament of the Federation; and under the
Accounting Law (1999), the Association of Accountants and Auditors (AAA) in RS was established in
1999. The main functions of these bodies are to: (i) determine and issue the Codex of Principles and
Professional Ethics for Auditors, (ii) organize and perform auditors' education and training, and issue
professional certifications for auditors; (iii) issue work permits and keep a register of auditing enterprises,
(iv) determine and issue accounting and auditing standards and temporary standards, and provide
interpretations and explanations of those standards, and (v) pass proposals of binding instructions in the
- 51 -



area of accounting to be enacted by the Parliament.
*      In addition to these statutory accounting bodies, there are currently new self-regulatory
organizations, which provide training program and free consulting advises to members.
*      Insufficient number of accredited accountants and licensed auditors in BiH. Intensive training and
education program in capacity building to increase the quantity of accountants in the country is needed.
A limited number of international accounting firms present in FBiH and RS, mostly representative
offices.
*      SAIs, established in late 2000 or early 2001, have limited resources and lack experience in
financial audit.
*      Weak budget management system despite substantial progress in the past year. Much remain to be
done in both Entities and State to consolidate and develop a well functioning budget system.
*      Public Sector Accounting Reform Project, supported by USAID, is introducing new computerized
accounting system for the new treasury, by end 2001.
Country Portfolio Financial Management - Adequate financial management in the bank's financed
PlUs, but significant weaknesses in the financial management were identified for the power (revenue
earning) companies. Therefore major improvement in the financial management of the power companies is
required.
Overall, the accounting and audit activities are moving from the development of standards to the
implementation of standards. The financial management capacity in the country is currently low, but it is
improving. To minimize financial risk, the Bank would need to maintain the current "ring fencing" of
financial resources in Bank projects in order to provide the appropriate fiduciary safeguards. The draft
CFAA has, however, identified a medium to longer-term goal of mainstreaming project management into
Ministries and Department. The immediate objectives are to consolidate PIUs and refrain from the creation
of new PIUs.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination
Implementation of the Project would be undertaken by DEF, which has extensive experience with
Bank-financed projects. DEF would be responsible for management of all project activities, including:
on-lending to eligible PFIs and PFI performance monitoring and supervision; management of consultant
services and impact monitoring and evaluation; and implementation of a transparent financial management
system. DEF would also be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. It would
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial
management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. A new Credit Line Section (CLS)
will be re-established, within DEF, to support implementation of the Project.
DEF has met the minimum financial management requirements acceptable to the Bank during the
implementation of the Local Development Project (LDP) in September 1999, the Pilot Emergency Labor
Redeployment Project (PELRP) in May 2000, SOTAC in September 2000, Community Development
- 52 -



Project, Local Initiatives Project II, and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit in 2001. Detailed
discussions were carried out with the existing staff of DEF (director and financial manager) explaining the
financial management requirements, including intemal controls, accounting, reporting, staff, budgeting, and
auditing. Financial management and intemal organization controls were reviewed by visiting DEF to
evaluate the presence of capable employees, their educational and experience levels, existence of written
standards and procedures including clear responsibilities and levels of authority, audit arrangement and
financial management and reporting system.
Conclusion:  DEF has an effective organization structure, which manages revenue generating and
non-revenue earning projects efficiently.
4.2    Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
DEF has an Executive Director, a Finance Manager, and two Accountants. The Finance Manager is
familiar with financial and accounting systems, as well as with the Bank requirements. He would be
responsible for all aspects of the financial management and accounting, including managing the special
accounts, maintaining books of accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions and would be the liaison
between the Entities under the sub-projects. DEF had agreed to assign one of the two accountants to look
after the proposed project. Additional staff will be recruited, as necessary.
The new accountant/bookkeeper in the new Credit Line Section will be responsible for recording the
financial flows of the project (loans, interest calculation and repayments), the financial administration of
the proposed project, including preparing monthly sub-loan reports to the Bank, and authorizing and
arranging all project disbursements with the Finance Department. This accountant is acceptable to the
Bank.
Conclusion: While the finance manager and accountants are acceptable to the Bank, DEF may need to
recruit additional accounting staff for additional projects, including for the proposed project.
4.3    Accounting and Internal Controls
DEF has extensive experience with Bank financed projects. It has implemented several Bank-financed
projects. It has established key intemal control mechanisms on the application and use of funds.
Furthermore, it has completed financial manuals for several bank projects, describing the intemal controls,
including adequate authorization and segregation of duties, control checklist, regular reconciliation, etc.
There is proper segregation of duties between the CLS and the Finance Department.
Conclusion: The accounting and internal control risk is mitigated by insisting on the completion of
financial manuals prior to Board Presentation. The Financial Manual for the Project has been completed
and is satisfactory to the Bank.
- 53 -



4.4    Computerized Accounting Systems
The DEF's computerized accounting system would be used for the project financial management and
accounting but not the loan administration, which is the function of the CLS. During the implementation of
the LDP, DEF implemented computerized accounting system (Scala) that complies with international
accounting standards and meets the financial reporting requirements. The additional license, bought by
DEF during the financial management assessment for PELRP, complies with the local accounting reporting
requirements, especially the chart of accounts for the public sector, and also would meet the needs of the
Bank. The accounting system meets the minimum reporting requirement of the Bank capable of producing
FMRs in accordance with the LACI requirements.
Conclusion: DEF has acceptable accounting systems.
4.5    Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
This review relates to the audited project financial statements and management letters for the year ended
December 31, 2000 and for the period ended September 30, 2000, for the four projects implemented by
DEF in RS (including the Local Development Project, Local Initiative Project, Emergency Demobilization
and Reintegration Project, and Emergency Public Works and Employment Project). The auditors gave
clean audit opinions on the audited financial statements for these projects. There were no serious
accounting issues and controls weaknesses reported by the auditors.
Conclusion: DEF was expected to submit its first audited financial statements for the year ended 31
December 2000 to the Bank. This has been accomplished and there were no serious issues/weaknesses
reported by the auditors.
4.6    Planning and Budgeting
DEF has good capacity in planning and budgeting. DEF has recent experience in planning and budgeting
during the implementation of the Local Development Project and PELRP. The 2000 and 2001 budgets for
LDP and PELRP have been properly prepared, in accordance with the FMR format (disbursement
categories, components and activities, financiers, account codes, and by month) and they are acceptable to
the Bank's project requirements.
Conclusion: DEF will prepare by May 31, 2002, a detailed budget for the first year of implementation of
PSCP. It will also provide financial projections demonstrating that it can cover all operating costs from
operating income and that the income is sufficient to satisfy the counterpart financing requirement for the
project.
4.7    Financial Manual
DEF has completed comprehensive and adequate financial manuals for LDP and PELRP. The internal
control procedures for their current system were reviewed and found to be adequate.
- 54 -



Conclusion: The financial manual has been reviewed by the Bank and is satisfactory.
4.8    Overall Conclusion
It is concluded that DEF has a financial management system which will meet the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements because:
DEF has implemented acceptable computerized accounting system.
* DEF has written several financial manuals describing the accounting policies and procedures,
internal controls, delegation of responsibilities and authorities, transaction flows, including the
Financial Management Manual for the Project.
* DEF has an accounting/finance department, consisting of a finance manager and two accountants,
which is acceptable to the Bank.
5.     Accounting and Financial Flows
DEF would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all activities
of the project. The DEF will need to document the accounting transaction information flow for accounting
purposes, in particular the line of credit and technical assistance:
*   Line of Credit funds will be on-lent to commercial banks. Sub-loans will be made based on an
application of a bank accredited to participate under the credit line, which wishes to extend a loan for
eligible private beneficiary and eligible project. Sub-loans financed from IDA funds will be extended
back-to-back to banks' loans to final borrowers. The decision to extend a sub-loan will be made based
on analysis of client's creditworthiness and project viability perforned by the participating bank. The
DEF's CLS will evaluate each application to ensure that banks' sub-loan appraisal and approval
practices conform with the Operating Guidelines, as agreed for the Project, and with principles of
sound banking. If below the free limit, the loan will also require a prior review and a no-objection by
the Bank. The participating banks will do the review and submit their analysis for DEF's approval.
The authorization must be prepared by the Accountant and signed by the Finance Manager and the
Project Director.
Once a sub-loan has been approved, the collateral duly registered and the sub-loan agreement signed
between the final borrower and the PFI, and between the PFI and DEF, the PFI will be allowed to
withdraw on a special account related to the subproject financed up to the half of the PFI sub-loan
amount but no more then EUR50,000 for a PFI with provisional participation and no more then
EUR100,000 for a fully qualified PFI. The disbursement process will conform to the Bank
disbursement procedures. The PFI sub-loans will flow from the Special Account to the participating
banks, for the eligible enterprises.
Sub-loans would be denominated in EUR and the borrowing enterprises will assume any currency
risks. Participating banks will assume the full credit risk on all sub-loans that they have financed under
the project.
* Technical Assistance funds will be on-lent to commercial banks on a first-come, first-served basis.
Sub-loans will be made based on an application of a bank (both participating under the credit line and
- 55 -



other interested banks, which are found to be an acceptable credit risk). The decision to extend a
sub-loan will be made by the DEF, based on analysis of bank's creditworthiness and acceptability of
the bank's institutional development project. The TA subloans will also require a prior review and a
no-objection by the Bank.
The TA funds under this component will be used to supplement donor funds and other funds available or that
will be made available for technical assistance, to address the remaining critical needs. The technical
assistance needs of the Banking Agency and the Banking Association would be primarily addressed by donor
funds.
6.   Financial Management Reports
DEF will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds provided. It
has been agreed that the Foundation will be responsible for designing appropriate financial monitoring
reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs include:
*      Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*      Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*      Project Balance Sheet (where appropriate)
Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
*      XDR Reconciliation, including reconciliation of exchange rates movement and total credit not
spent and not committed
Physical progress report
*      Procurement report
Conclusion: By September 15, 2001, DEF has prepared draft sample FMRs incorporating all components,
categories and performance indicators, which are acceptable to the Bank.
7.     Financial Risk Analysis
From the financial management perspective, the project is considered to be a high risk project. A summary
of the consolidated risk assessment is as follows.
Risk                               Rating                    Comments
Inherent Risk
1. Country Financial Management     High     Based on draft CFAA, there is generally low
Risk                                         financial management capacity and accountability
in public sector.
2. Project Financial Management Risk  Substantial  Timely counterpart funding could be a major issue.
High financial risks with PFIs and eligible
borrowers. The DEF, which will be responsible for
implementation, is very experienced.
3. Banking sector                    High    High liquidity & credit risks in a weak RS banking
sector - relatively small & immature institutions.
4. Perceived corruption              High    Draft CFAA notes pervasive corruption at all levels of
the economy
Overall Inherent Ris   High
- 56 -



Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity            Negligible  The DEF is implementing many projects
2. Funds Flow                     Moderate
3. Staffing                        Moderate
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Moderate
5. Internal Audit                    N/A
6. External Audit                  Moderate
7. Reporting and Monitoring        Moderate
8. Information Systems             Moderate
Overall Control Risk  Moderate
During 1999 and subsequently, serious concerns have been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of
donor funds in BiH. This has been reported in the following studies: (a) The recently completed Diagnostic
Surveys of Corruption for Bosnian and Herzegovina, conducted by the World Bank., (b) The draft CFAA an
environment of pervasive corruption at all levels of the economy and governments, and (c) The 1999-2000
Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) conducted by the World Bank and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development demonstrates that BiH is among the third of transition
countries with the highest levels of state capture. Even though the project is to be implemented in a business
environment with a high rate of perceived corruption, the risk that Bank's fund will not used as intended for
financing the defined investment program is judged as acceptable by "ring-fence" the project through DEF
and the recruitment of suitably qualified accounting and procurement staff. Furthermore, the project has
identified several steps indicated below, to minimize the risk of misuse or fraud of the Bank's fund.
The disbursement of loans to participating financial institutions (PFIs) which are still considered
immature institutions. Currently there is high liquidity and credit risks of lending to PFIs in a relatively weak
banking environment in the RS. This financial risk could be mitigated by the following strategies, including:
Qualification Decisions. Access to participation will be open for well capitalized and sound banks
which are able to meet the pre-determined eligibility criteria. The World Bank will appraise all banks in
order to establish whether they indeed meet the agreed criteria. The final decision on banks'
qualifications for participation will be made by the Bank;
One eligible bank before board presentation. To ensure smooth implementation of this project,
two interested banks have been found to fully meet the eligibility criteria and additional two
substantially meet the criteria. (One was PFI was the minimum requirement before Board
Presentation);
* Continuous Meeting of Qualification Criteria. Once qualified, the banks will be expected to
continue to meet the qualification criteria at all times. The Bank will check the financial viability of
participating banks during supervision missions, but no later then two times per year, based on
mid-year unaudited financial statements, on external audits at year end and other information provided;
Suspension. Banks which have problems to meet the qualification criteria will be suspended from
participation. A participating bank may also be suspended if it is not current on its payments of interest
and principal due. A bank may also be suspended if it does not follow the agreed operation procedures.
Suspension decisions will be made jointly by DEF and the Bank;
- 57 -



*  Diversification of credit risk by limiting total credit to a single bank to no greater than 50 percent
of the total available project line of credit;
*  Limited Access to Bank funding for certain banks (which do not meet full qualification criteria but
do not constitute significant financial risk and there is a specific time-bound action plan in place to
meet the full qualification criteria within 18 months) will be limited to 25 percent of bank's capital until
such time when they would be able to fully meet the qualification criteria, and
*  Adequate Collateral. Participating banks are to ensure adequate collateral are taken for all
sub-loans.
Possible misuse of project funds by the PFIs or the DEF. The risk of misuse or fraud will be minimized
in the following ways:
* Selection of PFIs based on rigorous eligibility criteria. These criteria include the requirement to
have sound financial management systems, internal control and cash flow management capacity;
* On-lending of the proceeds of the credit to PFIs according to tightly-drafted restricted-purpose
subsidiary loan agreements that have been approved by the Bank. Funds will be used by PFIs for
expansion of their activities to eligible borrowers. The contract will contain a clause to assure the
utilization of funds according to agreed objectives, as well as a remedies section, which will include the
possibility of terminating PFIs which do not comply with agreed procedures and/or funds utilization;
*  Disbursements linked to performance - disbursements of loan tranches to PFIs are to be based on
verifiable performance measures as agreed and stipulated in contracts;
* Close monitoring and supervision by DEF. PFIs will be requested to submit: monthly progress
reports to DEF. Loans to the participating banks as well as their sub-loans to enterprises will be
monitored on the basis of information requested in the various reporting formats. Reported data will be
subject to verification during quarterly assessment visits that will be carried out by the monitoring staff
of DEF. Additional site visits will be undertaken if the monthly or quarterly reports provide any cause
for concem. Monitoring visits will also include review of client files, visits to randomly selected clients
and review of other relevant documents;
*  Intensive supervision by the Bank. Overall supervision, including procurement supervision, will
be undertaken on a periodic basis by Bank staff; and
* Effective accounting and Financial Management. The accounting and financial management of
the project focuses on the timely supervision of the inflow of principal and interest under the loans that
are financed from Project resources. This supervision will be supported by a payment-tracking system
developed by DEF.
Minimization of financial risks associated with final borrowers/enterprises. The PFIs and CLS would
adopt the following mitigation strategies to address the risks:
- 58 -



* The subloan limit has been set to no more than EUR250,000, which is about 10 percent of
minimum capital;
* For on-going business, the PFIs and DEF will ensure that there has been sound track records of
repayment history for at least in the past 2 years. Private enterprises with less then perfect repayment
history would not be eligible to borrow;
* There will be no lending to new start-up or green-field projects;
* The CLS will review all credit applications and make sure that the banks have followed the agreed
criteria for eligibility of borrowers and projects;
CLS (credit officers) will visit PFIs and final borrowers to assess the eligibility of the projects and
the borrowers for the line of credit;
The final borrowers would be expected to comply with the pre-determined minimum lending
criteria, including financial statements, proper registration documentation, adequate registered capital
of at least 1/3 of debt, business plan and financial projections, adequate collateral, etc.
The Bank will, on a sampling basis, obtain infornation on subloans and utilization and supervise
subproject implementation and utilization of Bank funds.
Unstable and weak banking sector, where spill-over might affect the project implementation. The Special
Accounts for the project would be kept abroad, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The local
project accounts would be kept at the minimum.
Country financial management risk The draft CFAA notes that there are very weak financial structures
in govemrnment departments. To compensate, expenditures for the project will be controlled and accounted
for by a separate unit within DEF.
Conclusion: The overall financial management risk of this project is considered to be high. Adequate
measures are to be taken by DEF to ensure all financial risks are identified and their mitigation measures
incorporated into the operational and financial manuals. The risks would be continually evaluated and
appropriate remedial measures taken during Bank's supervision missions.
8.     Costs and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes the IDA Credit, and the project's planned expenditures, have
been realistically estimated. Republika Srpska will change two to four percent interest on subloans to
PFIs. In addition, DEF will charge 100 basis points commitment fee and 100 basis points interest spread
on disbursed and outstanding amount. This will enable DEF to fully cover its operational costs, as well as
the cost of IDA funds, and the expected loan losses. The pricing of Bank funds will be reviewed and
adjusted from time to time, as needed. In order to facilitate the implementation of FMRs, the project's cost
tables include an appropriate cost matrix, which adequately shows the relationship between the loan
agreement categories and project components.
- 59 -



Conclusion: It was agreed that the DEF's interest income might be counted as the official Govemment
counterpart financing contribution, if necessary.
9.     Auditing Arrangements
DEF will be responsible for ensuring that project's financial statements, special accounts, and Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) or Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) are audited by an independent intemational
auditor, a member of a professional body that is a member of the Intemational Federation of Accountants
(IFAC) and acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the
Bank. The annual project audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be
in a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the Intemational
Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audited financial statements of the Foundation and of the project
will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the Govemrnent's fiscal year.
Currently the State Ministry of Treasury of Institutions (MOT) of BiH has recently renewed a three-year
contract (2001-2003) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Netherlands for the audits of World Bank financed
projects. The project will be included on the list of projects audited under the master audit agreement with
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Netherlands. It is expected that the cost of audit will not be financed from the
credit. It will be financed from the DEF's own income.
Participating banks will be required to provide annual external audits of financial statements and of capital
adequacy, according to the terms of reference agreed with the Bank, by reputable extemal auditors
acceptable to the Bank. In addition, the participating banks will maintain proper accounts for subloans
including supporting procurement and disbursement documents, which would be audited annually by
extemal auditors, acceptable to the Bank.
Conclusion: By September 25, 2001, the Bank has received a written notification from the Ministry of
Treasury that the project will be included in the global auditing contract (done). DEF has appointed an
independent auditing firm, acceptable to the Bank, to perform the annual audits of its financial statements.
10.    Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, one separate overseas Special Account denominated in EURO
for the RS-DEF. The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided
by IDA under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the
financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. .
Conclusion: There is currently no local banks in the country which could be considered totally reliable and
financially sound. It is therefore recommended that banks outside BiH should be used until the local
banking system is improved.
11.    Agreed Action Plan for DEF
It is concluded that the DEF currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. There is however a number of actions that the DEF have agreed to take to improve its
financial management process.
- 60 -



Action                                                               Deadline
I.Complete standard financial manuals by DEF, with supplementary section for  Done
this project.
2.Design reporting requirements (draft FMR template and draft financial  D
statements) for review by the Financial Management Specialist.         one
3.Submit a written notification to the Bank by the Ministry of Treasury that the  Done
Private Sector Credit Project has been included arnong other projects to be audited
by the Auditor acceptable to the Bank.
4.The Foundation will appoint an independent auditing firm, acceptable to the  Done
Association, to perforrn the annual audits of the its financial statements.
5.Finalization of 2002 Budget, including recording and allocation of total budget  Done
in the accounting system.
12.    Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports of the project and DEF will be
reviewed and issues identified and followed up. The field based FMS would monitor the agreed action plan
to ensure appropriate actions have been implemented by DEF.
- 61 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8                           18
First Bank mission (identification)            02/28/2000                  02/28/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    05/03/2000                  07/15/2000
Negotiations                                   10/15/2000                  01/22/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/31/2001                  06/30/2002
Prepared by:
World Bank team in cooperation with the Association of Private Producers, the Banking Agency of
Republika Srpska and members of the Banking Association, and the Development and Employment
Foundation in Republika Srpska.
Preparation assistance:
NA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Sonja Brajovic Bratanovic        TTL and Sr. Financial Sector Specialist
Chai Ting                        Sr. Fin. Management Specialist
John Hegarty                     Reg. Fin. Management Advisor
Joseph Formoso                    Sr. Disbursement Officer
Elly Gudmundsdottir              Counsel
Dilek Barlas                      Sr. Counsel
Mohammed Nawaz                   Counsel
- 62 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, as of January 2002
Operational Manual, January 25, 2002
Financial Manuals, November 2001
Draft FMR template and draft financial statements, October 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
EPCP - Implementation Completion Report - June 2001
Private Sector Credit Project - Project Concept Document, February 2000
Private Sector Credit Project - Project Appraisal Document, January 22, 2002
Aide Memoire and Back to Office Report, Bank's mission in March 2000
Aide Memoire and Back to Office Report, Bank's mission in July 2000
Aide Memoire and Back to Office Report, Bank's mission in October 2000
Aide Memoire and Back to Office Report, Bank's mission in September 2001
Country Assistance Strategy - May 2000
Report on Implementation of the Country Assistance Strategy - October 2001
Assessment of Commercial Procurement Practices in RS - April 2000
Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey for 1999/2000 by IDA and EBRD
Diagnostics Survey of Corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, draft September 2001
CFAA, draft, October 2001
Staff Appraisal of VB Bank, September 2001
Staff Appraisal of Raiffeisen Bank, September 2001
Staff Appraisal of Nova Bank, September 2001
Staff Appraisal of Zepter Bank, September 2001
C. Other
Reports on Status of the Banking System in RS - Banking Agency,
(standard reports issued semiannually; last report as of June 30, 2001)
Analysis of Banking Sector Operations in RS - Banking Agency
(standard reports issued semiannually, last report as of June 30, 2001)
Country Strategy Paper 2002-2006, European Commission,
December 2001
Prudential Regulations issued in RS
Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska) - Implementation
- 63 -



Analysis, April 2000
Action Plan to Address Insolvency and Privatization of State Owned
Banks, August 2001
Kristal Bank
Extemal audits for 1999 and 2000
On-site examination report of the Banking Agency
Credit Manuals, Financial Risk Management Policies and Procedures
Management Reports and details on MIS
Zepter Bank
Extemal audits for 1999 and 2000
On-site examination report of the Banking Agency
Credit Manuals, Financial Risk Management Policies and Procedures
Management Reports and details on MIS
Nova Bank
External audit for 2000
On-site examination report of the Banking Agency
Credit Manuals, Financial Risk Management Policies and Procedures
Management Reports and details on MIS
Raiffeisen Bank
Extemal audits for 1999 and 2000
On-site examination report of the Banking Agency
Credit Manuals, Financial Risk Management Policies and Procedures
Management Reports and details on MIS
VB Bank
Extemal audit for 2000
On-site examination report of the Banking Agency
Credit Manuals, Financial Risk Management Policies and Procedures
Management Reports and details on MIS
Banialucka Bank
Extemal audits for 1999 and 2000
Razvoina Bank
Extemal audit 2000
On-site examination report of the Banking Agency
*lncluding electronic files
- 64 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS W
(As of OCT 31 .2001)
USS Million
(Less Cancellations)
Fiscal
Loan No.    Year   Borrower                 Project                                   Loan     Undisbursed
Loan/Creditsl Grants
IBRD bW
4038-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan A                           28.6         0.0
4039-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan B                          284.9         0.0
4040-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan C                          307.1         0.0
Total                                         620.6         0.0
Of vhich: Repaid                               24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank                    595.7         0.0
TFBH 6' (Under Disbursements
TF-024030     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Recovery Credit                      45.0         0.0
TF-024031     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Farm Reconstruction                  20.0         0.0
TF-024032     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Water Supply                         20.0         0.0
TF-024033     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Transport                            35.0         0.7
TF-024034     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Distrct Heating                      20.0         0.0
TF-024035     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation            5.0         0.0
TF-024040     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Education Reconstruction              5.0         0.0
Total                                         150.0         0.7
IDA
2897-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Education Reconstruction              5.0         0.0
2896-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation            5.0         0.0
2902-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Housing Repair                       15.0         0.0
2903-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Power Reconstruction                 35.6         0.0
2904-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Public Works and Employment          10.0         0.4
2905-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Landmines Clearance                   7.5         0.3
2906-Bos      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration      7.5         0.3
2914-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Transition Assistance Credit                   90.0         0.0
NOOt-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee          10.0         0.0
N002-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency MicroenterpriselLocal Initiatives     7.0         0.3
N003-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Essential Hospital Services                    15.0         1.3
N032-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Transport Reconstruction It                    39.0         0.0
N035-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Education Reconstruction II                    11.0         0.0
3028-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Reconstruction Assistance Project              17.0         0,0
3029-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Natural Gas                          10.0         0.0
3070-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                     5.0         0.0
3071-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Power II                                       25.0         3.7
N040-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Forestry                                        7.0         2.3
3090-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)       63.0         0.0
3191-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Local Development                              15.0        13.7
3202-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Basic Health                                   10.0         7.8
3262-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Enterprise and Bank Privatization Project      50.0        24.5
3257-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Enterprise Export Facility Project             12.0         8.4
3269-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Pilot Cultural Heritage Project (LIL)           4.0         2.6
3258-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Second Public Finance (Structural Adjustment)  72.0        20.4
3351 -BOS     2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Education Development Project III              10.6         8.8
3400-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Mostar Water and Sanitation                    12.0        10.4
3385-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Labor Redeployment                   15.0        14.1
3439-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Social Sector Structural Adjustment Credit - TA  3.55       3.3
Q2370-BOS     2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Trade and Transport Facilitation in SEE        11.0        10.9
34650-BOS     2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Social Sector SAC(SOSAC I)                     20.0         0.9
35330-BOS     2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Local Iniative It                              20.0        20.0
35340-BOS     2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Electirc Power 3                               35.0        35.0
35380-BOS     2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Community Development                          15.0        15.0
3531-BOS      2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Privatization TA                               19.8        19.8
Total                                         709.6       224.2
Grand Total                                   859.6       224.9
a/ The Status of these projects as descnbed in a separate report on all Bank/10A financed projects in execution.
wnhch is updated twce yeairy and circutated to the Executive C-rectors on Apnl 30 and October 31.
Dl consolidation Loans A. Y. and C: were approved on June 14. 1990 and oecame ettective on June 14. 199tb
c. rrust Funo tor Hosrna ana He,,ego,na
- 65 -



B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 2000)
IFC Held
-------------- USD  Million --------------
Obliaor                        Type of Business               Loan  Equity Quasi Total
Tvornica Kartona i Arnbalaze Cazin  Timber, Pulp and Paper      3.21  0.00  0.00     3.21
SOUR Energoinvest              Industrial Equipment and Machinery  7.64  0.00  0.00  7.64
Horizonte BiH Enterprise Fund  SME Investment                   0.00  1.74  0.00     1.74
Microenterprise Bank           Microcredit                      0.00  0.85  0.00    0.85
Sarajevska Pivara              Beverage Manufacturing           2.80  0.00  0.00     2.80
SEF Akova                      Meat Packing and Processing      1.83  0.00  0.00     1.83
Wood Agency Credit Line        Furniture and Other Wood Products  4.30  0.00  0.00   4.30
SEF Lignosper                  Furniture Manufacturing          2.00  0.00  0.00     2.00
SEF Kopex                      Industrial and Consumer Services  1.86  0.00  0.00    1.86
SEF Lijanovici                 Abattoir, Meat Processing        2.17  0.00  0.00     2.17
SEF Bosnalijek                 Pharmaceutical                   0.00  0.00  2.14     2.14
Wood Konjuh                    Wood Products                    2.17  0.00  0.00     2.17
Wood Kozara                    Wood Products                    1.52  0.00  0.00     1.52
Wood Podgradci                 Wood Products                    1.08  0.00  0.00     1.08
Wood Inga                      Wood Products                    1.52  0.00  0.00     1.52
Wood Vrbas                     Wood Products                    1.52  0.00  0.00     1.52
Total Gross Investments                                        33.58  2.59  2.14    38.32
Participations, Cancellations, Terminations, Exchange
Adjustments, Repayments, and Arrears (Principal Only)  10.84  0.00  0.00   10.84
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                              22.74  2.59  2.14    27.47
Total Undisbursed                                               7.66  1.01  0.00     8.67
Total Outstanding                                              15.08  1.58  2.14    18.80
-66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Private Sector Credit Project
Lower-
Europe &       middle-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Asia       Income
98                                                                                                   Development Diamond
Population. rid-year (natlilons)                                    3.9          474        2.030
GNI per capita (Atlas method. USS)                              1,220.0        1.990        1.090
GNI (Atas method. USS billions)                                     4.7         943         2.222
Average annual growth, 1992-98                                                                                        Life expectancy
Population I%)                                                      5.1         11.6          1.1
Labor force (Y)                                                    41.2          1.1         53.3                                    Gross Primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                                                     \ e          Enmtment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty tine)                                                                 Acces to safe
Urban population I% of total population)                            43            67          42                      A   ete
Lfe expectancy at birth (years)                                     73            69          69                           water
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                            13           21           32
Child mreutrition I% of children under 5)                                                     1 I
Access to irmproved water source t% of population)                                            89
tlliteracy (% of population age 15+)                                               4          16
Gross pnmary enoltnent (% of school-age pooulatio                                100         120               -   B     o snia and H erzegovina
Male                                                              t0           10t         121t-                     Lowermiddle income
Fenale                                                            10           99          114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                                                             EconomIc ratios'
1978                        1988         1997         1998
GDP (USS billions)                      0.0                         0.0          4.2          4.5
Gross donestic investn)en/GDP                                                   37.0         20.6                         Trade
Expons of goods and services/GDP                                                30 2         26.5
Gross dorrestc savings/GDP                                                      -0.9        -13.0
Gross national savings/GDP                                                      18.0         -0.8          Domestic                   n   nt
Current account balance/GDP                                                      -.2           2
Interest paymenWGDP                                                              1.0          1.1
Total debt/GDP                                                                  71.6         68.2
Total debt setviceexports                                                                                              Indebedness
Present value of debtGDP
Present value of debtexports
1978488                    1988-98          1997         1998
GDP                                                               32.9          10.2         10.0              -     Bosna and Heegovina
GNP per capita                                                                  24.1          4.7                    Lower middle income
Exports of goods and services                                     53.8          23.2         -3.9-
STRUCTURE ofthe ECONOMY               1978                       1988          1997         1998     Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
Agriculture                                                                     15.3         13.8       1
Industry                                                                        26.7         25.2     0.8
Manufacturing                                                                   16.7         15.4     0.6
Services                                                                        58.0        61 0      0
0.4
Pnvate consun-ption                                                                                   02
General government consumption                                                                          0 . -  0
Imports of goods and services                                                   68.1        60.1           1                 +                    2
197848   1988-9a  1997       1998      Growth of exports and Imports 1%)
Agriculture                                                        t 1.6       -14.7         -3.0
Industry                                                          31.2          14.5         11.2        1-
Manufactunng                                                      21.3          -7.5         7.3      0.8 -
Services                                                          46.0          10.6         17.5     0.6
Private consumption                                                                                   0.4
General govemment consumption                                                                         02
Gross domestic investinient                                                      3.6         9.9       0c
Imports of goods and services                                     291            6.8        -31            1                                      2
Gross national product                                                          28.1         7.9
Oevelopment Economics SIMA system. On-the-fly Tables: AAG(Database: GDF & WDI central)
Note This table has not been cleared for offical use.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing.
the diamond wilt be incomplete
- 67 -



Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                       1978        1988         1997         1998     Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                                               1
Consumer prices                                          ...8                                4 9       0.8S
Implicit GDP deflator                                                            8.8         3.1      0.6
Govemment finance                                                                                     0.4
(% of GDP)                                                                                             02
Current revenue                                                                   ..                    0
Current budget balance                                                                                     I                                   2
Overall surplus/deficit                                 ..                       -.2          -.2                 _                             . _
TRADE                                                 1978        1988         1997         1998     Export and import levels (US$
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      ..          ..           ..          ..        1-
Food
Agricultural rawn materials                                                     ..           ..      0.8
Fuels                                                 ..                                                 -
Ores and metals                                                                                      0.6
Manufactures                                           ..0.4
Total imports (cif)                                                                                   0.4
Food                                                          ..          ..          ..             0.2
Agricultural raw materials                            ..
Fuels                                                  ..          ..            ..          ..       o                       l     l    l    I
Ores and metals                                              ..           ..          ..                   92   93   Expons  lmports 97    98
Manufactures                                           .._.._.._._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                  1978         1988         1997         1998     Current account balance to GDP (X)
(US$ millions)                                                                                                                                     l
Exports of goods and services                           .             .        1.260        1.201       o-
Imports of goods and services                           ..           ..        2,840        2,728           92
Resource balance                                        .. ..                 -1,580   *    1,527       5- -
Net income                                              ..           ..         330          272                  <       I.
Net current transfers                                   ..            .-
Current account balance                                 ..           ..         -789         *971     -20
Financing items (net)                                                           850         1,233     -25
Changes in net reserves                                                          -61        -262      -30
Memo:                                                                                                 -35
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                  ..           ..         175          455
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                        ..           ..          1.8         1.8                                                   l
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                     1978         1988         1997         1998     Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
(USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    ..           ..        2,985        3,095                      90
IBRD                                                  ..           ..          566         566                                        566
IDA                                                   ..            ..         411         502                      x11.
Total debt service
lBRD
IDA                                                   ..           ..          119          91
Composition of net resource flows
Offcial grants                                        ..
Official creditors                                    ..                                   153
Private creditors                                     91           91           91          91
Foreign direct investment                              ..
Portfolio equity                                      ..           ..           ..          ..            t667                            90
World Bank program
Commitments
Disburserents                                         ..           ..          119          91            DARD            *IDA
Principal repayments                                 g9            91           91          91            D3MF            DOthermultilateral
Net flows                                              ..          ..           27           0            *Bilateral      t2Private
Interest paymnents                                     0            0            0           0            *Short-term
Net transfers                                         ..            -           27           o
Development Economics SIMA system, On-the-fly Tables: MG (Database:GOF & WDI central)                           12/10/2001
Note: This table has not been cleared for oftical use.
- 68 -



Additional
Annex 11
Appraisal of Banks Interested in Participation
Access to Bank funds will be open to eligible banks, which have met the agreed eligibility criteria. The
eligibility criteria and the process of appraisal of participating banks are described in Annex 2. A number
of banks has expressed interest for participation, but only few were able to receive a recommendation from
the Banking Agency. In 2000, Kristal Bank from Banja Luka has been appraised, but has failed to meet
the eligibility criteria. As the qualification of at least one bank was a condition for negotiations, the project
was put to rest until a qualified bank can be found. In 2001, four banks have expressed interest and
received support of the Banking Agency.  These were Zepter Bank from Banja Luka, Raiffeisen Bank
from Sarajevo (which would participate through its branch in Banja Luka), Nova Bank from Bjeljina and
VB Bank from Banja Luka. The four banks were appraised and two (VB Bank and Raiffeisen Bank) were
found to fully meet the criteria.
The appraisal of Zepter Bank has not been finalized, as the Bank has not been able to finalize the analysis
on whether the owner of the bank is "fit and proper" due to the lack of information. Under the assumption
that the Bank's analysis of Zepter's owner is positive (after the extemal audits related to the owner of
Zepter Bank have been received and reviewed by the Bank), the conclusion would be that the bank
substantially meets the eligibility criteria. Nova Bank, where the appraisal has been completed, also
substantially meets the criteria. For Nova Bank, the deviations from the full qualification criteria do not
constitute a significant financial risk (especially with respect to its debt servicing capacity). These banks
are acceptable to the Bank providing that they commit to addressing the noted issues by signing a
Memorandum of Understanding with the Government. The MOU would include credible and specific
action plans (with a set of time-bound and monitorable performance indicators) to meet the full
qualification criteria within no more than 18 months. Access to Bank funding for these two banks will be
limited to 25 percent of capital until such time when they would be able to fully meet the qualification
criteria.
The summary of appraisal of these four banks is provided below. The full appraisal report for all four
banks, as of September 2001 (referring to financial condition of a bank as of June 30, 2001), is available in
project files.
Appraisal of VB Bank
The bank began its operations in 1996 as a branch of Vojvodjanska Banka (from Novi Sad, Yugoslavia).
In the course of 1998, its capital structure changed and VB Bank started operations as an independent
bank in November 1998. This is a majority privately owned bank. As of mid-2001, the largest
shareholders are LHB Bank from Frankfurt, Germany (53.4%) and Vojvodjanska Bank from Novi Sad,
Yugoslavia (15.6%). Private enterprises hold about 18% of the total bank shares and individuals about
7.5%. As of June 30, 2001, VB's capital totaled KM13.8 million. VB's capital adequacy ratio was about
56% as of December 31, 2000 and 101% as of June 30, 2001. As of June 30, 2001, its assets totaled
about KM23 million, with (well diversified) credit portfolio of about KM10 million. The summary of VB
Bank appraisal is provided in Table 11.1.
- 69 -



Table 11.1 - Summary of VB Bank Appraisal
(September 2001)
Criterion                                 Comments/Actions
1. License                  Criterion met.
2. Good standing with RSBA  Criterion met.
3. Minimum Capital and      Capital adequacy is over 100%.
Capital Adequacy
4. Liquidity                Fully satisfactory.
5. Asset Quality and Provisions  Fully satisfactory.
6. Profitability            Fully satisfactory.
7. Governance and Risk      Satisfactory. The bank needs to define policies about the relationship between
Management                  headquarters and branches and the respective procedures, especially for credit risk.
8. Owners and Managers are  Satisfactory.
"fit and proper"
9. Internal Audit and Controls  Hire a head of internal audit by end-2001.
Internal audit plan should be adopted by the board by end-200 1.
Internal audit should become functional in 2002.
10. MIS                    Generally satisfactory. Undertake an independent audit in early 2002.
The bank fully meets the eligibility criteria. There are, however, some institutional concems that need to be
addressed. Until now, VB has been a small bank, with many of its functions being performed at a basic
level. The bank is now at the point where a fast growth is to be expected. For safe management of risk
associated with assets growth, the bank needs to further strengthen its control systems and its financial risk
management function.
Appraisal of Raiffeisen Bank
The bank was founded in 1992 under the name of Market Bank. It started to operate in 1993. In July
2000, Raiffeisen Zentral Bank (RZB) from Austria bought the majority shares of Market Bank. The bank
changed its name and merged into the Raiffeisen system. The bank's ownership structure currently
comprises RZB with 90.39% equity and EBRD with 9.34%. The branch in Banja Luka operates as part of
the system and is overseen by Raiffeisen Bank in Sarajevo.
The bank's equity capital totaled KM22 million, as of December 31, 2000, with total assets of KM224
million. As of June 30, 2001, the total capital amounted to about KM35 million and the total assets to
KM344 million. The bank reported capital adequacy ratio of 13.5% as of end December 2000 and 12.3%
as of end-June 2001. In between, the capital adequacy ratio fluctuated in the 10-14.5% range. As of
end-June 2001, the bank's credit exposure totaled KM248 million (an increase of about 48.8% as
compared to December 31, 2000). The summary of Raiffeisen Bank appraisal is provided in Table 11.2.
- 70 -



Table 11.2 - Summary of Raiffeisen Bank Appraisal
(September 2001)
Criterion                                  Comments/Actions
1. License                     Criterion met.
2. Good standing with RSBA     Criterion met.
3. Minimum Capital and         Cniterion barely met. Capital adequacy is at the margin. Capital needs to be
Capital Adequacy               increased if the bank is to continue with its growth trend.
4. Liquidity                   Criterion not fuilly met. Breaches are not considered critical.
5. Asset Quality and Provisions  Satisfactory, but the overall level of provisions somewhat low. The quality of
collateral needs to be improved.
6. Profitability               Satisfactory.
7. Governance and Risk Management Satisfactory.
8. Owners and Managers are     Satisfactory.
"fit and proper"
9. Internal Audit and Controls  Generally satisfactory. Some improvements needed.
10. MIS                        Assumed to be satisfactory. Not appraised by mission.
RF is using parent bank software.
The bank fully meets the eligibility criteria. There are, however, some actions that need to be taken for the
bank to remain sound and stable. This includes a capital increase, which would allow the bank to maintain
its fast growth momentum, certain improvements of the credit risk management function, and further
improvements of internal audits and controls. The bank has been advised about specific concerns and is
expected to take the necessary actions to effectively address them.
Appraisal of Nova Bank
The Bank was founded in 1992 under the name of Eksim Bank with headquarters in Bijeljina, Republika
Srpska. In 1994, the bank changed its name to Export-Import Bank. By 1999, the bank has changed its
ownership structure and its name to Nova Bank. Nova Bank is wholly privately owned. Bank's capital is
very well diversified, both in terms of share ownership and geographically. It has 292 shareholders, both
private companies and persons. The largest shareholder (a person) owns about 4.9% of the bank. The 10
largest shareholders (5 persons and 5 companies) own about 25.5% and the 20 largest shareholders about
41% of the bank. Bank's ownership is likely to become even more diluted, as the bank continues to grow.
As of June 30, 2001, the bank's assets were about KM34 million, with a credit portfolio of about KM18
million, and its capital totaled KM11.4 million. In calculating the risk-based capital adequacy, bank's
capital has been adjusted (i.e., reduced) to accommodate for provisions that were considered inadequate.
With these adjustments, the capital adequacy ratio was 46.6% as of 30 June 2001(and 39.9% as of 31
December 2000). The summary of Nova Bank appraisal is provided in Table 11.3.
The capital is directly related to branches, in that each branch has been established (and has grown) by
raising capital locally. The capital has been raised both in RS and the Federation, as the bank clearly has
an intention to competitively cover the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A branch has a right to
utilize its capital and up to one third of funding raised locally. For the rest of available funding, it has to
compete with the other members of the Nova Bank group. Branches are jointly liable to cover the losses of
each other (and for the bank as a whole). The bank's profit is shared equally among branches (i.e., a new
branch which is still making losses would, nevertheless, take a share of profit proportional to its share in
the total capital of the bank).
- 71 -



Table 11.3 - Summary of Nova Bank Appraisal
(September 2001)
Criterion                                      Comments/Actions
1. License                        Criterion met.
2. Good standing with RSBA        Criterion met.
3. Minimum Capital and            Criterion met.
Capital Adequacy
4. Liquidity                      Criterion met.
5. Asset Quality and Provisions   Criterion not fully met. Credit risk management function needs to be reorganized
and needs strengthening. The level of provisions needs to be increased.
6. Profitability                  Satisfactory. The bank needs to keep control over cost increases.
7. Governance and Risk Management Criterion not fully met. The bank has developed some basic policies and
procedures but further work is needed to complete the work and refine the policies
and procedures.
8. Owners and Managers are        Criterion met.
"fit and proper"
9. Internal Audit and Controls    Criterion not fully met. Internal controls and internal audit function need to be
strengthened.
10. MIS                           Criterion not fully met. The bank needs to develop disaster recovery program, to
complete external audit of its IT function and implement recommendations.
The bank substantially meets the eligibility criteria. The bank's financial condition is sound and its capital
adequacy ratio is much higher then requested. The bank has a highly distributed ownership and capital
structure, and highly distributed operating concept with many branches (and more are planned). This
requires a higher level of institutional capacity, as compared to a bank with a typical capital structure and
operating concept. However, bank's organization and systems are not yet sufficiently attuned and able to
support the bank's distributed operating concept and controls. For the bank to be able to fully meet the
eligibility criteria, its institutional capacity, organization and systems must be strengthened, especially
regarding its operational and financial risk management functions. The key areas that need to be addressed
for the bank to be able to fully meet the eligibility criteria include:
*    Financial/Credit Risk Management. The key issues in credit risk management is not so much the
actual quality of the bank's credit portfolio, but the deficiencies in identification, appraisal and
management of the credit risk function in the bank. With a highly distributed ownership structure
and organization of the bank, such deficiencies can easily backfire. Unless addressed, management
of credit risk will become increasingly difficult as the bank grows. The most critical are the
reorganization, completion and/or realignment of policies and procedures for credit risk
management to better fit the risk profile of the bank, and implementation of measures to strengthen
the quality of bank's credit portfolio. Therefore, the bank should restrain from growth until such
time when the key risk assessment and management structure appropriate for bank's specific risk
profile and organization have been put in place.
*    Internal Audit and Controls. The key issue in the intemal audit and control area is to increase
independence, visibility and effectiveness of the intemal audit and control functions.
Strengthening of intemal controls in the bank for the control function to become better organized,
integrated and systematic, especially in credit risk management, accounting and financial
management.
*    Computer Systems. The key issues to be addressed as a condition for qualification relate to
security procedures and disaster recovery plans and to the general concem to ensure that the IT
- 72 -



system is fully integrated across applications and that system controls between various system
components are complete and consistent. Completion of an independent external audit of the IT
function would be the first step to identify the critical issues.
If the bank agrees to take actions necessary to address the noted deficiencies, it will be invited to sign a
Memorandum of Understanding. The Memorandum will establish the deadlines and details of the actions
to be taken by the bank to gain first the provisional and then the full participation status.  Once the
Memorandum is signed and the critical actions are completed, if the bank's financial condition remains safe
and sound and the bank continues to meet the capital adequacy criteria, the bank would acquire a
"provisional" access for up to 25 percent of its total capital. It would reach the participating bank status
once the whole action plan is completed and the bank is able to cleanly meet all eligibility criteria.
Appraisal of Zepter Bank
Zepter Komerce Banka was established under the name of Komerce Banka in November 1998. It started
operations in March 1999 after being re-registered under the present name. The bank is owned by a single
group of connected parties. As of June 30, 2001, bank's capital was KM12 million, and the capital
adequacy ratios were 38% as of December 31, 2000 and 21% as of June 30, 2001. The total assets
increased by about 70% in the first half of 2001 and amounted to KM55 million as of June 30, 2001, with
credit portfolio of about KM24 million. The summary of Zepter Bank appraisal is provided in Table 11.4.
- 73 -



Table 11.4 - Summary of Zepter Bank Appraisal
(September 2001)
Criterion                                    Comments/Actions
1. License                    Criterion met.
2. Good standing with RSBA    Criterion met.
3. Minimum Capital and        Criterion met.
Capital Adequacy
4. Liquidity                  Criterion met.
5. Asset Quality and Provisions  Criterion not met. Policies on loan classification and provisions need to be
modified and the credit portfolio be brought inline with the new policies.
6. Profitability              Criterion met, but profitability may be impaired with more strict provisioning
policy.
7. Policies and Procedures for  Criterion met, except for elements discussed in the asset quality section.
Financial Risk Management
8. Owners and Managers are    Criterion not fully met. Pending submission of external audits for the 2 majority
"fit and proper"             owners. The bank's appraisal would be completed only after teh extemal audits
have been evaluated. In any case, ownership structure needs to be diversified.
9. Internal Audit and Controls  Criterion not fully met. Hire a head of intemal audit by end-2001 and adopt
internal audit plan for 2002.
Intemal audit should become functional in 2002.
10. MIS                       Generally satisfactory.
The bank's financial condition is sound and it substantially meets the eligibility criteria. The mission,
however, has not been able to review information regarding financial condition and solvency of Zepter
Holding and of Zepter Banka, to establish that the owners are financially sound and qualify as "fit and
proper". The Bank must submit the externally audited financial statements for the two majority owners to
allow assessment of this criterion.
In addition, the bank needs to address certain critical issues, including:
*    Ownership Structure. A broader issue is whether a bank's ownership structure comprising a
single owner, or an affiliated group of owners, can be, as a matter of principle, considered
adequate. The eligibility criteria normally followed by the Bank would require that a bank
diversifies its ownership structure and to ensure adequate governance.
*    Exposure to Connected Parties. The key issues in credit risk management are related to the
exposures to connected parties. In this regard, the bank needs to change its practices to standards
acceptable to the Bank.
*    Asset Classification  and  Provisions.    The bank's asset classification    policy and asset
classification practices should be improved, including reorganization of the classification
responsibility and increase in the average level of provisions for impaired assets.
*    Internal Audit and Controls. Establishment of the internal audit function is long overdue. In this
regard, the bank would be expected to establish the internal audit and controls function and
ascertain that the function is duly exercised.
If the bank agrees to take actions necessary to address the noted deficiencies, it will be invited to sign a
Memorandum of Understanding. The Memorandum will establish the deadlines and details of the actions
- 74 -



to be taken by the bank to gain first the provisional and then the full participation status. Once the
Memorandum is signed and the critical actions are completed, if the bank's financial condition remains safe
and sound and the bank continues to meet the capital adequacy criteria, the bank would acquire a
"provisional" access for up to 25 percent of its total capital. It would reach the participating bank status
once the whole action plan is completed and the bank is able to cleanly meet all eligibility criteria.
- 75 -



Additional
Annex 12
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA - Private Sector Credit Project
Eligible Technical Assistance Programs
The objective of the technical assistance component is to provide interested banks with technical assistance
which they might require to address the noted or suspected problems or to successfully develop to a
competitive banking institution. The terms of reference described below aim to demonstrate, in a generic
form, the technical assistance requirements that a bank might have and tasks which might need to be
completed within the technical assistance program. The terms of reference is indicative, rather then
exclusive, as other types of necessary technical assistance to improve any of the banking functions would
be eligible.
Strategic and Business Planning
A bank might have a planning process, but not a formalized strategic planning capability. Given the need
to compete and develop in a rapidly changing environment, the completion of a strategic plan might be an
urgent priority as a necessary foundation for building a program of institutional strengthening. In general,
the strategic plan must clearly define future business strategy of a bank -- its mission and objectives, target
markets, products and services, financial goals, resource requirements and action plans for executing its
strategy and achieving its goals and objectives.
In assisting a bank to prepare the strategic plan, consultants might be needed to conduct analysis of the
market and business environment, the bank's competition, current and potential markets (i.e., assess market
conditions, number of banks, their size and capacity, quality of services provided, market growth), and the
bank's current market position. Assistance might be needed to conduct relevant internal analysis to identify
the bank's strengths and weaknesses in relation to the market, the competition and future business
opportunities. The intemal analyses should typically include profitability analysis of existing businesses.
In the next stage, the consultant might be asked to work with bank's management to define its mission and
strategy, propose new business focus or directions, develop business strategy in accordance with designated
new role, and prepare action plans to execute that strategy.
The bank may also need technical assistance to extend the new corporate strategy into a series of plans,
each covering a major business of the bank: defining specific goals, target markets, products and services,
resource requirements, and actions programs as needed to provide practical guidance to each business unit
and tools for monitoring and evaluating performance. That process must establish how the task of planning
is organized, conducted and monitored on an on-going basis. The role of various departments (including, if
necessary a specialist strategic planning unit within the bank) in the planning exercise must be established
and the steps in the process with appropriate deadlines for completion of tasks must be outlined and agreed
with the bank's management. The consultant might also be required expected to train bank staff in strategic
and business planning in the course of the work, so that the bank has the ability to independently continue
the planning process in the future.
- 76 -



Organization
A bank must be adequately organized to successfully execute its business strategy. A diagnostic study or
technical assistance might be needed to establish if the bank's existing organization structure is adequate for
its business strategy or the bank needs to reorganize to be able to implement a new strategy. This could
include assessment of organizational structure for carrying out business strategy and maximization of
operating efficiency, analysis of the organization in branches and relationship with the head office or
assessment of board responsibilities and relationship to line management.
Once the diagnosis has been made, consultants may be required to define the specific requirements and
restructuring alternatives, propose new organization structure or necessary improvements at various levels
of the organization. Consultants could be required to work with management to develop and document the
organization structure of the head-office, regional offices (as needed), and their specific relationships to the
branch offices -- to include a definition of each organizational unit (including permanent committees), its
mission, main responsibilities, key functions to carry out each responsibility, and required staffing levels.
Once the basic structure is decided, the consultant could be asked to also prepare a plan for implementing
the new organization indicating implementation actions and responsibilities, schedule and support
requirements.
Human Resource Management and Training
Human resource management practices, typical for an "old style" bank, are most likely inadequate for a
commercial bank in a competitive environment. Further, staff may have a number of skill deficiencies
which need to be addressed, as a result of their facing a radically redefined tasks in the changing banking
environment and business focus. For example, a bank may have immediate needs for building critical skills
of financial risk management or internal audit. A comprehensive training needs analysis may be required
and a formalized training plan, in line with the requirements of the bank's strategic plan, may need to be
developed and then implemented. The analysis and plan could take into account the requirements under
each of the functional areas in a bank.
In general, a consultant may be asked to design and/or work with the bank to implement any of the key
human resource management aspects, such as:
Training Needs Analysis. A job-by-job identification of training needs.
*      Training and Development Master Plan. Prioritization and planning of how all training needs will
be met. Launching highest priority programs.
*      Performance/Potential Appraisal. Assessment of the performance and potential of all employees;
identification of major development needs.
*      Staffing. Effectively matching people to jobs in the new organization.
In addition, human resource management systems may need to be upgraded to meet both current and future
human resource requirements, including documentation of each system in the form of an operating manual,
as well as pilot implementation and training of implementation staff. These could include:
*      Manpower Planning. Supply/demand analysis, projection of manpower gaps and excesses (3-5
years) by major skill/rank levels and plans to fill the gaps and deal with the excesses. Identify areas of over
- 77 -



and understaffing. Propose retraining for overstaffed areas or suitable financial packages.
Recruitin . Pro-active methods for finding and selecting key talent.
*      Rewards Management. A compensation system that will attract, retain and motivate managers,
technical personnel and staff. Propose improvements in incentive systems to motivate staff and managers to
maximize productivity. Consider participation of staff and managers in capital of the bank.
Mana2ement Development. Methods for developing general and technical managers.
*      Performance Management. System for managing individual performance (e.g., goals, standards,
monitoring, evaluation).
a      Work Culture Development. A program for building a competitive, commercial work culture
throughout the organization.
Credit Analysis/Loan Portfolio and Problem Loan Management
The increased risk associated with the new banking environment calls for the strengthening of credit risk
management. A formalized management and operational structure regarding credit policies, procedures
and systems would be on the agenda of all new banks in Republika Srpska. The credit analysis/loan
portfolio and problem loan management process of banks would should be strengthened to meet the
challenges of a market economy. Technical assistance for credit management system could cover all
aspects of credit risk and problem loan management, including concentration limits, target market
guidelines, risk acceptance criteria, credit approval authorities, gearing and investment limits, credit
analysis, credit structuring and pricing, loan documentation, contracts and security, loan disbursement
procedures, monitoring strategy and intervals, credit recovery and legal enforcement, credit administration,
controls within the credit system (including: approval, disbursement, amendment to terms and other
sanction authorities, credit audit and policy exceptions), automation of reports needed to monitor asset
quality, etc. Especially critical would be the need for assistance in management of problem loans,
including problem loan definition and identification, problem loan reporting, problem loan follow-up,
delinquent loan recovery, loan restructuring options, repossession and legal recovery actions, etc.
The type of technical assistance requirements might include:
*      Analysis of credit policies and procedures; borrower selection, credit analysis, loan administration
and controls with particular emphasis on identification and management of late and problem borrowers.
Develop guidelines for pricing of loans and deposits as well as the pricing of services on the basis of cost
accounting.
Develop valuation rules based on IAS to promote transparency and accuracy of financial reporting.
This could include elaboration of specific classification criteria and procedures, valuation and provisioning
rules, revaluation of collateral, income recognition rules for loans, investments off-balance sheet positions
and other banking assets.
*      Elaboration of risk classification criteria, which include objective rules based on arrears
performance and subjective standards based on estimated borrowers' ability and willingness to service debt
out of prospective cash flows. Methods and accounting procedures to establish loan losses and investment
valuation reserves, and minimum level and type of those reserves. These rules would contain provisions
- 78 -



regarding renewal, refinancing and other changes of the original terms of credit, a definition of
non-performing loans, criteria for suspending income recognition and reverse unpaid accrued and
capitalized income.
Treasury, Risk Management and Asset/Liability Management
The requirements for treasury and asset/liability management have been accentuated due to increased risk
and higher competition. The skills, policies and systems which are required to manage these risks must be
introduced into a bank. While banks currently undertake liquidity risk management, assistance may be
needed in developing the minimum requirements for other financial risk management functions, such as
market, currency and/or interest rate risks. The technical assistance programs will have to specify the type
of risk limits which have to be observed, the role of the board, the delegation of authority to undertake risk,
and the necessary elements for the banks' internal control and reporting systems to be in the position to: a)
detect, measure, monitor and manage risk; and, b) ensure compliance with policies and procedures, and
appropriately measure risk-rewards trade-offs.
A comprehensive asset/liability management (ALM) capability also needs to be developed. Consultants
could be asked to assist with building the processes, organization, information systems and skill required to
manage the range of ALM risks currently facing a bank and any near-term additional risks inherent in the
execution of its strategic plan. For example, consultants could be asked to develop and document processes
to cover, at a minimum, such ALM areas as liquidity, capital, interest rate gaps and pricing. Further,
technical assistance might be needed to define an organization structure that will execute these new ALM
processes - defining specific responsibilities, authorities, functions and target outputs of each unit, as well
as required staffing. In addition, it will be necessary to define the information required to support the ALM
processes (e.g., external and internal information, formats, time-frames). The consultant may train key
staff (treasury support staff, treasury management and other senior managers who will participate in, or
contribute to, ALM decisions), in utilizing the ALM system to meet practical day-to-day needs.
Due Diligence Audits and Bank Recovery Programs
If a bank is in precarious or worsening financial condition, technical assistance may be needed to assist
management in making a proper diagnosis and in developing realistic financial recovery programs. Such
programs would typically consider the actual condition and viability outlook of the bank, including its
capital and liquidity conditions, with comprehensive forecasted financial statements. For the projected
financial statements, consultants may be asked to provide core assumptions for external and intemal
variables and (on a month by month basis) the expected liquidity, cash flow, eamings, capital, and other
relevant financial indicators. Capital and liquidity plans should typically be based on the results of the
financial review performed, which will link the initial position of the bank with prospective evolution, and
identify the anticipated financial effect of all major actions which the bank might pursue to reconstruct its
liquidity and capital adequacy, and/or increase its capital. The bank recovery program should ultimately
identify and then show the materialization of potential major actions, including recapitalization, sale of
assets, reduction of branch network, rationalization of staffing and other operating expenses, etc.
- 79 -



Management Information Systems
Management of a modem bank facing multiple risks and operating in competitive markets requires a
comprehensive management information capacity. Based on bank's strategy and business plans, the
defined business units and organization, consultants might be asked to assist bank's management in defining
the specific information which will be required to manage and operate the bank, measure its performance
and manage its risks, including management reports at each management level. Such MIS plan could
include all the key areas of bank operations and management, including credit and portfolio status, treasury
including liquidity, market, interest and currency status and risks, funding, asset and liability management,
deposits management and strategy, operations, front and back-office, head-office and branches, and
strategy, budgeting and performance measurement including the design and implementation of an
appropriate management accounting system (see below).
Consequently, a comprehensive accounting system would need to be developed with capacity to provide
management information for each of the operational units of the bank, as well as for the bank as a whole.
To produce this information as required, assistance might be needed to design and implement, as soon as
practical, a comprehensive management accounting system for the bank.  The accounting system
requirements might include information on a profit-center and cost-center basis with appropriate transfer
pricing for inter-unit transactions. The management accounts could also be requested to give revenue, cost
and profitability information by product, customer, branch and business division. Consultants might be
asked to assist the bank to integrate the new management information requirements, including the
management accounts and the new financial accounts required for external authorities, into the automation
strategy of the bank. Consultants might also provide training for staff in the utilization of new systems and
processes developed.
Budgeting and Performance Measurement
All banks currently have budgeting systems at the head-office and branch levels, but which are not
sufficiently comprehensive to fully meet the needs of a modem bank. The budgeting systems would need to
be further developed to ensure linkages, for example, with the strategic planning process or that it could be
used to systematically monitor performance throughout the bank. Technical assistance might be needed to
design, develop, organize and implement a comprehensive budgeting system. Such system should ensure
that individual branches and units within the bank budget for all income and expenditure items over which
they have responsibility.
The process should also ensure that the annual budgets for the bank and its departments and branches are
linked to the strategic planning process and objectives; that budget targets are agreed to between
head-office and individual departmentlbranch managers to ensure challenging but realistic targets and
secure good motivation and performance from managers; that detailed and relevant variance analysis takes
place on a regular (preferably monthly) basis and all significant variances from the bank's targets and
objectives are highlighted; and that the management accounts for the bank and its constituent parts are
designed to report actual performance against budgets and strategic targets. Consultants might be also
needed to design, develop and implement a comprehensive system of measuring performance against targets
through the use of a well defined set of management accounts and reports and through a system of
individual performance management.
- 80 -



Operations
With an expansion of the banks' products and services, intensified competition, pressure on margins and
impending automation, it will be necessary to rebuild operations and systems, particularly at the branch
level. While most banks have started to automate their transaction processing systems, the banks'
operating systems and procedures need to be further strengthened to ensure their efficiency and
effectiveness in meeting the systems requirements of the new business processes, products and units as they
evolve from banks' strategies. Operating systems and procedures will all have to be reviewed and adjusted
to take into account proposed planned businesses, methods of operations, service and control requirements
and the automation strategy of the bank. The new operations, systems and procedures would cover both
head-office and branch operations.
Technical assistance requirements in this area are substantial, It would be needed to review the existing
situation and establish diagnosis, prepare feasibility studies (taking into account successful systems in
operation in other comparable banks), to propose new procedures and systems leading to greater reliability
and efficiency and/or higher level of service quality, to design such systems, test and implement them and to
train staff engaged in daily use and/or system maintenance.
Marketing
Most banks have begun to align activities to the requirements of the market. However, banks typically
have no formal marketing function, and staff have no marketing or sales experience. A marketing function
will need to be established within a bank and/or a marketing strategy developed as part of the strategic
plan. New products will have to be developed and new markets entered. Staff may need to be trained in
marketing and sales skills to manage and how to effectively operate in a competitive market economy.
Also, the bank's non-marketing functions and operations may need to be examined for impact on the bank's
marketing goals. The results of that analysis should be considered in the bank's overall review of strategy
and operations; marketing and sales training program on the bank's marketing strategy and on the
techniques and methods of marketing, sales and customer service; advertising and public relations program;
etc.
More specifically, the needed technical assistance may include the following: analysis of the target markets,
product markets, market growth rates and market share; analysis of the customer needs and marketing
image of the bank and its services; marketing strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats analysis for
the bank; marketing strategy for the bank consistent with the bank's overall strategy, including an overall
plan for the bank and individual plans for business units, new product introductions, service innovations
and improvements; plan of organization of marketing and sales at the head-office and branch/business level
(e.g., how business units should best be defined to meet the requirements of customers and the achievement
of the bank's strategic goals); the different organizational arrangements required for retail, small corporate,
private sector clients or the possible requirement to set up specialist units for individual product areas.
- 81 -



Internal Audit and Controls
Currently the scope and depth of intemal audits are limited and audit skills and tools are not sufficient for
the needs of a modem bank. This was a single most troublesome area noted in assessments of participating
banks. In fact, none of the banks had a satisfactory internal audit function and/or level and coverage of
internal controls. An audit function that can meet the control needs of the bank must be developed. As
comprehensive audit policies, procedures and standards do not currently exist, the development of the audit
function may need to be phased; first to deal with critical, current needs, and later, with the balance of
needs as auditable policies, procedures and standards are developed in other modules of work - e.g., credit,
operations, ALM and business planning. The consultant could be asked to develop relevant audit
methodologies, identify the proper scope and depth of audit coverage, specify required follow-up and
monitoring, define reporting standards, define the audit organization and required staffing, and identify
audit skill requirements. Further, consultants may train bank staff in the utilization of new methodologies.
Information Technology and Systems
A typical bank in RS has in place a core system that assists in the administration of most of the central
functions, albeit with some limitations. Such a system is, however, inadequate for the operations and
management of an efficient commercial bank. In line with its strategic plans or business development, a
bank might need technical assistance to develop a sound information technology (IT) strategy and
implementation plan to support bank's transformation into a modern commercial bank with advanced
banking technology. A consultant may be requested to: (i) inventory computer systems. Examine
transactions processing and identify opportunities for automation. Analyze systems in head office and
branches; (ii) critically evaluate bank's current and planned use of IT through relevant comparisons with
successful commercial banks in developed market economies; (iii) identify and address any constraints or
other factors that are peculiar to bank's situation and develop practical technical and human resource
initiatives that can be implemented; (iv) trouble shoot problems in the existing computer applications; (v)
assist the bank to develop the new IT strategy. Define basic management information needs and elaborate
system support for MIS. Propose an overall systems plan with appropriate priorities; (vi) assist the bank
to design and develop specific applications or MIS modules; (vii) assist the bank to test and implement the
new application or MIS; (viii) assist the bank to develop technical specifications, select, purchase and
install new computer systems; (ix) assist the bank with other office technology.
- 82 -



16~                      To Zagreb                   '   ~     ToQsijek
.j'~~V  -            - 7-k  , T7r     ~     C   O   TA1                '    -     C,l-
- -f51 (nJ,  I.. I":   V I. I N y*      -
C                                    .      . ,           '~~ P C ,     Cc
rN~~.           ~         -
L              'te.               - -            J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1~_fc
ITICr , 'a
tII*JL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .c
'I'.-~~~~~der  itul  -  ,,.r.ei  /  '%~~~~~~~~~~~4-
kni ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~~     4'
CROATIA'  J\-bbr.LI~~~~T I*l.."i                            pf'K 
4'  'N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ icr", -  9  -   ,L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Nbr~~~~~~~~~~~
mr   F,C   ... .~w    .+-,,
- -  - ~~~~~~~~~~  I'OI*Jbjb ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     A,a F a
-             .            -  ~~~~~~~ciovr~~~~~~j  I  L-~~~~~~+  ~~~-. _



