Report No. 23454
Report No: I070243 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/30/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA      Project ID: P070243
Project: Private Sector Credit Project Task Team Leader: S.
Brajovic-Bratanovic
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 19, 2000       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: February 28, 2002         IDA Amount ($m): 10.00
Managing Unit: ECSPF     Sector: FS - Financial Sector Development; IL - Small
Scale Enterprise; IY - Other Industry
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL)     Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Background.   Bank's assistance to private sector development in
Bosnia-Herzegovina has been initially focused on reconstruction and on
helping to start regulatory, institutional and policy reforms needed for
transition to a market economy.    The Emergency Pilot Credit Project
(EPCP), which was prepared in early 1998, was among the first Bank
operations aiming to assist in restarting industrial and food production
in Republika Srpska. The project has been successfully implemented. Of
the 139 subprojects financed under the EPCP umbrella, 134 are repaying the
subloans on time. The subloans reached 25 townships and villages and have
had a significant demonstration effect.    At the enterprise level, there
was a dramatic increase in sales (averaging about 80 percent for the
majority of enterprises) and about third of the approved subprojects have
had an export component. The subprojects have created over 700 new
permanent jobs and were among the most important permanent employment
generating entities in their localities. In addition, the EPCP has played
a key role in shaping the development of the regulatory and institutional
framework for the banking sector in Republika Srpska and in directly
stimulating its growth. The donor-financed technical assistance
components have helped the Banking Agency to develop and enact key
prudential regulations and to strengthen its capacity for off-site
surveillance and on-site examinations.
Objectives. In the 1997-2000 period, the growth, fueled by donors'
support for reconstruction, has been strong. However, it is not yet
sustainable.   As indicated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the
country must now take full charge of its economic future and begin to
generate a sustainable growth momentum over the next two-to-three
years.    Building upon advanced accomplished under the EPCP, the proposed
project would continue with assisting the private sector by stimulating
its growth. Its principal objective is to respond to the growing demand
for medium and long term finance by private enterprises and thus help
improve the supply response in manufacturing, related services, food
production and agro-processing. In addition, the project would play an
active role in shaping the development of the banking sector in Republika
Srpska. It is expected to stimulate credit market competition and to
assist in building the institutional capacity of the new privately owned
banks. The technical assistance component will also continue to provide
institution building support to the Banking Agency.



I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will comprise two components. A credit line component of USD7
million would provide private enterprise finance to be extended through
participating privately-owned banks to creditworthy private enterprises
for viable projects. The financing will include investments and/or
incremental, permanent working capital in industry, agro-processing and
the related service sectors. In addition to private sector enterprises,
access to credit will also be open to privatized enterprises providing
that the private sector share exceeds two thirds of the total equity.
Besides supplying much needed funding for the private sector, the project
would play an active role in shaping the development of the banking sector
in Republika Srpska.   A technical assistance component of USD2 million
will provide for technical assistance to be extended to participating
banks and/or to banks interested in participation, and/or to the Banking
Agency.   Funding will be extended to individual banks through TA subloans
and would be available on request. The subloans would be used to fund
improvements of institutional capacity in specific areas, for banking
technology or for training.    Technical assistance for the Banking Agency
is needed to improve its technology, for off-site surveillance systems and
to strengthen its on-site examination capacity.    Additional donor funding
for technical assistance to the Banking Agency has been already discussed.
Components:
Credit Line
Technical Assistance
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The exact locations would depend on subprojects approved to be financed by
the participating banks. The subprojects under the credit line component
are likely to be located throughout the territory of Republika Srpska.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments: The proposed Project will comprise two components: (i) a credit
line to be intermediated by qualified banks, which are able to meet the
participation criteria; and (ii) technical assistance to improve
institutional capacity of banks in Republika Srpska and of the RS Banking
Agency.   Subloans (ranging from USD12,000 to USD220,000) will be
available for private sector projects, providing that the final
beneficiary is creditworthy, that the subproject is financially and
economically viable and that it meets the applicable environmental
regulations.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
-2-



Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The only safeguard issues potentially applicable to the proposed project
are environmental. However, no potentially large scale or significant
environmental issues have been identified or suspected. The project is
not expected to not produce any major or irreversible environmental
impacts. Subprojects that are environmentally unsound or controversial
will not be financed. Average sub-loan size is estimated at DEM 135,000
(USD61,000). The subloans are expected to be used for small investments
to rehabilitate the existing equipment or to address bottlenecks in the
production process, and for purchase of raw materials.
The only potential impact, for some of the subprojects, could be
inappropriate storage of wastage. There are no other adverse
environmental impacts expected. The Operational Guidelines include the
necessary provisions for environmental safeguards.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not applicable.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Any subproject that might be classified as an environmental category A
will not be eligible for financing. Each subproject will be specifically
required to meet the applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Subprojects which do not meet such requirements will not be eligible for
financing.
During subproject implementation: (i) sub-loan agreements for each
subproject will specify required information and safeguards, as
applicable, regarding environmental aspects; (ii) participating banks will
-3 -



be required to check that the subprojects meet the applicable
environmental regulations and have all necessary environmental clearances
issued by competent authorities; and (iii) the project implementation unit
(i.e., the Development and Employment Foundation) would be required to
supervise and ensure that the participating banks effectively discharge
their environmental oversight responsibilities.
This arrangements are included in the Operational Guidelines and in the
Project Implementation Plan.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Participating banks have been informed that the subprojects must meet the
applicable environmental regulations and that any environmentally
controversial subproject with potentially negative environmental impact
will not be eligible for financing.
The Development and Employment Foundation, which will be responsible for
project implementation, is already very experienced. It has been
responsible for implementation of a number of Bank projects, including
Local Development Project, Local Initiatives Project, Community
Development Project and Emergency Labor Redeployment Project. It has
already developed consultation mechanisms with local communities and
effective disclosure mechanisms.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
-4-



Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        S. Brajovic-Bratanovic   11/30/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   12/19/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Paul J. Siegelbaum       12/19/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\February 2, 2002\I070243.txt
January 30, 2002 4:13 PM
-5-



