            Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 34743

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-36080)

               ON A

              CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8 MILLION

                TO

     BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT




          December 30, 2005

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                     Currency Unit = Konvertibilna Marka
                                           BAM 1 = US$ 0.614
                                            US$ 1 = BAM 1.628

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 to  December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Agency - Banking Agency of Republika Srpska
BAC - Business Environment Adjustment IDA Credit
BIS - Bank for International Settlements
BH - Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CLS - Credit Line Section in the DEF
DCA - Development Credit Agreement
DEF - Development and Employment Foundation
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EBPAC - Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment IDA Credit
EPCP - Emergency Pilot Credit Project
EU - European Union
EUR - Euro, Currency of the European Union
FY - Fiscal Year
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
IAS - International Accounting Standards
IDA - International Development Association
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF International Monetary Fund
LIP - Local Initiatives Project (I and II)
MOT - The State Ministry of Treasury
MOU - Memorandum of Understanding
NGO - Non-Governmental Organization
PA - Project Agreement
PFI - Participating Financial Intermediary
PRSP - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS - Republika Srpska
RSBA - Banking Agency of Republika Srpska
SFA - Subsidiary Finance Agreement
SLA - Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SME - Small and Medium Size Enterprises
TA - Technical Assistance
USAID - US Agency for International Development

                                    Vice President:   Shigeo Katzu

              Country Director  Orsalia Kalanzopoulos
               Sector Manager   Gerardo Corrochano
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  S. Brajovic Bratanovic

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                                Private Sector Credit Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P070243                                                  Project Name: Private Sector Credit Project
Team Leader: S. Brajovic-Bratanovic                                  TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Private Sector Credit Project                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-36080
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (71%); Banking (29%)
                  Theme: Standards and financial reporting (P); Export development and
                            competitiveness (P); Other financial and private sector development
                            (P); Small and medium enterprise support (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/02/2000                                     Effective: 06/17/2002                06/17/2002
     Appraisal: 04/19/2000                                         MTR: 10/15/2003                  10/15/2003
      Approval: 02/28/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska /Development and Employment
                                           Foundation; Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska /Banja Luka
                      Other Partners:      Participating Financial Institutions

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Gerardo M. Corrochano                          Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Sonja Brajovic Bratanovic                      Sonja Brajovic Bratanovic
ICR Primary Author:             Sonja Brajovic Bratanovic


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project was conceived under the second Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) covering the 2000-2003
period, where the CAS objectives were to contribute to the creation of a single, viable economic space and
to increase economic opportunities and improve the quality of life for all Bosnians -- with poverty reduction
as an overarching, cross-cutting theme. It remained relevant in the context of the third CAS that was
approved in May 2004. The third CAS supports the Government's poverty reduction strategy, with the
principal objective to create the preconditions for sustainable economic development and private-sector led
growth, to reduce the percentage of the population living below the poverty line and to advance the EU
accession process.

The Private and Financial Sector Development (PSD/FSD) were the critically important pillars for the
CAS implementation. In practical terms, the PSD/FSD strategy supported privatization and creation of an
enabling environment for the sustainable private sector-led growth and increased employment. The
policy-focused adjustment operations included the Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC),
addressing the key issues in the business environment, and Enterprise and Bank Privatization Credit
(EBPAC), which supported privatization and strengthening of a number of market institutions. The
Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC) aimed to accelerate large scale privatization by
preparing the regulatory framework required for divestiture of public utilities and to assist with the tenders
of state-owned enterprises.

This Project was another important elements of the PSD/FSD strategy. Following in the footsteps of a
successful Emergency Pilot Credit Project (EPCP), its objective was to promote SME development by
improving access to finance for the private sector. The sub-loans were expected to stimulate SME growth
and employment in manufacturing, related services, food production and agro-processing. In addition, the
Project was expected to play an active role in shaping the development of the banking sector in Republika
Srpska (RS). It was expected to stimulate credit market competition, to assist in building the institutional
capacity of the new privately owned banks and to improve their governance.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included two components. Component 1- SME Line of Credit: A private enterprise finance
component of SDR 5.53 million extended through privately-owned participating financial intermediaries
(PFI) to creditworthy private enterprises for viable projects. Sub-loans were extended on a first-come,
first-served basis. The decision on whether to extend a sub-loan was left to the PFIs. The sub-loans to
PFIs were extended back-to-back to PFIs' loans to final beneficiaries under the same terms and conditions.
The PFIs took the credit risk. Sub-loans were denominated in EUR and the borrowing enterprises assumed
the currency risk.

In line with the OP8.30, the eligibility criteria for full participation included: (i) licensed and at least two
years of operations; (ii) in a good standing with the Banking Agency (i.e., meets all pertinent prudential and
other applicable laws and regulations) and remains in compliance with RS regulations; (iii) majority
privately owned and its owners and mangers considered "fit and proper"; (iv) maintains at least the
minimum capital, of which at least half as Tier 1 capital, and has the risk-based capital adequacy of at least
12 percent; (v) maintains adequate liquidity, as required and attested by the Banking Agency; (vi) classifies
its assets and off-balance sheet credit risk exposures and makes adequate provisions. Total assets classified



                                                       - 2 -

as substandard, doubtful and loss are less then 35 percent; (vii) positive profitability and maintains the
value of its capital; (viii) qualified and experienced management, well defined policies and written
procedures for management of all financial risks; and (ix) adequate internal audits and controls and
management information systems. An interested commercial bank meeting the minimum criteria were to be
allowed to participate, providing that it signs the Memorandum of Understanding and continues to make
progress leading to full participation.

Beneficiaries were expected to be active in manufacturing, food production or agro-processing, or in related
services. Enterprises were required to demonstrate that they are credit worthy and have prior operating
experience in the activity to be financed, preferably of at least two years. Eligibility criteria for enterprises
included: (i) registered with tax authorities; (ii) majority privately owned (i.e., at least 65 percent of private
equity); (iii) maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than three-to-one (defined as total debt, including
the sub-loan, divided by registered equity); (iv) minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 (defined as
cash earnings after all operating expenses before interest and principal due divided by principal and interest
payments); (v) sufficient working capital, including sub-loan proceeds, to meet all existing and projected
financial obligations in a timely manner; and (vi) sufficient collateral to meet the respective PFI
requirements.

Sub-loans were to finance investments, repair or modernization, and/or incremental permanent working
capital. Private borrowers were expected to have a significant equity stake in the respective enterprise and
to be ready to finance from their own funds at least 25 percent of the project's cost, in order to ensure a
serious interest in the project's success. Proceeds were to be used for equipment and raw materials, repairs
to facilities and minor construction (not to exceed EUR75,000). Each project application was to be
supported by a business plan, a balance sheet and an income statement, and cash-flow projections. Projects
were expected to have an expected financial rate of return of at least 12 percent. Projects were expected to
meet environmental guidelines acceptable to the World Bank.

Investment loans ranged from EUR50,000 to EUR250,000 with maturities of up to five years with up to
one year of grace. Larger amounts and longer maturities required the Bank's no-objection. Working capital
loans were up to EUR125,000 with a maturity of up to three years and a grace period of up to three
months. Interest rate on subsidiary finance was expected to be at the FIBOR level, and not less then four
percent per annum. The interest rate arrangements were reviewed by the Bank, from time to time, and
adjusted to actual market conditions. The PFI's interest spread was limited to a maximum of six percent.
The spread was to be reviewed by the Bank from time to time, and adjusted to reflect the risks and the
applicable market spreads. The PFIs were to extend loans to final beneficiaries at market terms. The
principal amortization and interest payment schedules were to be determined on a case-by-case basis, based
on cash-flow projections, with monthly sub-loan service payments. There were no sub-loan prepayment
penalties, and interest was charged on a declining balance formula. The commitment charges were one
percent on the total unutilized amount.

Component 2 - TA Loans: A credit line for technical assistance of SDR2.31 million for participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs), the Banking Agency, and other banks interested in participation providing
that they are creditworthy. The creditworthiness of banks was to be determined based on their capital
adequacy, asset quality and overall financial condition. The TA funding was available on a first-come,
first-served basis. For each case of an identified TA need, an attempt was made to find donor or alternative
funding. The credit proceeds were to be used only for cases where no alternative funding was available.

The TA sub-loans to banks were to be used to finance: (i) consulting to strengthen institutional capacity,
especially its capacity to identify, appraise, price and manage financial and operational risks; (ii) consulting


                                                       - 3 -

assistance to address any of the issues which threaten or may worsen the financial condition or capital
adequacy of the respective bank; (iii) training necessary to improve any of its banking functions or any of
its financial and/or operational risk management functions; and (iv) investments related to the improvement
of banking technology in the areas related to the improvement of a bank's capacity to appraise and/or
manage its financial and operational risks.

TA sub-loans were denominated in EUR and ranged from EUR25,000 to EUR125,000, with a maturity of
up to three years and up to six months of grace. Interest rate charges were up to six percent per annum.
There was a 100 basis points commitment fee on approved funds that are not yet disbursed. The borrowing
bank assumed the currency risk. The Government assumed the credit risk on banks. The interest rate
arrangements were to be reviewed by the Bank, from time to time, and adjusted as needed. Larger amounts
were potentially available, and required Bank's approval.

Component 3 - Implementation Support: There was also a component of SDR 0.16 million to be used to
cover the incremental operating cost of the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF), which acted
as a project implementation unit (PIU), including training and office technology.

3.4 Revised Components:
The attempts to raise donor or alternative financing for technical assistance to banks were generally
successful.    On the other hand, the funds available for on-lending were exhausted by September 2004.
Government's priority for the use of IDA funds was for the subprojects. In September 2004, there was an
amendment to increase the amount allocated to Component 1 to SDR 7.34 million. The amount for
Component 2 was reduced to SDR 0.5 million.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was subject to quality-at-entry review. The quality was found to be satisfactory. The only
issue was the requirement that at least one bank must be able to fully meet the agreed eligibility criteria.
Unfortunately, at the time when the project was conceived, none of the banks in RS was able to meet the
eligibility criteria. (At that time, the banking sector in RS comprised of 17 banks, of which ten were
majority socially-owned and one was created by carving out banking operations from the Payment Bureau
and a postal savings system.) The team continued to work with banks until VB Bank was able to fully met
the eligibility criteria and Nova Bank to meet the minimum criteria allowing its participation under the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). The project was appraised about one year after identification. It
was approved by the Board on February 28, 2002 and became effective on June 17, 2002.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Private sector access to credit in Republika Srpska has dramatically improved in the 2002 to 2005 period.
The volume of credit extended to private enterprises in RS, which at end-2002 totaled BAM 377 million,
increased by over three times to about BAM 1,25 billion on June 30, 2005. The credit interest rates of
foreign currency denominated loans fall from about 15-22 percent in 2001 to 7-10 percent in mid-2005.
While a number of forces was at work, the Project has been an important contributor to encouraging and
stimulating competition and changes in dynamics of the RS banking markets.




                                                       - 4 -

The Project has effectively fulfilled its objectives. It has improved access to term credit for investment and
working capital finance for the private sector, both by providing IDA funding and by improving banks'
capacity to appraise and manage the credit risk. Investments financed by the Project have increased the
earnings and profitability of private enterprises, as well as their employment and income generation
capacity. The banks were encouraged to focus on less developed regions. In many cases, the impact of the
Project was further enlarged through spill-over and demonstration effects.       Better management of credit
risk has increased banks' self-confidence and thus willingness to extend credit from their own funds,
further increasing the beneficial effects of the Project.     Reduction of credit losses, due more effective
management of credit risk, was another beneficial factor allowing/contributing to the reduction of interest
rates and better credit terms for the private sector.

The Project had an important institutional development impact for the banks domiciled in RS. It has
provided regular diagnostic reviews of participating banks' financial condition, governance, risk
management and execution of the key institutional functions. All banks were encouraged to participate,
and all banks active in RS have been appraised at some point. The on-going dialogue was maintained with
banks that were able to meet the eligibility criteria and banks that were willing to cooperate and make
progress. In effect, all larger banks operating in RS were actively involved in the Project. The technical
findings were regularly shared with banks' senior management, followed by hands-on assistance for
institutional strengthening and encouraging the adoption of safe and sound banking practices. For the small
(just privatized) banks with inexperienced owners, the Project was initially the only easily accessible and
non-threatening source of technical advice.

The primary focus of the technical advice was to improve banks' governance and asset/liabilities
management, and their capacity to identify, assess, price and manage banking risks. Especially important
was credit risk management, including banks' lending policies, appraisal of client's creditworthiness and
project economic and financial viability, lending procedures and practices, and loan supervision and
administration. The dialogue with banks' management was confidential and on-going. (Senior banks'
management was encouraged to share concerns over the telephone and E-Mail, between Bank missions).
Comprehensive TORs were drafted for the TA needed and help was provided to mobilize donor funding,
where available. Banks were encouraged to use their own funds and, if this was not enough, they were able
to borrow from the TA component.          Assistance was provided for any matter considered important by
banks' senior management, including raising additional (foreign) capital. In cases of issues with potentially
systemic impact, the findings were shared with the RS Banking Agency. (In most cases, issues shared with
the with RS Banking agency concerned the quality of bank's governance and the (less then arms-length)
relationship with the dominant private shareholders.)

The Project has also provided an opportunity to play an active role in shaping the development of the
banking sector in RS, by stimulating competition in the banking markets and improving safety and stability
of the RS banking sector.     Banks were requested to respect the decisions of the RS Banking Agency and
to share their concerns, so that systemic issues could be promptly identified and timely addressed. Banks
were encouraged to open branches in the Federation, thus contributing to the creation of a single economic
space. Notable improvements in financial condition and business opportunities of banks domiciled in RS
were duly noted and banks' were getting increasing attention of reputable foreign investors, including major
international banks active in the Balkans. In the second half of the Project implementation period, there
were many foreign equity investments. Ultimately, the changes in the ownership structure are likely to
result in full integration of the banking markets in Bosnia, within the next two to three years. Further
details are discussed in the Annexes 1 and 3.

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                      - 5 -

SME Sub-loans. The PSC included direct financing of 59 subprojects, with sub-loans totaling EUR 8.9
million. The appraisal of development impact was based on "before" and "after" the subproject. The
sample used to assess the impact included 42 enterprises (for which the information was available, with
sub-loans approved in 2002, 2003 and 2004), or about 70 percent of the total sub-loans by number and
amount. The following table shows the structure of the sample used to assess the project impact.

         Beneficiaries by Industry Branches
                                         No of Sample      Sample           Total No. of     Total
               Industry Branch           Enterprises          %            Beneficiaries       %
          Wood-processing Industry             11            26.8                18            30.0
         Construction materials                7              17.1                8            13.5
         Metal Industry                        6              14.6                7            12.0
         Agriculture, Food Processing          12             29.3               21            35.5
         Textile and Leather Industry          2              4.9                 2            3.4
         Other                                 3              7.3                 3            5.6
          TOTAL                                41               100.0            59             100.0



The impact study included capital, income, profit, employment and exports by comparing the values in the
reference year before a subproject was approved (with financial reports received with a sub-loan
application) with those in later years after the subproject has been implemented (2001, 2002, 2003 and
2004, as applicable). In order to ensure objectivity, the information for the later years was obtained from
the Agency for Registry, Informatics and Financial Services in Banja Luka (which collects information on
enterprises' financial statements).       More details are provided in the respective DEF impact and
sustainability reports. It should be noted that the benefits are cited as of end-2004. The benefits for
enterprises will further increase with each year.

         Percentage Increase Attributed to Participation in the Project
     Subprojects:            Approved in 2002        Approved in 2003              Approved in 2004
     Effects on:               (End 2001-End       (End 2002-End 2004)          (End 2003-End 2004)
                                    2004)
     Income                         62%                     33%                         19%
     Profit                         592%                     11%                         0%
     Capital                         90%                     56%                         24%
     Employment                      40%                     28%                         1%
     Exports                         64%                     45%                         n.a
         Information on capital, total income and number of permanent employees was available for the whole
         2001-2004 period, on profit for the year 2004, and on exports for the year 2003.

The benefits from subprojects differed by the type of project and industry branch. However, it is safe to
say that all beneficiaries were significantly better off after the subprojects were implemented. For the
sub-loans that were approved in 2002 (i.e., the subprojects were fully implemented and the new businesses
or facilities about two years in operation), the total income increased by an average of 62 percent, profits
were about six times larger, the capital has almost doubled, etc. For the sub-loans approved in 2003,
where the new facilities had about 12-18 months in operation, income increased by about 33 percent and
the effects on profitability, capital, permanent employment and exports capacity were already significant.
The effects were not evident for the sub-loans approved in 2004, as many of the subprojects were not fully
implemented and the sub-loans were still in the grace period.




                                                       - 6 -

The sub-loan repayments have created a revolving fund, which was used to extend more sub-loans. In
2004, the revolving fund created by the Project was integrated with the revolving fund created under the
EPCP. There were an additional 32 subprojects financed from the revolving fund in 2004. The benefits
from these subprojects (extended by banks that were unable to meet the eligibility criteria required for
direct participation) were comparable to those extended under the Project. The repayment rate under the
revolving fund was also 100 percent. The revolving fund could remain active indefinitely, as the interest
margin charged on loans financed from the revolving fund will generate enough to repay the IDA credits as
they become due. Given the typical terms of SME sub-loans so far, the annual SME funding capacity
would amount to about USD 5 million (that is, about 15-20 new subprojects per year). In the last few
months of Project implementation, technical assistance has been provided to institutionalize the DEF, so it
could continue to assist in improving access to term funding for private enterprises. The details are further
described in the Sustainability section.

Technical Assistance Sub-loans. There were five TA sub-loans, which were extended to three banks
(VB, Nova and Bobar). The TA funding was used to support introduction of credit card/electronic
payment instruments and interactive telephone banking services, for consulting services to improve
operational and financial risk management, and for institution building programs related to modernization
of banks' information technology (IT). The IT related financing included comprehensive audits of database
integrity and transaction processing systems' design, purchase of software licenses, and TA for back-up
and disaster recovery systems. Relatively few TA sub-loans financed from the IDA credit proceeds provide
an incorrect impression of the amount of TA actually provided to banks during Project implementation. In
general, once a problem or a need was identified (either in the process of bank appraisal or by bank's
management), the respective terms of reference were readily provided to the bank. Banks were advised to
use the TA sub-loans as a worst-case scenario, after all other possibilities (typically donor funding or
self-funding) were exhausted. (The Government preferred that IDA funds be used for private sector
financing, rathen than for technical assistance to banks.)

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There were no significant price distortions in the macroeconomic environment in the period of project
implementation, as the market environment remained liberal with the Currency Board in place.

The net present value and economic rate of return concept is not applicable to the project as a whole.
However, each subproject was subject to credit analysis at appraisal, including financial and economic
analysis. The economic rate of return was expected top be at least 15 percent for each subproject. In fact,
the economic rate of return was well over 20 percent. The economic rate of return differed by the type of
subproject and industry branch. On average, it took about 12-24 months after the subproject
implementation was completed to reach the full economic rate of return. For subprojects in agriculture and
food-processing (about 35 percent of the total), the rate of return is more volatile since the income/profit
also depended on agricultural yields, which normally affect the prices of inputs for the food processing
industry. However, for about 60 percent of beneficiaries, the economic rate of return is expected to remain
stable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial appraisals were performed on a subproject-by-subproject basis, as part of the appraisal of
eligibility of individual borrowers and subprojects. This included the calculation of the financial rate of
return and of incremental financial benefits and costs to the final beneficiary based on "with-subproject"
and "without-subproject" analysis. Assumptions underlying financial benefits and forecasts (such as prices
for key inputs and outputs, market outlooks for projections, or inflation) were regularly reviewed and
adjusted, as needed. The subprojects were expected to have the minimum financial rate of return of 15



                                                     - 7 -

percent. In the process of risk assessment, sensitivity analysis was performed for each subproject,
including sensitivity to exchange rate devaluation, to price decreases in the expected product/services
market and to increases in operating cost.

In addition, the subproject appraisal included the assessment of the beneficiary's financial condition based
on historical and projected financial statements, using financial ratio analysis and comparisons with
relevant industry standards. It also included assessment of business plan and investment programs,
assessment of market position and the sources of competitiveness and of stability in the respective markets.
On-site visits were practices by the DEF/CLS unit to interview management and confirm that the
assumptions used in subproject appraisal were correct.

In fact, the financial rate of return was well over 20 percent, although it varied from subproject to
subproject. On average, it took about 12-24 months after the subproject implementation was completed to
reach the full financial rate of return. For the subprojects in agriculture and food-processing (about 35
percent of the total) the rate of return is more volatile since the income/profit also depended on agricultural
yields, which normally affect the prices of inputs for the food processing industry.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had an important institutional development impact. The Bank maintained contacts and
provided assistance to all larger banks in RS. The Bank's presence has helped to improve governance and
has been instrumental in introducing arms-length rules that have protected the banks from too close
relationships with the connected parties.        Great attention has been paid to improving the capacity to
identify, assess, price and manage banking risks (both financial and operational). All banks were provided
assistance to: (i) introduce asset/liabilities management committee (ALCO); (ii) improve treasury functions,
with proper attention to funding structure and liquidity management; (iii) introduce internal controls and
internal audits; (iv) improve consistency of their IT support; and (v) introduce new services and products,
such as e-payment instruments. Especially important was the improvement in credit risk management.
Appraisal of client's creditworthiness and of project economic and financial viability and loan supervision
and administration have received a lot of attention. Analytical tools and training have been provided by the
Bank, or arranged as needed.

         Changes for Large Banks Participating in the Project
                                                Nova         VB/LHB        Razvojna          Zepter        Nova Banjalucka
          Assets               12/2002          83.7          64.6          188.8             80.4             179.8
         (KM mil.)             06/2005         270.8          144.8         348.4            184.7             244.9
                               % incr.          222             124           85              129                36
          Capital              12/2002          13.6           18.7          16.1             19.1              17.1
         (KM mil.)             06/2005          37.3           23.5          27.4             21.8              25.8
                               % incr.          174             26            70              14                 51
          Credits              12/2002          43.6           34.3          63.3             47.8              93.8
         (KM mil.)             06/2005         133.2           70.4         185.1             91.5             141.1
                               % incr.          205             105          193              91                 50
    Credits to SMEs            12/2002          29.1           15.1          17.8             37.6              24.2
        (KM mil.)              06/2005          68.3           32.3          95.0             63.8              81.3
                               % incr.          135            114           427              69                236
          Income               12/2002          17.9            8.4          6.9              14.1              27.6
         (KM mil.)             12/2004          27.4           10.8          38.6             22.2              29.6
                               % incr.           53             28           459              57                  7
           Profit              12/2002          2.33            2.6          0.4              0.50              0.29
         (KM mil.)             12/2004          2.34            3.2          2.8              0.35              1.4




                                                       - 8 -

                               12/2002          0             23           600                -30             382


As shown in survey responses, the banks' senior management appreciate the contribution of the Project to
developing institutional capacity of RS banks. The Project has also contributed to the development of
credit awareness, knowledge and skills and to building a credit culture, especially in the less developed and
less populated regions of RS. The DEF held regular training sessions with SME owners and entrepreneurs,
explaining how to prepare credit applications and how the banks will analyze their submissions. In many
locations, banks have joined and organized the SME training.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Project was implemented on schedule and expected objectives were met. There were no incidents
jeopardizing implementation or achievement of Project objectives.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The key factor that has positively affected the Project was the continuous effort to increase the pace of
banking reforms in Bosnia and to integrate financial markets in the Federation and in RS. The increasingly
demanding licensing, minimum capital, credit risk management and internal control requirements for the
commercial banks provided a good framework for the Project's advisory work in improving the
institutional capacity of RS banks.

Institutionally, the banks in the Federation were ahead of RS banks, they had more products and better
services at lower cost. Moreover, some of the larger banks started to penetrate RS banking markets. This
has inspired RS banks to try to defend their domestic markets, as well as to try to expand to markets in the
Federation. At the same time, competing with banks in the Federation meant that institutional,
management, product and services quality standards became much higher. This provided another good
stimulus for RS banks to participate in the Project and undertake more ambitious institutional development
programs. The Government's efforts to strengthen the commercial banking sector was supported by TA
from many donors. The RS Banking Agency benefited from donor funding, thus saving funds for the credit
line component.

The persistence of a less than favorable business environment in the country has had a negative impact, in
that the benefits of the Project for SMEs would have been even greater with a more enabling business
environment. While there was some progress in this area, it did not go as far as it could have in eliminating
legal and administrative barriers for the SMEs. The excessive bureaucracy continues to increase
transaction costs, push some businesses into the shadow economy, and create conditions for corruption.
The lack of progress in this area is evident from the failure of the Government to meet the tranche release
conditions for the BAC.

Another factor that has affected implementation, especially at the beginning, was the complex relationship
between the RS Ministry of Finance and the Bosnia's State Ministry of Treasury, which has negatively
affected disbursements from the Credit Account and replenishments of the Special Account. However,
once the allocation to the Special Account was increased, this problem disappeared.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The main factors subject to the control of the implementing agency were the effective, diligent and timely
processing of sub-loans under the line of credit component, including accounting and reporting to the Bank
on implementation progress. Overall, the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF) had rather
efficient project management, monitoring, reporting and internal controls systems. The turn-around time,


                                                     - 9 -

which is often a problem with the Bank's credit lines, has not been an issue in this Project. In spite of DEF
taking an active role in appraising the credit risk, the turn-around time was, on average, less than two
weeks from the moment when a bank's credit application was submitted to the DEF. The repayment rate
for credits has been 100 percent, which is rather unusual for developing countries. In fact, the repayment
rate on the Bank-related portfolio was significantly higher than for credit portfolios of other international
financial institutions and donors active in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

The Credit Line Section (CLS) of the DEF was responsible for sub-loan approval, procurement
management and subproject supervision and for general relationships with the participating financial
intermediaries. It has successfully built credit risk appraisal expertise and has been proactive in ensuring
efficient utilization of Bank funds. After a PFI submitted a sub-loan application, the credit risk was
appraised, including the borrower's creditworthness and the subproject viability. Before the Bank was
asked for clearance, each potential beneficiary received a site visit by the CLS, to check the credibility of
the sub-loan application and borrower's capacity to implement the subproject. The site was again visited
after the completion of the subproject, to ensure that the credit proceeds were used as intended and the
borrower was able to execute the business plan. All was duly documented, including "before" and "after"
pictures.

The DEF also had an active stance in trying to reduce the administrative burden for participating banks.
Instead of banks' preparing implementation reports, the DEF took over preparation of all reports required
by the Bank. In order to reduce the turn-around time, the CLS learned about potential sub-projects at the
time when they were considered by participating banks, well ahead of the formal credit application.
Furthermore, the CLS conducted events for entrepreneurs and for bank loan officers to impart expertise
and to disseminate information about sub-project appraisal techniques and information that needed to be
prepared and submitted with the credit application. The CLS had identified a readily available support
structure to help the potential beneficiaries with business plans and financial projections. In some complex
cases, the CLS has been actively involved in preparing the credit documentation.

The DEF has a specialized Financial Management (FM) Section. The FM section has been responsible
for: (i) accounting and management of project accounts. This was successful, as evidenced by the
repeatedly positive opinions issued annually by the external auditors of project accounts; (ii) FM reporting
was timely and proper, according to Bank's specifications; (iii) disbursements, occasional issues were due
to inefficiencies of other parties involved in the funds-management interface between the Bank and the
DEF, including the RS Ministry of Finance and the Bosnia's State Ministry of Treasury; and (iv) collection
of sub-loan repayments, which was without problems.

Although not directly related to Project implementation, an area where the FM Section could have been
more effective was management of the revolving funds formed from sub-loan repayments. During project
implementation, revolving funds were utilized, but not actively managed. The revolving fund from the
Project was integrated with the revolving fund remaining under the EPCP only in 2004. The first
competitive bidding for the fund-managing bank took place in 2005.

The relationship between the Bank and the DEF was excellent at all times.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the Project estimated at appraisal was USD 16 million equivalent. At completion, the
total cost was USD 27.36 million equivalent. As explained below, the increase was due to the depreciation
of US dollar and because the beneficiaries and their banks financed a higher percentage of the total cost
then originally anticipated.



                                                      - 10 -

At the time of Board approval, the IDA Credit was SDR 8 million, which was equivalent to USD 10
million. Due to the USD devaluation, the total IDA funding available at the credit closing date was USD
11.4 equivalent. Of this, about USD 90,000 (SDR 67,917) was not utilized and was subsequently
cancelled as of August 25, 2005. The cancellation occurred because the Financial Management Unit of
the DEF was not aware that the fluctuations in USD exchange rate in the April to June 2005 period would
result in availability of additional funding on the credit closing date.

The total funding for the SME credit component was USD 21.55 million. At the time of appraisal, it was
expected to be USD 10 million and that the beneficiary and its bank would co-finance about 30 percent of
the total cost of sub-projects. In reality, the beneficiaries co-financed about 50 percent of the total cost of
their sub-projects. IDA funding for the Line of Credit component totaled USD 10.78 million equivalent.
This includes SDR 1.81 million reallocated in September 2004. The background is the following: In
September 2004, the entire amount available for the line of credit was fully committed. Given the slow
utilization of the TA, the authorities felt that the additional funding for the line of credit would be better
utilized and, consequently, all unutilized amounts were reallocated to the line of credit component.

The total funding for the TA component was USD 5.51 million, i.e., about 10 percent less then originally
estimated.    IDA funding was USD 0.72 million equivalent. During project preparation , it was expected
that the TA recipients would co-finance about 50 percent of the total cost of a TA item. However, in most
cases the banks were happy to finance by themselves the TA needed to address the issues identified in the
process of bank's appraisal. In cases when the banks used the TA funding, the cofinancing averaged about
85 percent, that is, significantly higher then expected. The Banking Agency was able to raise the needed
donor funding from US AID and did not use any of the IDA proceeds. In late 2004, the remaining TA
funds were reallocated to the credit line component.

For the incremental operating cost, the total needs were estimated at USD 200,000 to be financed by IDA.
The contribution of the Government of USD 100,000 equivalent was for the offices and office IT of the
DEF staff involved in project implementation. This is equivalent to 30 percent contribution to the
incremental operating cost.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely.

Sustainability of Sub-Projects Benefits. The PSC included 59 subprojects, with sub-loans totaling EUR
8.9 million. As discussed in the "Objectives and Output Section" the sample used to assess the development
impact included 42 enterprises, or about 70 percent of the total sub-loans by number and amount. The
finding was that the beneficiaries were significantly better off some time after the subprojects were
implemented. The table below summarized the effects by year in which the sub-loans were approved. For
the sub-loans that were approved in 2002, where the subprojects were fully implemented with the new
facilities about two years in operation, the income increased by an average of 62 percent, profits were
about six times larger, the capital almost doubled, etc. The effects were still significant for enterprises
where the investments were less then 12-18 months in operation. It seems to be clear that once the new
facilities were in full operation, the benefits would remain sustainable.

         Effects on Key Business Parameters Attributed to Participation in the Project
      Subprojects:          Approved in 2002          Approved in 2003            Approved in 2004



                                                       - 11 -

     Effects on:            (End 2001-End          (End 2002-End 2004)          (End 2003-End 2004)
                                 2004)
     Income                       62%                       33%                         19%
    Profit                       592%                       11%                          0%
    Capital                       90%                       56%                          24%
    Employment                    40%                       28%                          1%
    Exports                       64%                       45%                          n.a
         Information on capital, total income and number of permanent employees was available for the whole
         2001-2004 period, on profit for the year 2004, and on exports for the year 2003.

In order to evaluate the credibility of the assumption that the Project results are and would remain
sustainable, the beneficiaries under the Emergency Pilot Credit Project (EPCP) were used as a control
group. The EPCP was a predecessor of the Private Sector Credit project. It became effective in June 1998
and closed in June 2000. There were 109 sub-loans approved, with a total value of EUR 7.7 million. The
EPCP ended as a successful project, with 97 percent sub-loan repayment rate. The sub-loans reached 25
townships and villages. At the enterprise level, the most pronounced was an increase in sales (averaging
about 80 percent for the majority of enterprises) and employment (about seven additional employees per
subproject), and about third of the approved subprojects have had an export component.

The EPCP beneficiaries sustainability study was prepared using the same methodology and information
sources as for the Project performance assessment. The sustainability study sample included 56 enterprises
(56 percent of the total number) for which the data was readily available from public sources (Further
details are available in the sustainability study prepared by the DEF).        Comparison of the data from the
reference year (1998) with the year 2004, shows that the results were sustainable and that the beneficiaries
continued to do well. The income of the sample income increased for an average 167 percent, capital
increased by 178 percent and profit increased by about five times. Employment continued to increase, as
well as the export performance.

Effects on Key Business Parameters Attributed to Participation in EPCP
Values at End 2004 Versus the Reference Year 1998
 Effects on:                                 1998         2004          Change
 Income (KM million)                         22.45        59.99           167%
 Employment (persons)                         705         1.130            60%
Capital (KM million)                         12.47        34.72           178%
 Profit (KM million)                         0.54         3.24            495%
 Export (KM million, end 2003)               0.12         15.18         12,564%


A similar study was also performed for beneficiaries of the revolving fund created by the EPCP project,
which has remained active and was later enlarged with the revolving funds generated under the project. In
the 2001-2004 period, there were 155 subprojects financed from the revolving fund, with a repayment rate
of over 97 percent. During project implementation, revolving funds were mostly used by banks which have
been appraised and have shown adequate progress in improving their institutional capacity and financial
condition, but which were not able to fully meet the eligibility criteria.

Changes and Growth in the Banking Sector. Major changes took place in the 2002-2005 period
regarding the size and structure of the banking sector and markets in RS. While the Project has not been the
only factor, it has facilitated the changes and/or helped to open the doors for banks to seize new
opportunities. In evaluation letters provided by presidents (or general directors) of major RS banks
(covering over 90 percent of the RS banking market), the contribution of the project on developments in



                                                      - 12 -

the banking sector is rated as "significant". While only three banks were able to fully meet the eligibility
criteria (Nova, VB and Raiffeisen), significant effort was made and technical assistance provided to
another four banks (especially Zepter, Razvojna and Nova Banjalucka) that have utilized access to the
revolving fund. This has resulted in strong growth of assets and of branch network of RS banks and much
better access to credit and financial services throughout RS. The professionalism of the banking sector has
improved and public confidence in the banking sector has increased. The Project has also been has been
instrumental in helping to build a credit culture with good repayment records.

The changes which took place in the 2002-2005 period are expected to be permanent. The ownership
structure in the banking sector has changed from state ownership to domestic private ownership to
attracting equity investments of major international commercial banks active in the Balkans. VB Bank (in
2003) and Razvojna Bank (in 2005) have joined the LHB Banking Group, which has also taken equity
positions in some Federation banks. (The LHB is domiciled in Germany, but with majority Belgian and
Slovenian capital). The next item on the agenda is the consolidation of these holdings into a bank
effectively covering the entire Bosnian market. This seems to be a wide-spread trend. Nova Bank has been
taken over by Poteza Investment Fund from Slovenia and Zepter Bank is finalizing discussions with the
same investor. Poteza reportedly intends to consolidate the two and sell them to Uni Credit (a major Italian
bank). Nova Banjalucka is having discussions with HVB (a major German bank). Kristal Bank has been
taken over by Hypo Alpe Adria, and is in the process of consolidation with Hypo-owned bank in the
Federation. The involvement of major international commercial banks seem to indicate that the changes in
the RS banking markets are permanent and that the current trends will continue.

Institutional Arrangements to Improve Access to Term Finance for SMEs.                  The formation of an
institution with an objective to facilitate access to term funding for the SMEs has not been among the
Project's objectives. However, the high repayment rates of sub-loans under the Project and under the
revolving fund, which are expected to continue, indicated that a more permanent solution beyond the
Project implementation period would be possible.       The projections of DEF cash-flows in the 2005-2036
period, by when all IDA funds will be repaid, were prepared in October 2004. They confirmed that the
DEF operations are self-financing and sustainable in the long run and that the DEF could be a viable
financial institution if the repayment rates remain as high as they have been historically. The total funding
at DEF disposal in 2036 will remain at about the same level as in 2005 (i.e., about BAM 70 million), while
all IDA credits will be repaid. (The projections are provided as supporting documentation).

After numerous discussions and TA provided to the authorities and the DEF, it was decided that the DEF
would become a specialized non-bank financial institution active in managing the revolving funds. The
DEF Law establishing the legal basis for its operations as a non-bank financial institution was enacted in
October 2005.      The DEF would continue to act as a source of specialized funding for domestic banks,
while meeting the objectives of the original Bank projects. It would remain independent in its day-to-day
operations, but its funding decisions should be confirmed by the Credit Committee. It would be governed
by the supervisory board (including representatives of the Government and other interested bodies). The
terms and conditions of its funding (i.e., re-financing of loans extended by banks and other suitable
financial intermediaries) would generally be the same as under the original Bank operations. Its operating
cost would remain well within its operating income. The DEF would be expected to repay to the Bank the
respective IDA credits (EPCP, PSC, LIP I, LIP II and LDP) using income from its operations. The donor
funding provided under the EPCP (one Austrian grant, one UK grant, two Dutch grants and one Swedish
grant) would become the capital for the DEF. The capital would be increased by annual additions of net
profit from its operations.

A good capital base and successful operations in the appraisal of credit risk and funds management (as


                                                     - 13 -

evidenced by a consistent nearly 100 percent repayment rate) provide a sound basis allowing the DEF to
diversify or even raise additional SME funding.         As the project was nearing completion,          technical
assistance was provided to the DEF to see how it could further diversify its business activities and continue
to operate as an independent provider of finance and marketing related services to SMEs, especially those
in rural settings which are impaired in their access to information and have few business contacts. It is
very well qualified to provide the essential public-good service of managing investment funding and
investment project supervision for other donors or international organizations, or even private investors.
The DEF would be able to win contracts as the most qualified bidder on a competitive basis.

The Risk Factors. The expected mergers affecting practically all larger RS banks, as well as changes
regarding supervisory authority, could result in some disturbances in the short-term, All major banks in
RS have been successful in attracting foreign capital. Since the foreign owners would like to cover the
whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the RS banks are expected to merge with banks in the
Federation purchased by the same foreign owners. Bank mergers could be rather complex, leading to
temporary disruption of normal banking activities. Integration of the RS and Federation Banking Agencies
(the regulatory and bank supervision functions) into the Central Bank is also being discussed. Given the
trends of integration of banking markets in Bosnia, this would be a logical step. The merger presents
opportunities in terms of economies of scope and operations. However, it will involve bringing together
two relatively distinct, complex agencies, which could be a challenge.

Regional instability, medium-term macroeconomic risks and/or possible shifts or delays in systemic
reforms could negatively affect stability and business environment, which could negatively affect
sustainability. A slowing of economic growth and/or a recession could discourage further financial
deepening, and adversely affect the quality of banks' assets. Bosnia's public debt and fiscal deficit could
aggravate the macroeconomic situation. In addition, elections might result in changes of government
priorities or in political instability, which would adversely affect (but are unlikely to totally derail) banking
markets and private sector growth perspectives. However, these risks are not considered at present to be an
imminent threat to the sustainability of the Project results.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For private beneficiaries, there were no transitional arrangements other then a grace period. By the credit
closing date, all subprojects were fully implemented and the beneficiaries were in regular operation. For
the banks, the provided technical assistance did not require any specific transitional arrangements.

The DEF was originally intended to be a simple project implementation unit. However, many Bank
projects for which the DEF was engaged as implementation unit, including this Project, created revolving
funds that had close to 100 percent repayment rates. So, there was a need to continue managing funds after
the closing date of the respective credits. After long discussions with the Government, it seemed that the
most effective solution would be to transform the DEF into a specialized non-bank financial institution that
would continue to play the same role, of assisting in access to term funds under the terms and conditions
that are similar to those under the original Bank projects. The future operations of the DEF should be
subject to the same rigorous standards that applied to any other institutions involved in Bank projects.

The Bank TA for institutionalization of the DEF was provided under this Project and started already in
mid-2004, as the last three of the IDA credits (PSC, LIP II and LDP, which all create revolving funds)
were to close by the end of June 2005. In the June 2004 to October 2005 period, the following was
accomplished:

(i) In July 2004, the terms and conditions for loans financed under the revolving funds remaining from the



                                                     - 14 -

EPCP and the associated grants were made the same as for sub-loans extended under the Project. The
revolving funds from the EPCP and the Project were consolidated, thereby allowing for better utilization of
the collected funds.

(ii) In July 2005, a transparent selection process was defined and applied to select a bank to manage the
revolving fund account. The bank was selected based on technical capacity, the interest rates offered on
unutilized funds, and the fee to be charged for funds transfer. The bidding for management of the revolving
funds account should be repeated every two years or so, to ensure that the terms offered to the DEF remain
competitive.

(iii) The relationship with financial intermediaries will be consolidated and more effective. The on-lending
relationship with a bank will be covered by a single subsidiary finance agreement covering all types of
finance and services to be offered by the DEF, with a separate loan contract to be signed for each specific
sub-loan extended to the bank. Until mid-2005 with a number of Bank projects still under implementation,
a separate relationship was maintained and separate contracts were signed for each Bank project (and each
Bank project was supervised by a different Bank team).

(iv) The loan collection process will be optimized, in that the collections from a bank would be consolidated
and executed on the same date for all refinanced sub-loans, to minimize the charges for payment
transactions.

(v) Some changes were suggested in the revolving funds management processes to make it more efficient.
For example, certain flexibility has been introduced to allow for temporary utilization of revolving funds
created by one Bank project for which there is no demand at the moment for purposes of another Bank
project where there is an excess demand. For example, if there is no demand for sub-loans to SMEs
(revolving fund created by the EPCP or the Project) and there is an excess demand for micro-finance
(revolving fund created by the LIP I and II), the funds can be transferred and temporarily utilized for
micro-finance.

(vi) A special DEF Law has been prepared and discussed. The DEF Law under which the DEF will be
incorporated as a non-bank financial institution has been enacted by the RS Parliament in October 2005.

(vii) New organization and staffing profiles were developed in September 2005, to better reflect the new
business orientation of the DEF. The DEF will be organized by business products, rather by Bank project
implementation units. Some of the existing staff would have to be retrained or asked to leave, and new
staff would have to be recruited.

(viii) New procedures were developed and rules redefined for various business functions in the DEF,
already existing or expected. For example, processes related to credit risk management, including loan
pre-appraisal and appraisal, simplified application process for smaller or simple loans, loan supervision,
appraisal of financial condition of partner financial institutions, etc.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Project was a part of the Bank's CAS and a follow-up project to the successful
Emergency Private Credit Project (EPCP). The design was based on lessons learned from the EPCP and a
thorough analysis of the key issues, both regarding the SME access to finance and the priorities of banking



                                                     - 15 -

reform in RS and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was consistent with the Government's poverty reduction
strategy and priorities and with the Bank's CAS. Project preparation benefited from the two policy-based
operations that were prepared/implemented at the same time (the EBPAC and the BAC). Coordination was
maintained with other international financial organizations and donors (IFC, USAID, GtZ).

The preparation was fast and straightforward. The Credit Line Section (CLS, acting as a project
implementation management unit) was placed with the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF),
where there already was an adequate capacity for financial management and procurement. The only issue
at the time of preparation was that none of the RS banks interested in participation was able to fully meet
the eligibility criteria mandated by the Banks Operational Policies (OP8.30). Given that the Project's
development objective was to stimulate banking reforms, a decision was made to delay the appraisal rather
then start by accepting banks that are not able to meet the criteria. The team continued to work with banks
to encourage them to improve their financial condition and institutional capacity. Eventually, one of the
banks was able to meet the criteria and, thereafter, the preparation was completed in record time. Another
two banks met the eligibility criteria in the period before effectiveness.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The project objectives were clearly defined and the performance indicators realistic. Project
reporting has been timely and of good quality. The ratings and the risk assessments were realistic. There
were regular supervision missions in the field (about two per fiscal year). The Bank appraised/worked with
the interested banks and made site visits to the largest and most complex projects during supervision
missions. Formal supervision missions were supplemented with short technical visits, particularly by the
financial management specialists. Field office staff played a substantive role in overseeing the financial
management and procurement. There were many areas where extra steps were taken to encourage
implementation and increase sustainability.

The Bank has 'a-priori' reviewed and cleared over 95 percent of all sub-loan applications. The sub-loan
applications were either reviewed during Bank's missions or sent to Washington to be reviewed and cleared
by the Bank, before being discussed by the DEF Credit Committee. There were on-going, practically daily,
consultations (via E-Mail and telephone) with the DEF Credit Line Section in the process of subproject
appraisal. Additional questions were raised, where needed, and detailed instructions were given to the
respective banks and the DEF Credit Line Section. Credit specialists in the CLS were expected to make a
visit to each project site and have detailed discussions with the potential beneficiaries. As a result, the
sub-loan repayment rate has been a steady 100 percent.

There was also active involvement in addressing potential issues that could have negatively affected the
sub-project or the beneficiary's business, including technical and financial management capacity, and
business environment. In cases where there were some noted issues with the local business environment,
Bank missions had discussions with the local authorities. The authorities were asked to take certain
actions that would facilitate project implementation and generally address the identified issue in the
business environment so other SMEs could also benefit. (This typically concerned issues in getting permits
and licenses, in inspections and incidents of corruption). The identified macro-level issues in the business
environment were duly reported to the country authorities and to the Bank team working on business
environment.

The interaction among the Bank, Government agencies, participating banks and the Chamber of Commerce
was excellent. In many cases, Bank missions took the initiative to talk to local authorities and banking
supervision authorities, when a broader issue was identified (say, in a business environment) that needed to
be addressed. For example, policy issues discussed with the central bank included the lack of central bank


                                                      - 16 -

facilities for cash management, rules and reimbursement for obligatory reserves, certain regulations for
liquidity management, the lack of intebank money market, rules and practices for tax inspections, etc.
There were regular discussions with the RS Banking Agency (BA), making sure that the RSBA supported
recommendations made by missions to individual banks. In some cases, the RSBA was called to follow-up
on identified issues. For example, the RSBA was called to intervene regarding relations with connected
parties in the case of Razvojna Bank and Zepter Bank. The RSBA and the central bank were called to
intervene when it seemed that the Balkan Bank was involved in money laundering.

The project has involved practically all larger banks in RS (about 95 percent of the total assets in the RS
banking system). There was an "open door" policy with regard to banks participating or interested in the
Project. For the TA component, there were also frequent consultations via telephone and E-mail. The
recommendations that were given to banks during appraisal were followed and banks were given additional
instructions, where needed. The banks' senior management was encouraged to seek technical opinions and
practical advice from the Bank (and continues to do so even after the closing date). In addition to TA, the
Bank has readily supported participating banks in looking for additional sources of funding, as well as in
forging alliances with foreign banks. In many cases, this resulted in foreign banks taking an equity position
in a participating bank.

For banks which were making good progress in addressing the institutional issues, but were still not able to
fully meet the eligibility criteria, the Bank agreed that they could get funding from the revolving fund
(which was created by sub-loan repayments and from the EPCP project). The Bank provided technical
advice to reorganize and more effectively manage the revolving fund. The revolving fund performance was
comparable to the performance under the Project, with sub-loan repayment rates at about 100 percent.

The Bank helped to raise donor funding for the TA, which was especially successful in the case of the RS
Banking Agency. Contrary to original expectations, the RS Banking Agency did not have to use the TA
funds from the Project. The banks were also able to raise TA funding -- as it turned out, this was not
difficult once the terms of reference were detailed enough and the commitment to act was there.

The Bank's team also invested a lot of time and effort to build the capacity in the DEF and the CLS. The
staff involved with the project received lots of direct training from the Bank's team. In addition, suitable
courses at the top training institutions (US Banking Association, UK Crown Agents, World Bank training)
were identified and the respective staff was encouraged to attend courses, which was paid from project
funds. The technical capacity of staff involved with the project became very high, even compared to the
banks. When the closing date approached, a number of highly trained persons left CLS/DEF to take high
management positions in RS and Bosnian banks.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. The DO and the Project implementation performance were satisfactory at all times. The
team maintained excellent working relationships with various counterparts and took broader initiatives,
whenever it was necessary and/or the opportunity presented itself.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. Close cooperation was maintained with a team of counterparts throughout preparation, with
the strong commitment and support from the highest levels. The Minister of Finance, the Director of the
RS Banking Agency, the President of the Chamber of Commerce and high officials in Bosnia and
Herzegovina demonstrated strong leadership in the activities to be included in the Project and were readily
available for discussions and support. Counterparts were competent and proactive in Project preparation.



                                                      - 17 -

The Project was approved in record time, as compared to other bank operations in the country.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, Government performance is assessed as satisfactory. Political and economic
instability translated into frequent changes in Government personnel. Nevertheless, the authorities
remained committed to the Project throughout its implementation period and ensured that key staff were in
place. Close cooperation with the Bank team was maintained from preparation throughout implementation.
There were no incidents of undue involvement in lending decisions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory. The management of this complex Project involving a large number of banks and
beneficiaries was a formidable challenge. The DEF and the Credit Line Section (CLS) responsible for
Project management, did very well. The Project succeeded in building significant technical and managerial
capacity in the DEF/CLS. The reporting, procurement and financial management was exemplary, as was
sub-project appraisal and approval. Financial audits confirmed the generally good performance of the
DEF/CLS.

In addition to desk reviews, the CLS credit specialists regularly visited each project site and had detailed
discussions with the potential beneficiaries, to check their market presence, business acumen and readiness
for the Project. Each visit was duly documented. The CLS also made a site visit after the whole sub-loan
was disbursed, to check whether the purchased equipment has been installed and is in a good operating
condition. The DEF/CLS was also actively supporting beneficiaries. In a number of cases, where an issue
was the technical knowledge, marketing or financial management skills of the beneficiary, the DEF/CLS
took active steps to help the beneficiary by providing information on available courses, or on potential
contacts where help and TA was available, or by directing beneficiaries to other programs for SME
assistance offered by donors in Bosnia.

The only incident occurred in the last few months before the closing date, once the original amount
allocated for the SME credit line component had been utilized. DEF senior management, as well as the
financial management specialist and the CLS manager-credit specialist, left for better paid jobs in the
banking sector. The new CLS team was appointed in October 2004 and the new DEF director in March
2005. They were subject to immediate and intensive training and managed to quickly get the technical
knowledge necessary to complete the Project.         Nevertheless, decisions to approve the final batch of
subprojects (in the October 2004 to March 2005 period) took longer time, as compared to the usual
performance parameter of "less then two weeks".

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Highly Satsifactory. The project participants and the authorities were highly committed to the Project and
cooperated closely with the Bank team. The sub-loans have 100 percent repayment rate and the policy
related objectives have been fulfilled leading to significant improvement in ownership and governance of
RS banks, to integration of banking markets in Bosnia and to much better and cheaper access to long term
finance for the SMEs.

8. Lessons Learned

Financial Intermediation (FI) Operations canserve as a good vehicle to help "open doors" to
international finance, especially in the case of small developing countries with no particular resource
endowment or unfavorable geographical position. FI operations could be especially beneficial for the
smaller banks in such countries.A Bank financial intermediation operation signals to the international


                                                     - 18 -

financial community that the banking sector reforms in a particular country are "on-track" and that there
are banks capable of meeting the rather strict eligibility criteria. International banks are aware that the
banks participating in the Bank financial intermediation operations are under continuous scrutiny and are
provided with technical assistance, if and when necessary. This usually opens the doors for additional
external finance, or at least improves the terms of correspondent relationships with foreign banks. If the
domestic bank has good growth prospects, the relationship often results in an equity investment.

A credit line operation can dramatically improve understanding of the prevailing conditions in the
banking markets and of the financial condition of major banking institutions. This understanding can be
used to better focus the policy dialogue or improve the design of adjustment operations. The appraisal
process and close contact with management of participating financial intermediaries provides a large
amount of detailed and confidential information. This information could be helpful in the Bank policy
dialogue and in the design of adjustment operations supporting financial sector reforms and private sector
development. This is especially true in transition economies with underdeveloped financial infrastructures
and supervisory capacities, with inadequate banks governance and lack of international financial reporting
standards.

The Bank's ability to engage both top-down, by assisting with the critical elements of the macroeconomic
framework and reforms programs, and bottom-up, by getting directly involved with individual banks and
their clients, seems to be an important factor of the Project's success. This Project came in the wake of
the Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit and benefited from the synergy with the Business
Environment Adjustment Credit. Project implementation involved not only extending credit for viable
private sector projects, but also having an intense policy dialogue with the RS Banking Agency, with the
Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, and with the IMF/Bank team engaged in the
macro-dialogue. The credit lines of other international institutions and donors active in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, who did not have an active dialogue on the reform front, have not been as successful.

Project design should be simple and ensure great flexibility in access and allocation of funds. This was a
lesson learned in the first credit operation and used in the design of this operation. The flexibility of access
was especially important, as the design allowed dialogue with practically all banks domiciled in RS. Some
of the banks were able to fully meet the eligibility criteria, and they used IDA funding directly. Some of the
banks were not able to meet the minimum criteria, but if they showed commitment to improve their
institutional capacity and continuous progress, they were allowed to have access to the revolving fund.
Only banks that were not ready to cooperate did not stay engaged.

Benefits to banks of participation in a Bank credit line operation goes well beyond access to Bank
funding. The credit appraisal and credit risk management techniques mandated under the Bank credit line
operation are typically applied to banks' credit business in general. The hands-on TA in credit appraisal
and improved self-confidence in assessing and managing the credit risk normally lead to increased lending
to the private sector from banks' own funds. This was also the case with RS banks. Credits to private
sector enterprises extended by Nova Bank increased by 2.3 times in the period from end-2002 to mid-2005,
of which only about 30 percent were IDA-funded. In the VB Bank case, the increase was 2.2 times, of
which less then 20 percent was based on IDA funding.

The demonstration and spill-over effects can be as important for the development of the local economy.
This is especially important in underdeveloped regions with little access to information. For example, in an
underdeveloped region of Bileca the output of a small milk-processing SME significantly increased after
receiving a sub-loan. The number of milk suppliers increased to 240 households. In addition to simple
products (milk, yogurt), higher value added products were introduced (cheeses). Once the profitability of


                                                     - 19 -

the milk processing business became obvious, another four milk processing SMEs were established in
neighboring regions. The region of Foca is rich with woods, where there are special sorts of edible
mushrooms. One of the entrepreneurs from the region received a sub-loan to enable immediate processing
of collected mushrooms, which was a prerequisite to create a number of high value-added sellable products
(dried, pickled and frozen mushrooms). He started with 20 workers and 100 collectors. By 2005, he
employed 50 workers in processing facilities and has over 700 full-time mushroom collectors. Other
entrepreneur followed suit. This is significant in a region where there is over 70 percent unemployment.

It is important to include TA in the credit line operation, but the objectives, expectations and
performance indicators of TA should be realistic. The Project demonstrated a number of important
achievements thanks to the technical assistance provided. However, technical assistance cannot be the main
vehicle for reforms. Flexibility is also important, as the TA needs change over time.

Building technical and managerial capacity in the project implementation unit is a critical element of a
successful project implementation. This should include direct instructions and mentoring by senior Bank
staff involved in project preparation and supervision, as well as attendance of training courses of well
respected training institutions abroad. The quality and dedication of local PIUs will become even more
critical, as the Bank's supervision budget keeps shrinking.

Staffing continuity facilitates project implementation and the achievement of its objectives. The
continuity of staff, of both the Bank and the local implementation team, was an important factor in
maintaining implementation momentum and building up an atmosphere of trust with the banks, the Project
beneficiaries and the authorities. This became obvious once the sub-loan amount was committed and the
senior people involved in Project implementation left in October 2004.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As a multi-project government institution for implementation of different World Bank projects in RS,
Republika Srpska Development and Employment Foundation (DEF) had necessary experience and
resources to be engaged in Private Sector Credit Project implementation.

The Project has significantly contributed to the overall development of the private sector in Republika
Srpska of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to development of              small and medium sized enterprises in
particular. Project funds, channeled through the selected commercial banks, provided those banks with
cheaper sources of long-term financing and enabled them to create better terms and conditions for loans to
the final beneficiaries. The Project improved access to credit to final beneficiaries/SME's. Also, the Project
influenced the improvement of the overall institutional capacity of participating banks and development of
banking markets in Republika Srpska.

In the period June, 2002 - June, 30 2005       59 subprojects to small and medium sized enterprises were
approved, in total amount of 8.912.052 EUR. Also 5 sub-loans for technical assistance to banks (Nova
Bank from Bijeljina, Bobar Bank from Bijeljina and VB Bank from Banja Luka) were approved, in total
amount of 586.705 EUR. Technical assistance component improved local banks' institutional capacities,
management information systems etc.

Another important result of the Project was territorial dispersion of subloans throughout Republika Srpska,
which included a number of beneficiaries from underdeveloped regions. About 2/3 of beneficiaries were
from other less developed regions (Bijeljina , Doboj and East Sarajevo Region) and 1/3 of beneficiaries
were from Banja Luka Region, the most developed region in Republika Srpska. Almost 50 percent of all



                                                     - 20 -

beneficiaries were from Bijeljina Region, due to very active branch office of Nova Bank in Bijeljina and
Zvornik.

DEF Implementation Performance: DEF did its best to develop efficient project management,
monitoring, reporting and internal control systems. Within the DEF, Credit Line Section and Financial
Management Unit were responsible for day to day management of the Project. DEF has built professional
relations with various counterparts: participating banks, Banking Agency, entity's and central ministries,
in order to successfully implement the Project. Repayment rate from the subprojects remains 100%.

Relationship with the World Bank: DEF had excellent relationship with the World Bank and the PSCP
team at all times.      The Project leader's technical capacity, dedication and availability for daily
consultations (via E-Mail or telephone) as well as during supervision missions , were precious and valuable
for strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of the DEF, its Credit Line Section, as well as for
participating local banks.

Institutional Arrangements and Sustainability: The projections of DEF cash-flows in the 2005-2036
period, confirmed that DEF operations are self-financing and sustainable. In order to form an institution
with an objective to facilitate access to term funding for the private sector, micro-credit institutions and
local communities, and after discussions between the Bank's team, authorities and the DEF, it was decided
that the DEF would become a specialized non-bank financial institution active in managing the revolving
funds from EPCP, PSCP, LIP I, LIP II and LDP. The DEF would be expected to repay to the Bank the
respective IDA credits using income from its operations. The total funding at DEF disposal in 2036, after
repayment of all IDA credits, will remain at about the same level as in 2005 (about BAM 70 million). The
DEF Law establishing the legal basis for its operations has been prepared and is in process of adoption.

The full text, including Tables is available in ICR files.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
c) Other partners (NGO's/private sector):
The RS Chamber of Commerce and Industry was asked to evaluate the Project impact. "....The Project has
had significant effect on improvement of access to credits for the private sector, which has influenced
promotion of SME development in Republika Srpska. The most important benefits that private enterprises
had from cooperation with the World Bank within this project were: (1) significant increase in production,
employment, profit and export of credit beneficiaries; (2) improvement of access to long-term credits; and
(3) improvement of conditions for loans....The Project has had significant demonstration effect in small and
underdeveloped communities, where successful credit beneficiaries served as positive example to other
potential entrepreneurs that it was possible to successfully conduct business and it encouraged them to start
own businesses..... The Project has had much wider influence than only on credit beneficiaries. It also had
influence on increase of suppliers' employment. That was the case with enterprises which have been
engaged in food processing (milk producers, fruit and vegetable processing). Increase in production of
credit beneficiaries has had significant influence on increase the suppliers' production , i.e. individual
farmers.........." This is an extract from the evaluation letter.     The Project assessment letter of the
president of RS Chamber of Commerce and Industry is available in the ICR files.

Seven banks involved in the project (VB/LHB, HYPO/Kristal, Zepter, Nova, Razvojna, Nova Banjalucka
and Bobar), which account for over 90 percent of the RS banking markets, were asked to evaluate the
overall impact that the Project had on: (i) improving the overall institutional capacity of banks; (ii)



                                                    - 21 -

stimulating development of RS banking markets; and (iii) improving access to credit of private enterprises.
For each category, they were asked to select one response. The responses included: a) Very Important; or
b) Important; or c) Marginally Important; or d) Irrelevant. In addition, regional offices in Bijeljina, Banja
Luka, Zvornik and Foca were asked to evaluate the impact that the Project had on SME development in
their regions.

All banks involved in the survey responded. In most cases the impact was evaluated as very important.
There were no cases where it was evaluated as marginal or irrelevant. The Project assessment letters are
available in the ICR files. As an illustration:

- Nova Bank evaluated the impact as very important on all three counts. The chief executive officer notes
that "... thanks to the Project, Nova Bank improved overall performance....the scope of improvement was
wide and included strategic planning.., credit officer performance and skills, branch operations...internal
audit and IT... The project stimulated development of banking markets in RS..."

- Hypo/Kristal Bank evaluated the impact as very important on all three counts. It noted that the Project
"...enabled banks to supplement their range of products significantly...as the Project brought new funds and
introduced loan approval procedures that did not exist in practice before...". He notes that"....credit
allocation by branches of the economy has dramatically improved ... the Project team supported
participating banks in other areas of banking business, by helping them to identify the existing gaps,
bringing know-how..... and contributed very much to individual development of participating banks.."

- VB/LHB Bank evaluated the impact as very important on all three counts and emphasized that the
involvement in the Project was "the first direct contact with international financial institutions" and the
bank took it as "a major acknowledgement and partnership".

Razvojna Bank and Nova Banjalucka Bank evaluated the impact as very important on all three counts and
emphasized the major benefits for their banks, including "... client education and education of credit
officers in preparing and evaluation business plans, appraisal of credit risk..."

10. Additional Information

                            Approved Sub-Loans by Industry/Business Sector
                                 (From 06-17-2002 to 06-30-2005, In EUR)

Agriculture and Food Processing (EUR 3,198,141; 33.7% )
Enterprise, Name, City         Type of Business             Bank                 Loan Amount
Agromix, Doboj                 Eggs production              Nova Banka                   100.000
Deelgros-Komerc, Zvomik      Meat processing                Nova Banka                   153,400
Slatka Tajna, Doboj            Cakes production             Nova Banka                    75,000
SBS Bjanka, Zvornik            Milk products                Nova Banka                   210,000
Leder, Bijeljna                Meat processing              Nova Banka                   250,000
Helix export, Bratunac         Fruit processing             Nova Banka                   200,000
Vrelo Bosne, Sarajevo          Juice production             Nova Banka                   102,000
Draz, Zvornik                  Waffle production            Nova Banka                   250,000
Zitopromet Drina, Zvornik      Wheat processing             Nova Banka                   127,000
Agreks, Donji Zabari           Chicken, eggs, egg products  Raiffeisen Bank               98,825
Agreks, Donji Zabari           Chicken, eggs, egg products  Raiffeisen Bank              115,914
Pastrmka, Srebrenica         Fish breeding, processing      Nova Banka                    30,678



                                                     - 22 -

Nevas DOO, Prnjavor           Meat processing                Nova Banka             204,517
Fruktona, Banja Luka          Juice production               Nova Banka             250,000
Agrocentar, Obudovac          Pigs-fatting                   Raiffeisen Bank        102,258
Farma Djukic, Bijeljina       Pigs-fatting                   Nova Banka               97,145
Gomex, Laktasi                Sweets and food production     Nova Banka             177,904
Zad, Zvornik                  Sweets and food production     Nova Banka             255,500
Ventuno, Srbinje              Mushroom processing            Nova Banka             148,000
SBS, Zvornik                  Milk production, cheese        Nova Banka             250,000


Wood Processing and Furniture (EUR 3,121,294; 32.9%)
Enterprise Name, City        Type of Business              Bank           Amount
Texoprom, Srbac             Wood processing industry       VB Banka                   77,000
Otoka, Srbinje              Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               165,000
Zad, Zvornik                Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               250,000
DMP Inzenjering, Bluka      Wood processing industry       Nova Banka                 41,000
Porat, Srbinje              Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               152,388
Petroprojekt, Bratunac      Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               250,000
Bukoprom, Sekovici          Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               200,000
Igo stell, Laktasi          Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               250,000
Maric, Prijedor             Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               178,952
10 Avgust, Vlasenica        Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               153,388
Zeleni Jadar, Srebrenica    Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               250,000
Migent, Milici              Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               250,000
Jelika, Pale                Wood processing industry       Nova Banka                 60,000
Javor, Foca                 Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               178,952
DI Vukelic, Laktasi         Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               250,000
Vladrag, Pale               Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               125,000
Wood Impex, Milici          Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               125,000
Meridijana, Bijeljina       Wood processing industry       Nova Banka               163,614


Metal Processing (EUR 1,080,500; 11.4%)
Enterprise Name, City             Type of Business       Bank Name        Amount
Dusanic kom., Prnjavor           Metal industry          Nova Banka                 248,000
Terex inzenjering, Bijeljina     Metal industry          Nova Banka                 250,000
NS Primeks-Armako, Prnjavor      Metal industry          Nova Banka                 127,000
Kupresak, Laktasi                Metal industry          VB Banka                   102,000
Bravarija Pile, Laktasi          Metal industry          Nova Banka                   66,500
OM Integral, Zvornik             Metal industry          Nova Banka                   82,000
Konstruktor, Srbinje             Metal industry          Nova Banka                 205,000


Textile Industry (EUR 86,129; 0.9%)
Enterprise Name, City            Type of Business     Bank Name                 Amount
Vibok, Banja Luka                 Textile industry    VB Banka                        35,000
Falcon Style, Prnjavor            Textile industry    Nova Banka                      51,129


Construction Materials, Glass (EUR 1,004,746; 10.6%)
Enterprise Name, City       Type of Business               Bank Name             Amount
Djukaric, Prnjavor          Glass production               Nova Banka                     75,000
Knegrad, Knezevo            Concrete joists production     VB Banka                      102,000

                                                      - 23 -

Mermer Granit, Laktasi  Stone processing               VB Banka                255,000
Jursik, Bijeljina       Concrete joists production     Nova Banka              127,000
Beton, Gradiska         Concrete production            VB Banka                  51,000
Kamenolomi, Zvornik     Stone processing               Nova Banka              150,000
Ruding, Ugljevik        Stone mining                   Nova Banka              183,391
Stirodom, Bijeljina     Construction material          Nova Banka                61,355


Other Industries (EUR 421,242; 4.4%)
Enterprise Name, City    Type of Business                 Bank Name        Amount
Margo, Pale              Graphic enterprise               Nova Banka             35,000
Fagum, Zvornik           Gummy processing                 Nova Banka           205,000
M&N, Bijeljina           Carpentry                        Nova Banka             56,242
Lanaco, Banja Luka       Computers & Communications       Nova Banka           125,000


Technical Assistance (EUR 586,705; 6.2%)
Enterprise Name, City  Type of Business         Bank Name     Amount
Nova Banka, Bijeljina  Technical assistance     Nova Banka        86,705
VB Banka               Technical assistance     VB Banka         125,000
VB Banka               Technical assistance     VB Banka         125,000
Bobar Banka, Bijeljina Technical assistance     Bobar Banka      125,000
Nova Banka, Bijeljina  Technical assistance     Nova Banka       125,000




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                    1
              Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased output, employment and profits of                              The effects differed by length of time after
benefiting businesses                                                    subproject completion. For sub-loans
                                                                         approved in 2002, income increased by 62%,
                                                                         employment by 40% and exports by 64%.
                                                                         For sub-loans approved in 2003, income
                                                                         increased by 33%, employment by 28% and
                                                                         exports by 45%.

Increased banking sector assets.                                         The banking sector assets significantly
                                                                         increased in the 2002-2004 period, from
                                                                         about 47% of GDP equivalent to about 72%
                                                                         of GDP equivalent or about two times in
                                                                         absolute terms. The increase differed by
                                                                         banks. The assets of Nova Bank, which was
                                                                         the most active participant, increased by
                                                                         222%, followed by VB Bank (124%). The
                                                                         assets of Razvojna Bank, which is the largest
                                                                         bank in RS, increased by 85% in the same
                                                                         period.

Demonstration and spill-over effects.                                    There were significant demonstration and
                                                                         spill-over effects, although these are hard to
                                                                         fully document. The demonstration and
                                                                         spill-over are better evident in less developed
                                                                         environments. For example, from no
                                                                         milk-processing facilities, a milk processing
                                                                         plant near Bileca now has 240 rural
                                                                         household suppliers of milk. Its
                                                                         establishment was followed by four new
                                                                         SMEs active in the same region.

Increase of RS credit markets volume.                                    The credit market volume in RS doubled in
Improved access to credit. Improved loan                                 the 2002-2004 period. The increase differed
terms.                                                                   by bank. The credit portfolio of Nova Bank,
                                                                         which was the most active direct participant,
                                                                         increased by 205% and its credit to SMEs
                                                                         increased by 135% in the same period. (The
                                                                         difference is credit to households and
                                                                         establishments not registered under the
                                                                         corporate law.) The credit portfolio of
                                                                         Razvojna Bank, which is the largest bank in
                                                                         RS and among the most active in using the
                                                                         revolving fund, increased by 193% in the
                                                                         same period. Its credit to SMEs increased by
                                                                         by over four times.

Improvement of policies and procedures for                               All banks maintaining the active dialogue (7
risk management, especially the credit risk.                             banks) significantly improved financial risk
Creation of an internal audit department in                              management policies and practices and all
banks. Improvements in management                                        established the ALCO. Initially, none of them
information systems                                                      had internal audit and controls department,
                                                                         which was promptly established as a
                                                                         condition to maintain the dialogue. The
                                                                         management information systems also
                                                                         significantly improved, especially the quality
                                                                         of management reporting.

Better asset quality and smaller losses.                                 Asset quality improved as a result of better
Increased profitability of banks                                         credit risk management practices. At the end
                                                                         of 2001, the average for substandard assets
                                                                         (classified as C to E) was 8.7% of the total
                                                                         classified assets. At the end of 2004, it was




                                                      - 25 -

                                                           3.3%. The income of banks has significantly
                                                           increased (53% for Nova, 28% for LHB, 57%
                                                           for Zepter). However, the bottom line profit
                                                           did not reflect this, as the banks used
                                                           increased income to open new branches and
                                                           invest in improving their institutional capacity.

Better integration of financial markets in RS              There was a significantly better integration of
and the Federation.                                        financial markets in the RS and the
                                                           Federation. One of the banks, Raiffesisen,
                                                           did not need funds but joined the Project in
                                                           order to be able to demonstrate that it
                                                           "belongs to the crowd". At the start of the
                                                           Project, none of the RS banks maintained a
                                                           branch in the Federation. By the end of the
                                                           Project, all banks with active dialogue opened
                                                           branches in the Federation. The percentage
                                                           of Federation branches was as high as 20%
                                                           of the total in some of the banks. Now, that
                                                           all participating banks attracted foreign equity
                                                           capital already present in the banks in the
                                                           Federation, the next phase would be
                                                           integration of RS banks with the banks from
                                                           the Federation owned by the same owners.

Improved quality and reduced cost of                       The quality of financial services has
financial services                                         improved. By the end of the project,
                                                           participating banks that account for over 90%
                                                           of the RS markets have received the ISO
                                                           9001 quality certification. The cost of credit
                                                           has been reduced. At end 2002, the short
                                                           term lending rates were at about 12% and
                                                           long term lending rates were 10.5 % average.
                                                           By the end of 2004, the averages fall to 9.9%
                                                           and 8.25%, respectively.

Entry of reputable international banks.                    The Project has clearly helped to attract
Access to international financing.                         foreign equity. There was an active help to
                                                           attract attention and comfort letters were
                                                           provided to explain to potentially interested
                                                           investors that a bank had an active
                                                           participation in the Project, which included
                                                           annual appraisal of financial condition and
                                                           requirements that the bank meets the
                                                           minimum standards. The first bank to get
                                                           equity capital was VB Bank, followed by
                                                           others (Nova, Razvojna, Zepter). By the end
                                                           of the Project, all banks with active dialogue
                                                           managed to get some sort of access to
                                                           international finance (e.g., at least trade
                                                           credit)

Progress in cooperation between the BA                     Cooperation was increasingly successful.
Banking Agency and the Federation Banking                  Integration was planned as of January 2005,
Agency. Progress towards integration of the                but was postponed due to political reasons.
Banking Agencies under the Central Bank.                   In the meantime, all larger RS banks have
                                                           already attracted or are about to complete
                                                           negotiations and get foreign equity
                                                           ownership. In most cases, the equity owners
                                                           are already present in the Federation. Thus,
                                                           mergers of the RS and Federation banks
                                                           owned by the same owners are likely. The
                                                           process with HIPO Bank is well advanced,
                                                           with headquarters moving to Sarajevo. The
                                                           LHB merger has been announced, including
                                                           mergers of VB and newly purchased
                                                           Razvojna in the first step by end of 2005, to
                                                           be followed by merger with the Federation




                                                 - 26 -

                                                                        banks by end of 2006. Presumably, only
                                                                        three small and financially impaired banks will
                                                                        remain with headquarters in the RS. At
                                                                        end-2004, these three banks accounted for
                                                                        about 5% of the total banking assets
                                                                        domiciled in RS.

The PSR did not include projections of performance indicators.
Output Indicators:
                                                                   1
              Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
No.of subloans extended and total extended                             There were 59 sub-loans extended directly
                                                                        from the Project. Additional 97 sub-loans
                                                                        were extended from the revolving fund in the
                                                                        2002 to 2004 period, including the
                                                                        repayments from the Project and from the
                                                                        earlier EPCP operation.


Increase of sales, employment and exports                               The effects differed by length of time after
                                                                        subproject completion. For sub-loans
                                                                        approved in 2002, income increased by 62%,
                                                                        employment by 40% and exports by 64%.
                                                                        For sub-loans approved in 2003, income
                                                                        increased by 33%, employment by 28% and
                                                                        exports by 45%.


No. of delinquencies                                                    The sub-loan repayment rate was 100%.
                                                                        The sub-loan repayment rate under the
                                                                        revolving fund is also 100%.


Number of banks participating                                           There were three banks with full eligibility
                                                                        (Nova Bank, VB/LHB Bank and Raiffeisen
                                                                        Bank). Active dialogue was maintained with
                                                                        an additional four larger banks in RS (Zepter
                                                                        Bank, Razvojna Bank, Nova Banjalucka Bank
                                                                        and Bobar Bank). They were active
                                                                        participants using sub-loans from the
                                                                        revolving fund. Some smaller banks in
                                                                        seriously impaired financial condition were
                                                                        also appraised (Pavlovic Bank, Balkan Bank,
                                                                        Privredna Banka Srpsko Sarajevo) , but
                                                                        contact was not maintained.

1End of project
The PSR did not include projections of performance indicators.




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Line of Credit                                                          10.00               21.55
Technical Assistance to Banking Sector                                   6.00                 5.51
Incremental Operating Cost                                               0.20                 0.30

Total Baseline Cost                                                     16.20               27.36
                            Total Project Costs                         16.20               27.36
                    Total Financing Required                            16.20               27.36


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              10.00             0.00              10.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (7.00)           (0.00)             (7.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               6.00             0.00              6.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (3.00)           (0.00)             (3.00)
   Total                                0.00               0.00              16.00             0.00              16.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (10.00)           (0.00)            (10.00)
Procurement estimates at appraisal were prepared by project components.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.45             3.71              4.16
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00             10.78             7.60             18.38
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (10.78)            (0.00)           (10.78)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.72             3.10              4.82
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.72)            (0.00)           (0.72)
   Total                                0.00               0.00             12.95             14.41            27.36
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.70)            (0.00)           (11.70)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 28 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                  Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank        Govt.      CoF.       Bank        Govt.      CoF.    Bank     Govt. CoF.
Line of Credit                7.00        0.00       3.00       10.78        0.00     10.77    154.0     0.0  359.0
TA to Banking Sector          3.00        0.00       3.00       0.72         0.00      4.79     24.0     0.0  159.7
Incremental Operating         0.20        0.00       0.00       0.20         0.10      0.00    100.0     0.0   0.0
Cost

  The total cost of the project was estimated at USD 16 million equivalent. The IDA Credit was SDR 8
  million, which was equivalent to USD 10 million. The following assumptions were made at appraisal:

  - For the Line of Credit Component, the total estimated funding USD 10 million, of which USD 7 million
  of IDA funding and USD 3 million of local funding. Beneficiaries and/or their banks were expected to
  co-finance about 30 percent of the total cost of subprojects.

  - For the TA to the Banking Sector Component, the total estimated funding needs were USD 6 million, of
  which USD 3 million of IDA funding and USD 3 million of local funding. The recipients of TA were
  expected to co-finance about 50 percent of the total cost of technical assistance.

  - For the incremental operating cost, the estimated total of USD 200,000 was to be financed by IDA.

  In the end, the total cost of the Project was USD 27.36 million equivalent. Due to the USD devaluation,
  the total IDA funding available at the credit closing date was USD 11.7 equivalent. The funding structure
  was as follows:

  - The total funding for the Line of Credit was USD 21.55 million. IDA funding for this component totaled
  USD 10.78 million equivalent. This includes SDR 1.81 million reallocated in September 2004. In reality,
  beneficiaries co-financed about 50 percent of the total cost of their sub-projects.

  - The total funding for the TA component was USD 5.51 million. IDA funding was USD 0.72 million
  equivalent. The average contributions of TA beneficiaries amounted to about 85 percent, which is
  significantly higher then expected and which allowed reallocation to the Credit Line component.

  - For the incremental operating cost, the total funding needs were estimated at USD 200,000, to be financed
  by IDA. The contribution of the Government of USD 100,000 equivalent was for the offices and office
  technology of the DEF staff involved in Project implementation. This is equivalent to 50 percent
  Government contribution to the incremental operating cost.




                                                       - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Subprojects. Subprojects were expected to have a minimum economic and financial rate of return of 15
percent. The financial rate of return was estimated as part of the appraisal of credit risk of individual
subprojects and borrowers. Financial projections were subject to sensitivity analysis, including sensitivity
to exchange rate devaluation (i.e. to currency risk), to price decreases in the expected product/services
market and to increases in operating cost. There was no separate appraisal of the economic rate of return,
as there were no significant price distortions in the macroeconomic and business environment. The impact
study reviewed capital, income, profit, employment and exports by comparing the values in the reference
year before a sub-project was approved (with financial reports received with a sub-loan application) with
those in later years after the sub-project has been implemented. In order to ensure objectivity, information
for the later years was obtained from the Agency for Registry, Informatics and Financial Services in Banja
Luka (which collects information on enterprise financial statements). The following table summarizes the
effects for the beneficiaries of implementing the subprojects. The subprojects were grouped by year in
which the sub-loans were approved. Clearly, the subprojects that were approved and implemented earlier,
are showing higher economic and financial benefits. For the sub-loans approved in 2004, the majority have
not been fully completed by the cut-off date of the study.

          Percentage Increase Attributed to Participation in the Project
     Subprojects:          Approved in 2002          Approved in 2003             Approved in 2004
     Effects on:            (End 2001-End          (End 2002-End 2004)          (End 2003-End 2004)
                                 2004)
     Income                       62%                       33%                         19%
     Profit                      592%                       11%                          0%
     Capital                      90%                       56%                          24%
     Employment                   40%                       28%                          1%
     Exports                      64%                       45%                          n.a
         Information on capital, total income and number of permanent employees was available for the whole
         2001-2004 period, on profit for the year 2004, and on exports for the year 2003.

The economic and financial benefits have surpassed the initial expectations. For enterprises that received
loans in 2002, the profit increased by about six times, the income by about 62 percent and the capital has
almost doubled. For enterprises that received loans in 2003, and where there was less time for an
enterprise to take full advantage of the opportunities due to the completion of the subproject, the beneficial
effects were smaller then for the 2002 group, but still better then expected. For the group of enterprises
that received loans in 2004, the effects were not yet obvious, since most of them did not have time to
complete the subprojects. The repayment record for the loans in all three groups was 100 percent.

The economic effects of subprojects were many. The subprojects played an important role in stimulating
development in a number of underdeveloped regions and there were significant demonstration and spill-over
effects. For example, a large number of subprojects (over 20 under the Project and about 60 under the
EPCP and the revolving funds) were extended in the initially less developed area along river Drina, between
Zvornik and Bijeljina. In 1999, there were barely any SMEs operating in the area. Today, there are a few
hundred SMEs and the number is still growing.          Similar (but smaller) examples are the milk-processing
SMEs in the Bileca area, the wood products in the Foca area, the tourism industry of the river Tara area,
the vine growing facilities in Popovo Polje, etc. The spillovers involved direct suppliers and engagement
of a large number of households. For example, a number of projects in the food processing industry are
based on milk processing. The milk is bought from numerous village cooperatives (e.g., Bianka) and
hundreds of individual rural households. Harvesting of wood products is another example of spill-over



                                                      - 30 -

effects. For example, the Ventuno subproject involves over 700 households participating in collection and
processing of wild mushrooms for exports.        Typically, the subprojects have stimulated increase of the
value-added and exports. For example, Petroproject from Bratunac received a credit of EUR 250,000 to
install the wood-processing capacity for higher value added products used in the furniture industry. Once
the subproject was implemented, net income increased by six times, and employment by about 40 percent.
The whole production is now exported to Germany and Poland.

There are no economic costs. The subprojects have a repayment rate of 100 percent.

Improved Institutional Capacity and Better Governance. The Project has provided assistance for
institutional strengthening in a critical period when the privatization of state owned banks in RS was just
completed. The new owners were domestic entrepreneurs or individual foreign citizens of Serbian origin,
often without banking experience. In at least two cases, it was questionable whether the new private
owners were "fit and proper".      The Bank maintained contacts and provided assistance to all the larger
banks in RS. The Bank's presence has helped to improve governance and has been instrumental in
introducing rules that have protected banks from undue relationships with the connected parties. There
were three cases, where this has had an important systemic impact (Zepter, Razvojna and Nova
Banjalucka), as the new private owners were taking advantage of the bank. Participating banks, as well as
banks interested in participation that were allowed to use the revolving fund, have followed the Bank's
rigorous subproject appraisal and supervision requirements, with analytical tools and hands-on training
provided by the Bank and technical assistance arranged as needed. More specifically, the banks have
improved their policies and the capacity to identify, assess, price and manage banking risks. Especially
important were improvements in lending policies, appraisal of client's creditworthiness and of project
economic and financial viability, loan supervision and administration. Typically, the banks have applied the
same policies and techniques to their entire portfolio. This has improved banks' confidence and, ultimately,
the volume of credit available to the private sector. This in turn improved the bank's financial condition
and the capacity to raise new equity capital. By the end of the Project, all banks with whom the team
maintained a working relationship had received or were about to receive significant equity investments of
well known international banks active in the Balkans.

Improved Quality of Banking Services. Another area where the project has made a contribution was the
improvement in the quality of banking services available to the private sector in RS.           Banks were
encouraged to ask for ISO 9001 certification attesting that the quality of their products and services meets
certain international standards. The initial TORs were written in the context of the banks' appraisal. VB
Bank and Nova Bank were the first to start the certification process. Once they were certified, it was a
matter of competition and survival for other RS banks to also receive the quality certification. During
Project implementation, the following banks have received the ISO 9001 certification: VB/LHB Bank,
Nova Bank, Zepter Bank, Bobar Bank and Razvojna Bank.

Contribution at the Systemic Level. The Project contributed to stimulating competition in RS credit
markets and integration of the banking markets in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has contributed to improving
the authority of the RS banking supervision and increasing the safety and soundness of the RS banking
system, which has contributed to increasing public confidence. The Project has promoted competition in
credit markets through encouraging participation of new private banks, which has improved access to
finance. Within the broader framework of banking sector and market reforms, the Project has played an
important role in providing assistance in the next phase of banking sector development, encouraged
adoption of safe and sound banking practices, compliance with prudential regulations and good governance
practices. This, plus the changes in ownership have increased stability and integrity of the banking markets
in RS. This is clearly evident from the responses of senior bankers evaluating contributions of the Project


                                                    - 31 -

to the RS banking sector development.




                                         - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                         No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                             (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year       Count             Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/31/2000                       2     TTL-Sr.Fin. Sect. Spec(1); Sr.
                                                      FM Spec. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               09/16/2001                       4     TTL-Sr.Fin. Sect. Spec(1);
                                                      Sr. FM Spec. (2),
                                                      Procurement Specialist

 Supervision
               04/16/2002                        2    TTL-Sr.Fin. Sect. Spec(1);             S               S
                                                      Sr. FM Spec. (1)
               07/26/2002                        1    TTL-Sr. Fin. Sect. Spec. (1)           S               S
               05/28/2003                        2    TTL- Sr. Fin. Sect. Spec.(1); FM       S               S
                                                      Spec. (1)
               10/17/2003                        1    TTL-Sr. Fin. Sect. Spec. (1)           S               S
               06/23/2004                        2    TTL-Lead. Fin. Sect. Spec. (1);        S               S
                                                      Sr. FM Spec. (1)
               06/23/2004                        2    TTL-Lead Fin. Sect. Spec. (1);         S               S
                                                      Sr. FM Spec. (1)
               10/06/2004                        2    TTL-Lead Fin. Sect. Spec. (1);         S               S
                                                      FM (1)
               04/04/2005                        1    TTL-Lead Fin. Sect. Spec. (1)          S               S

 ICR
               09/30/2005                       1     TTL-Lead Fin.Sect.Sp.( 1)              S               S

In general, there were two supervision missions (i.e., Bank site-visits) per fiscal year. However,
consultations via telephone and E-mail took place almost on a daily basis. The Bank and/or the DEF
proactively addressed potential issues that could have negatively affected the sub-project or the
beneficiary's business, including technical and financial management capacity, and business environment.
For the TA component, there were frequent consultations via telephone and E-mail. The recommendations
that were given to banks during annual appraisal of financial conditions and institutional capacity were
followed-up and banks were given additional instructions, where needed.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       NA                               33.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            NA                              161.1
  Supervision                                     48.9                             263.1
  ICR                                               7.0                             42.0
  Total                                           55.9                             499.5
The time accounted to ICR also includes technical assistance provided to the DEF to establish a non-bank
financial institution and to realign the functional processes and procedures, as described in Section 6.2.
Without the TA, the total for ICR preparation would amount to about USD 27,000.


                                                      - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Report: Development Impact and Sustainability of the Private Sector Credit Project, November 2005,
DEF, Banja Luka
2. Report: Development Impact and Sustainability of the Emergency Pilot Credit Project, November 2005,
DEF, Banja Luka
3. Report: Development Impact and Sustainability of the Revolving Fund from the EPCP and PSCP
Projects, November 2005, DEF, Banja Luka
4. Project Evaluation Letters by Directors of Participating Banks, including
Bajic, Director, VB/LHB Bank, Banjal Luka
Bogunovic, Member of Managing Board, HYPO Bank, Banja Luka
Andzic, Director, Nova Bank, Bijeljina
Kondic, Director, Razvojna Bank, Banja Luka
Labovic, Director, Zepter Bank, Banja Luka
Radumilo, Director, Bobar Bank, Bijeljina
Salic, Deputy Director, Nova Banjalucka Bank, Banja Luka
Cvijetinovic, Director, Zvornik Branch Office, Nova Bank
Dubinovic, Deputy Director, Nova Banka
Bogunovic, Member of the Managing Board, HYPO Alpe Adria Bank
Simic, Director, Foca Branch Office, Nova Banka
5. Project Evaluation Letters by the Banking Agency and Chamber of Commerce of Republika Srpska
6. DEF Financial Projections
7. DEF Draft Law
8. Letter detailing Partner Contribution written by the DEF
9. Aide Memoires left by Bank missions
10. Appraisal Letters addressed to participating banks and other banks interested in participation.




                                                    - 36 -

- 37 -

