Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3608 BOS
Project Agreement
(Private Sector Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated April 19, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3608 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of April 19, 2002 between the INTERNATIONAL 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Republika Srpska (RS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,000,000) for the Project described in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit 
Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only 
on condition that RS agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary finance agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
RS (the Subsidiary Finance Agreement) the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to RS on terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Finance Agreement; 
WHEREAS RS in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of RS
Section 2.01. (a) RS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical and environmental practices and shall  provide or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and RS shall otherwise agree, RS shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. RS shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of RS and the Association and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  3
Section 2.03. (a) RS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
RS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by RS of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) RS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RS shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and RS, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
RS on said plan; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the 
Association’s comments thereon.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. 
(a)  RS shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
 (b)
RS shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
Page  4
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
RS shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Financial Management 
Report for such period, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project
 
for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of RS 
Page  5
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify RS of this 
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
202 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387-51-331350
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
Page  6
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RS, may be taken or executed by 
its Minister of Finance, or by such other person or persons as RS shall designate in writing, and 
RS shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Sarajevo, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By
/s/ Mirko Sarovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
RS shall maintain the DEF and a separate credit line section within the DEF, until the 
completion of the Project, with adequate staff, funds, facilities and other resources required for 
this purpose in a manner satisfactory to the Association. The DEF shall be responsible for the 
overall implementation and coordination of the Project in accordance with arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
DEF shall maintain the Operational Guidelines in form and content satisfactory to the 
Association and duly perform all its obligations under the Operational Guidelines and shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Guidelines without obtaining the prior 
approval of the Association.
3.
RS shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  7
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, by March 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 15 of each year, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and thereafter take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
4.
For Part A of the Project, RS shall, through DEF:
(a)
relend to PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph A.1. of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement under Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between RS and each 
such PFI, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, and 
which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in the Annex A to this Schedule;
(b)
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the PFIs of 
their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements in accordance with policies 
and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part to enable 
the PFIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; 
(d)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof; and
(e)
in respect of repayments of principal of each PFI Sub-loan and Subsidiary Loan, 
to the extent that such repayments are not used to repay the Credit and repay dues to the 
Association and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, utilize the amount of each such 
repayment, exclusively to finance directly or through the PFIs specific projects on similar terms 
and conditions as those applicable to the PFI Sub-loans or Subsidiary Loans so repaid. 
5.
For Part B of the Project RS, through DEF, shall make TA Sub-loans to the TA 
Recipients on terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Guidelines including, without any 
limitations, the terms and conditions set forth in Annex B to this Schedule.
Annex A
To
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Annex A shall apply for the purposes 
of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Credit to a PFI under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be denominated in Euro
 
and be the equivalent of the 
aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof.
2.
The Subsidiary Loan shall:
(a)
be charged semi-annually, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate based on the average Euro LIBOR for the 
preceding six month period, but such interest rate to be not less than two percent (2%) and not 
more than four percent (4%) per annum; and have a maturity of not more than five years 
including a grace period up to one year. 
(b)
in addition, be charged a commitment fee of 100 basis points on the committed 
amounts and not withdrawn from time to time, and an interest spread of 100 basis points on the 
disbursed amounts of the principal and outstanding from time to time. 
3.
The PFI will pay to the DEF a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at the rate of one percent (1%) per annum.
4.
The right of a PFI to the use of the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be: 
(a) suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with all legal and regulatory 
requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated if such right shall have been 
suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.
B.
PFI Eligibility Criteria; Conditions 
1.
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PFI, which the DEF shall have 
determined, and the Association shall have agreed, that such PFI:
(a)
is duly established and licensed to operate in RS;
(b)
except as otherwise agreed with the Association, has been in existence for at 
least two years;
(c)
is operating pursuant to investment, lending and financial management risk 
Page  9
policies and procedures acceptable to the Association, and has undertaken to maintain said 
policies and procedures; 
(d)
is in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its 
operation; 
(e)
has, and has agreed to maintain during the duration of its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, a minimum risk-based capital adequacy ratio (as defined by the Basle Capital 
Accord) of at least twelve percent (12%);
(f)
is a bank with a majority of private shares and with “fit and proper” management 
and owners;
(g)
has, and has agreed to maintain during the duration of its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, adequate liquidity as required by the RS Banking Agency;
(h)
has not more than thirty-five percent (35%) of its assets classified as criticized 
assets as substandard, doubtful or loss;
(i)
has satisfactory financial structure, determined, inter alia, on the basis of 
risk-based capital adequacy criteria, satisfactory to the Association, policies and performance, 
and the organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying 
out of its operations, including its activities to be undertaken under the Project; 
(j)
has satisfactory internal audits and controls and management information 
systems; and
(k)
is viewed by the RS Banking Agency as an eligible PFI to participate in the 
implementation of the Project based on criteria as agreed with the Association.
2.
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which 
each respective PFI shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out activities under the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in 
accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, with qualified management and 
staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity with the investment and lending policies and 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (c) hereof, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i)
make PFI Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Operational Guidelines including, without limitation, the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Attachment to this Annex;
(ii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to 
protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower, RS and the 
Association, comply with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project;
(iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Page  10
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior approval of RS; and
(iv)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying 
out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with the Operational 
Guidelines;
(c)
maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of reference, satisfactory to 
the Association and RS:  
(i)
a credit committee to be responsible for the evaluation and approval of 
Sub-loan applications; and
(ii)
a technical unit to be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of the 
carrying out of Sub-projects;
(d)
(i)
exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Association 
or the DEF, as may be reasonably requested by the Association, RS or 
the DEF, with regard to the progress of its activities under the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of  the Project;
(ii)
prepare and submit to the DEF
 
quarterly reports on Sub-loan 
disbursements and repayments, and on the progress made in achieving 
the objectives outlined in the business plans submitted with the Sub-loan 
applications; and
(iii)
promptly inform the Association and the DEF of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association such information concerning said records and 
accounts as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request; 
and
(f)
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan.
C.
Provisional Eligibility Criteria for PFIs
1.
A PFI which does not meet the criteria set forth in Part B of this Annex may apply to 
qualify itself on a provisional basis, in accordance with the criteria set forth in this paragraph,  to 
participate in the Project for extending Sub-loans out of the proceeds of the Credit, and receive 
funding under the Project, not exceeding 25 percent of its capital, provided, that:  
(a)
it is licensed in RS under the relevant regulations; 
Page  11
(b)
a majority of its shares are privately owned and its owners and managers are 
considered “fit and proper”;
(c)
it has not in any significant way violated any key prudential regulations issued 
by the RS Banking Agency, or an agreement with the RS Banking Agency has been concluded 
which indicates the measures that need to be taken for the bank to meet key prudential 
regulations and a time-bound action plan to accomplish it; 
(d)
it has at least minimum required capital, or it shall provide a program, 
satisfactory to the Association and RS, of its planned capitalization to be able to meet the 
minimum capital requirements satisfactory to the Association and RS; 
(e)
it has generally satisfactory liquidity, or it shall provide a program, satisfactory 
to the Association and RS, stating measures that the PFI shall adopt to be able to meet the 
liquidity requirements;  
(f)
it has at least rudimentary capacity to appraise loans and to administer them, and 
it shall agree to build the capacity to the level deemed necessary by the Association; and 
(g)
it has at least rudimentary internal audits and controls management information 
systems, and it should agree 
to build the capacity to the level deemed necessary by the 
Association. 
2.
A bank which qualifies under the criteria set forth in Part C of this Annex to receive 
funding under the Project on a provisional basis shall, prior to the signing of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the DEF, satisfactory to the 
Association, specifying therein a time-bound action plan with measures, satisfactory to the 
Association, that it shall take to be able to meet the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph B of 
this Annex within a period not exceeding 18 months.  The MOU, inter alia, shall include the 
following:  
(a)
regular progress reports regarding the time-bound action plan shall be prepared 
by the PFI and provided to the Association on twice per year basis to allow the Association’s 
evaluation and monitoring; 
(b)
the PFI shall provide to the Association a copy of the on-site supervision  report 
prepared by the RS Banking Agency prior to the Association’s periodic evaluation of progress 
made on the PFI’s time-bound action plan;
(c)
if required, reports to be submitted by the technical assistance consultants, if and 
when engaged, directly to the Association regarding the progress related to fulfillment of the 
time-bound action plan; 
(d)
timely submission of any additional reports and relevant information that the 
Association may deem appropriate; and 
(e)
the right of the PFI to participate in the Project on a provisional basis under Part 
C
of this Annex A shall be: (a) suspended if within a period of 24 months from the date of the 
MOU it shall not have met the Eligibility Criteria set forth under Part B.1 of this Annex A; and 
Page  12
(b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of sixty (60) days.
Attachment To
Annex A
To
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of the PFI Sub-loans
The provisions of this Attachment shall be for the purposes of paragraph 2 (b) (i) of Part 
B of the Annex to Schedule 1.
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to Categories (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement shall:
(a)
be denominated in Euro, and be the equivalent in Euro (determined as of the date 
or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the 
cost of goods and works financed out of such proceeds for Sub-loans under the Project;
(b)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not exceed the equivalent of 
Euro 250,000 for Sub-loans for investment purposes and not exceed the equivalent of Euro 
125,000 for Sub-loans for working capital purposes; and
(c)
have a maturity of not more than five
 
years with a grace period up to one year 
for Sub-loans for investment purposes and have a maturity of not more that three years with a 
grace period up to three months for Sub-loans for working capital purposes.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be:
(a)
charged monthly, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, an interest spread of not more than six percent (6%), as it may be revised and 
adjusted by DEF from time to time, in agreement with the Association, above the interest rate set 
forth in paragraph A.2 of  Annex A to Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
in addition, charged a commitment fee of 100 basis points on the committed 
amounts and not withdrawn from time to time; and 
(c)
repaid, in respect of interest on the outstanding principal balance of the 
Sub-loan, monthly, as determined by the PFI in accordance with its investment and lending 
policies.
3.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Association 
Page  13
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which 
the Association shall have received the application and information required under paragraph (4) 
of this Attachment in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan (as 
hereinafter defined) for which the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit 
Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date 
on which the Association shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 4 (b) of this Attachment in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.  For the purposes 
hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project to be made by each respective 
PFI in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum 
determined from time to time by the Association and notified to RS and each such respective 
PFI.
4.
(a)
For a PFI Sub-loan a PFI shall furnish to DEF, an application, in a form 
satisfactory to the Association, together with:
(i)
a description of the Beneficiary, including balance sheet and income 
statement information;
(ii)
the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(iii)
a business plan, including recent and projected financial statements of 
the Beneficiary;
(iv)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of amortization therefor; and
(v)
any such other information as the Association shall reasonably request 
and/or that has been specified in the Operational Guidelines.
(b)
For a Sub-loan above the free limit, DEF shall obtain the Association’s approval 
prior to its commitment. To this effect, for each such Sub-loan DEF shall submit to the 
Association the information referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of this Attachment.
(c)
Once a PFI Sub-loan has been committed by DEF, the PFI may promptly 
withdraw: (a) not exceeding 50% of the Sub-loan amount up to the maximum of €100,000, in the 
case of fully qualified PFI; and (b) not exceeding 50% of the Sub-loan up to the maximum of €
50,000, in the case of a provisionally qualified PFI.
(d)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs (a) 
and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association not later than March 31, 2005.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the PFI making the Sub-loan, on the basis of Operational Guidelines, that:
(a)
it has been in existence preferably for at least two years;
Page  14
(b)
it operates in RS and is registered with RS tax authorities and the local chamber 
of commerce;
(c)
it is engaged in agro-processing, manufacturing or other economic activity that 
supports the restoration or provide services for food production or industrial production;
(d)
it is a private enterprise; and
(e)
it is creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other sources required for the efficient carrying out of this 
operation, including the carrying out of the Sub-project.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal carried out in accordance with the Operational Guidelines, to be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially viable, with 
an expected financial rate of return of not less than fifteen percent (15%);
(b)
capable of being implemented and made operational within a period of not more 
than one year; and
(c)
in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the Association and 
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of RS relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection.
7.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the Sub-loan shall obtain, by 
written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its interest and those of RS 
and the Association, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economic, financial and commercial 
practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities 
and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that: (i)  the goods and consultants’ services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
(ii) such goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association or the DEF on 
behalf of RS if the Association, RS or the DEF
 
shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, 
plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, against 
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including 
such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair 
Page  15
such goods;
(e)
carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with appropriate health, 
safety and environmental standards, satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Association, RS or the DEF shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of 
the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the 
Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with the PFI.
ANNEX B
     To
       SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
TA Sub-loan Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Annex B shall apply for the purposes 
of paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
A.
Terms
1.
The TA Sub-loans shall: (a) be charged semi-annually, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate based on the average Euro 
LIBOR for the preceding six month period, but such interest rate to be not less than two percent 
(2%) per annum; (b) have a maturity up to three years including a grace period up to six months; 
(c) shall be charged a commitment fee of 100 basis points on the committed amounts and not 
withdrawan from time to time; and (d) 100 basis points interest spread on the amount of 
Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
2.
Interest rates shall be reviewed by the Association, from time to time, and adjusted 
accordingly; and for longer maturity DEF shall obtain the Association’s prior approval.
3.
Sub-loans shall range from Euro 25,000 to Euro 125,000. The Association, on request 
from DEF, may agree to increase the size of Sub-loans on  a case-by-case basis upon full 
justification being provided by DEF. 
4.
The right of a TA Recipient to the use of the proceeds of its respective TA Sub- Loan 
shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such a Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
its respective TA Sub-loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with all legal and 
regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated if such right shall have 
been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.
B.
Conditions
1.
RS, through the DEF, shall: 
Page  16
(a)
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the TA 
Recipients their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the TA 
Sub-loan Agreements, as appropriate, in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part to enable 
the TA Recipients to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective TA Sub-loan 
Agreement all the obligations of each TA Recipient therein set forth, and not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(c)
exercise its rights under the TA Sub-loan Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
Page  17
to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Commercial Practices
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured 
locally and/or internationally on the basis of competitive price quotations obtained at least from 
three suppliers, to the extent possible, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as 
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefore, and such goods be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Sub-project.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $100,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods procured under Part B and Part C.2 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  18
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
Page  19
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 only the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
