      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020203


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P112456                                                Regional Trade Facilitation Project II

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Africa                                                 Finance & Markets



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-50070,IDA-H7250                                  30-Apr-2017                                                              27,500,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  14-Jun-2011                                          30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                            27,500,000.00                                                           0.00

  Revised Commitment                                              8,399,708.00                                                           0.00

  Actual                                                          7,209,643.20                                                           0.00




 Sector(s)
 Other Non-bank Financial Institutions(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Regional integration(33%):Trade facilitation and market access(33%):Export development and competitiveness(17%):Other trade and
 integration(17%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Nestor Ntungwanayo                 Fernando Manibog                     Christopher David Nelson           IEGFP (Unit 3)




2. Project Objectives and Components

a. Objectives
    There was an initial Bank's stand-alone Regional Trade Facilitation Project (RTFP, later called RTFP1) approved in 2001 to address political
    risk insurance in African countries, and closed in June 2013. The project under review was approved in 2011 (RTFP2) as a continuation of
    the RTFP1, but was designed as an Adaptable Program Lending (APL-1, APL-2, and APL-3). The legal framework of the RTFP2's APL-
    1 comprised (i) a project agreement between the International Development Association (IDA), and the African Trade Insurance Agency (ATI)
    as the implementing agency, and (ii) two financing agreements (FA) between IDA and the two Republics of Benin and Ghana. The Project
    Development Objective (PDO) was to facilitate private and public sector-led trade flows, investment and productive activities through the
    provision of insurance, coinsurance, reinsurance, financial instruments and related services (FA, p.6). The PDO of the RTFP2 and the
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



      RTFP1 was identical as stated in the FA between IDA and ATI of both projects.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      The project has only one component: to provide a financial facility that pools the capital contributed by African Member States (AMS) to
      subscribe for share capital in ATI. These funds enabled ATI to underwrite insurance policies to cover short-term to medium-term political
      risk as well as comprehensive credit insurance for private sector buyers, non-honouring of sovereign obligations or guarantees, and trade
      cover for sub-sovereign obligors. The proposed financing may only be used by ATI to fund operating costs, eligible investments, and share
      repurchases as well as insurance facility-related payments. Two countries were to be the beneficiaries of the facility resources: (i) an
      Insurance Facility for Ghana in the amount of US$20 million, and (ii) an Insurance Facility for Benin in the amount of US$7.5 million. At
      project closure, 96% of resources earmarked for Benin were disbursed, while those planned for Ghana had been canceled.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates

          • Costs: Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$27.5 million, with US$20 million earmarked for Ghana, and US$7.5
          million for Benin. Total actual costs were only US$7.2 million, or 26 % of the approved amount. 96% of the portion earmarked for
          Benin was disbursed, while the entire portion earmarked for Ghana was canceled, because the client did not fulfill conditions of
          effectiveness.
          • Financing: The lending instrument for RTFP2 was a Regional IDA Horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL), funded from the IDA-
          15.
          • Co-financing: SACE, an Italian export agency invested US$10 million to support ATI expansion, and the African Development
          Bank provided a US$1 million grant to ATI for capacity-building purposes. Ghana was expected to contribute to the project for an
          amount of US$20.0 million, but this plan did not materialize.
          • Borrower contribution: There was no planned borrower contribution for this project.
          • Dates: The project was approved on June, 14, 2011, and the original duration of the APL was until April 30, 2017, but it closed
          ahead of time on June 30, 2015 at the request of Benin Government, and because APL-2 and APL-3 did not materialize.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     The project’s objectives were highly relevant under the RTFP1 operation, and continued to be highly relevant under the RTFP2 until its
     closure. The key goal for both projects was to address limited availability of trade credit and finance for investment flows into the Sub-Saharan
     region. By establishing a credible insurance mechanism against losses caused by political risks, the initial and second projects sought to
     facilitate the financing of productive investments and cross-border trade. The provision of political risk insurance using a the RTF program was
     consistent with the strategies and private sector focus of the countries in the region, as expressed by the New Economic Partnership for
     African Development (NEPAD), which assumed that the lack of financing impeded private sector development and the expansion of productive
     activities in the region.
     The objectives of the RTF program are consistent with the World Bank’s 2008 Africa Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) under
     Pillar 1, which advocated stronger and better connected infrastructure platforms to help strengthen economies of scale and sharpen
     competitiveness, and under Pillar II, which supported institutional cooperation for economic integration. The objectives of the RTFP2 continued
     to be consistent with the Bank’s new Africa Strategy FY11-15, which endorsed the continued relevance of the RIAS and the need to expand
     support for capacity building of regional institutions. The objectives are in line with other key Bank strategic reports in the area of regional
     integration, including (i) the Africa Competitiveness Report (May, 2013), (ii) the “Africa Can Help Feed Africa” report (October, 2012), and (iii)
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



       the “De-fragmenting Africa: Deepening Regional Trade Integration in Goods and Services ” report (January, 2012). Finally, relevance of
       RTFP2’s objectives also stems from the fact that investor risk perceptions of Africa during recent years continue to be high, as all ATI member
       countries, with the exception of Zambia, were rated by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) as 6 or 7, on
       their risk classification scale, where 7 represents the highest risk.




       Rating
       Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

       Compared to the RTFP1 operation, the RTFP2 project design was improved through the harmonization of objectives in the Financing
       Agreements (FA) between IDA and the beneficiary States, and the FA between IDA and ATI. The project’s ability to attain its developmental
       objectives was compromised to some extent by its failure to attain sufficient critical mass of members.
       In terms of design, RTFP2 and RPTP1 had identical results frameworks, in terms of objectives, key outcomes, outputs and components,
       because IDA resources were used to pay up capital and provide operational resources for ATI. In the course of project implementation, the
       results framework was slated to align with ATI business projections. The causal chain was generally logical, as trade and credit insurance
       directly support trade and investment flows. Indirectly, trade and investment contribute to productive activities, although this could have been
       made more explicit in the PAD. In essence, the RTFP2 aimed to scale up the scope of results achieved during the first operation in terms of
       volume of trade and investment flows in the AMS.
       However, there were issues as regards to the results framework of the operation. First, it was unclear if the level of expected flows of trade and
       investment were the incremental results expected from either the project or the program. This lack of clarity triggered a review of the results
       matrix during the implementation support mission in March 2014. The review provided intermediate and final targets for key PDO and
       intermediate outcomes. The key problem in the design of the project was the lack of clarity among the results expected after each specific
       project of the program, and those expected from the entire, longer-term program.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to facilitate private and public sector-led trade flows, investment and productive activities
     through the provision of insurance, coinsurance, reinsurance, financial instruments and related services.

    Rationale
    (i) Promotion of investment and trade
    As reported in the ICR (p.15), ATI made significant progress in achieving growth in flows of both investment and trade (insured by ATI
    policies) in participating countries. Investment flows resulting from transactions insured by ATI jumped from a value of US$361 million at
    end-2010 to US$942 million by end-2013, and to US$2,016 million by end-2014, against a target of US$1,100.0 million. During the same
    period, trade flows triggered by ATI coverage increased from a value of US$87 million at end-2010 to US$767 million by end-2014, against
    a target of US$800.0 million. While the trade target was slightly missed, the combined value of investment and trade flows represented 18
    times the capital contribution of participating countries in ATI.
    However, the addition of Benin as an AMS resulted in limited Gross Written Premiums on the part of ATI, and investments and trade
    insured by ATI’s policies were also marginal. Similarly, net exposure increased marginally, and private participations through reinsurance
    and co-insurance did not increase much. Based on the above, even without the RTFP2, ATI would have produced most of the results,
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



building on RTFP1 achievements when it closed in June 2013, and on the momentum generated thereby. The key institutional structure of
ATI was completed under RTFP1, and ATI was a credible agency, with the ability to develop the political risk insurance market in the
region. RTFP2 added just one country, which did little to provide critical mass or logistic advantages for ATI to significantly expand its
activities.
(ii) Increased financial sustainability and strengthened ATI technical capacity:
As detailed in the ICR (p.15-16), ATI also made progress towards meeting its key financial objectives. As of end-June 2015, ATI’s Gross
Written Premium (GWP) revenues were estimated at US$8.09 million and Net Written Premium (NWP) revenue was US$4.27 million. It
achieved a Net Underwriting Income after Claims of US$2.22 million, leading to Net Underwriting Profits after Claims of US$1.14 million.
ATI’s net exposure increased substantially, from a 2010 base of US$90 million to US$514 million in 2015. The agency’s Paid-In Capital and
Reserves increased to US$183 million by 2015 (against a 2013 target of US$595 million). In respect of private participations, the target
leverage ratio was nearly achieved at 3.9 by end-June 2015. The number of members of ATI increased slightly from 15 to 18 during the
same period, far less than anticipated in the PAD by 30 new AMS. Private participation through reinsurance and co-insurance reached a
leverage ratio of 2.44 against a target of 4.00. The table below shows ATI performance in the key areas financial sustainability and
technical capacity. However, as noted above, most of the results would have been achieved without the RTFP2, given the momentum
already gained under RTFP1.
                                        Initial                          Target                              Actual
     Value of insurance policies        153                             500                                  514
     issued (in US$ million)
     Number of insurance policies       51                              120                                  191
     issued
     Leverage ratio (in %)              2.34                            4.0                                  2.44
     Number of private and public       15                              17                                   18
     sector members
     Ratio of incomes to costs (in      67%                             >100%                                132%
     %)
     Number of staff in ATI             24                              31                                   37
     Number of offices opened           3                               4                                    4
Some of the above performance fell short of the objectives set out in the PAD for ATI to be achieved by end-December 2013, although this
was mostly a function of the expansion in ATI’s country membership that had been anticipated, which failed to materialize. In areas not
dependent upon this membership expansion, namely ATI’s Return on Paid-In Capital and Reserves, and its Combined Ratio, ATI achieved
results that exceeded their targets.
In summary, efficacy is rated modest, because some of the project target indicators were not achieved, and for those that were achieved or
exceeded, most them occurred because of the momentum generated under the RTFP1 implementation.




Rating
Modest



5. Efficiency

The assessment of efficiency for a financial sector operation of this nature is difficult, as project funds were disbursed following
the Development Policy Operation (DPO) model. There was no economic analysis in the PAD, but there was an attempt to compare costs and
benefits, based on a range of assumptions for the additional capital being financed under the APL program, and the extent of its leveraging.
The projections in the PAD, based on the expectation of an expansion of AMS, turned out to be overambitious, and cannot be used to
update project costs and benefits.
During the RTFP2 implementation, only 5 policies were actually issued in Benin for a value of only US$1.6 million, with a leverage ratio of only
1.0 in terms of private participations generated through reinsurance and coinsurance. The value of trade and investment generated thereby
was only US$400,000 and US$700,000 respectively, suggesting that returns to investment were less than substantial. As such, efficiency for
the RTFP2 operation is rated as Modest.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                                Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                               0
 Appraisal                                                                  0
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

                                                                                                               0
 ICR Estimate                                                               0
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The objectives of the RTFP2 project were substantially relevant, but the relevance of its design was modest, because of the lack of clarity of the
results framework--specifically project versus program results. Assessment of progress toward program outcome is difficult to conclude for two
reasons (i) there were no clear program targets either in RTFP1 or RTFP2, and (ii) while the APL-1 has just been completed, the APL-2 and
APL3 were canceled. Efficacy was also modest, because the addition of Benin as an AMS resulted in marginal investments and trade
flows insured by ATI’s policies; net exposure increased marginally, and private participations through reinsurance and co-insurance did not
increase much. Finally, increased financial sustainability and strengthened ATI capacity cannot be principally attributed to the RTFP2. Efficiency
of the project was also difficult to assess because both the PAD and the ICR did not provide sufficient material. This review rates efficiency as
modest, because of limited project resource and outcome. Overall, the outcome achieved under RTFP2 is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The key challenges ahead are how to guarantee the financial strength and the technical capacity of ATI, and how to sustain the growth of
investment and trade flows in the long run. ATI has been able to attract investments from non-state institutions, such as the African Development
Bank, Kenya Re and SACE. It has been profitable since 2012 and has posted positive net underwriting profits, as well as a positive return to
Paid-In Capital and Reserves. However, it has yet to achieve a critical mass of members, sufficient to increase its paid-in capital to a level
allowing it to set aside risk reserves and pay for comprehensive treaty reinsurance to protect against catastrophic losses. The PAD had
estimated that ATI would need to attain a minimum share capital of over US$300 million, from the current level of capital of only around US$180
million, so as to be able to offset the projected increase in its operating expenses. Without a significant expansion in its membership beyond the
current level, ATI remains vulnerable to such risks.
Another key feature to ATI’s status as an insurer in the market is its ability to retain the A stable international credit rating provided by Standard &
Poor’s (S&P). The two risks that could undermine its rating are the Preferred Creditor Status, and ATI’s ability to maintain growth of its
premiums. The above elements become more important in light of the fact that the explicit support provided by the World Bank, which had
provided a degree of reassurance to S&P, disappeared with the closing of the project.
Another key risk to development outcome is the Bank's inability during FY16 and FY17 to provide additional ressources that would have
allowed increased participation of AMS. The closure of the APL without any exit option threatens the sustainability of ATI, and the project
objective.
Based on the above constrains facing the future of ATI's business, the risk to development outome is rated as substantial.



a.    Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



     Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
   The RTFP2 was a continuation of the original project, and there were no major design changes involved at its appraisal. The project was also
   intended to be the first in an APL series that intended to facilitate new countries to become members of ATI. The project added just one
   country (Benin) that was too small to significantly affect the dynamics of ATI’s operation or expand its geographical footprint.
   The project's results framework was essentially unchanged from RTFP1 and had targets that were predicated on the assumption that the APL
   program would trigger a sizeable increase in new memberships and hence in equity contributions. The above assumption turned out to be
   unrealistic, and there were no benchmarks to measure the project’s performance on an incremental membership basis. Assessment of project
   developmental outcomes had to be conducted in a context of a smaller number of countries becoming members, or of early termination of the
   program. The definition of the program- versus project-level objectives and the corresponding outcome targets was the weak spot in the
   project's design.
   Key risks to project outcomes and mitigation measures were identified during appraisal and included (a) the possibility of a failure to recover
   underwriting losses from ATI’s member countries, and (b) governance failure and business politicization. The latter risk materialized in the
   case of Kenya, whereby ATI’s ultimate recourse of ejecting a member country accounting for nearly half of ATI’s exposure was at a practical
   level challenging to actually implement. The risk that country expansion targets would not be met was not identified at appraisal and will have
   to be dealt with after project closure.
   Financial management and other implementation arrangements were overall adequate. Robust financial management arrangements were
   already in place on account of RTFP1, and existing structures were easily replicated in the new project. ATI also had a strong technical
   infrastructure in place, including hardware, software and appropriate manuals and guidelines.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The ICR (para 64-65) reported that the Bank provided advice to ATI on the best approach to design and carry out financial sustainability and
   governance reforms necessary to improve its long-term sustainability. The Bank had an observer status on ATI’s Board of Directors, and
   provided insights into the Board’s decision-making and the working of the Board’s Technical Committee. During implementation support
   missions, the Bank advised ATI management on how to strengthen the agency’s internal processes, including its risk management
   framework. The Bank team also worked with other donors in the provision of TA to support ATI’s risk management function. Bank's regular
   reviews of ATI’s risk framework was a key ingredient supporting the positive credit rating received by the Agency for the past six years.
   The Bank team conducted regular supervision missions and maintained close contact with ATI’s management, allowing for follow-up on urgent
   issues between missions. While the Bank team worked with ATI to update baselines and targets for results indicators based on ATI's 3 year
   rolling business plans, there was no medium term review, as part of the funds were canceled, triggering premature closure of the project.
   Finally, fiinancial management support was provided from the Bank’s country office in Nairobi.




   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   There is no basis to assess each individual government's performance during project implementation, given ATI's regional nature. While
   several governments played a role in the design and ownership of the program, the unresolved dispute between ATI and the Government
   of Kenya regarding the claim against the Kenya Highway Agency appears problematic and illustrates the potential risks on the path to
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



   project outcomes. Left unresolved for too long, it could undermine the credibility of ATI’s preferred credit status and raise questions about
   the agency’s international credit rating. The failure to arrive at an amicable resolution for a period of over a year means that peer pressure
   from other member governments has not been particularly effective and could be construed as an indication of their lack of strong
   commitment to the functioning of the Agency.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   ATI has faced a number of challenges dating from its inception to the present day. These include inadequacies in its capital structure,
   product misalignment, a steep learning curve for its management, and the constraints of a relatively small size for an insurance agency of
   its kind. Notwithstanding this, ATI has performed well in terms of financial sustainability - it has made progress towards reducing its cost
   ratio to at least 50 percent, as recommended by the Bank team, though it has some ways to go in setting up an adequate level of reserves
   and being able to pay a minimum dividend of at least 0.75 per cent of shareholder funds. It has also achieved a degree of credibility in the
   eyes of international ratings agencies, albeit with the explicit support of the World Bank and other development partners, and put into place
   improvements in its risk management framework and in corporate governance, including through periodic evaluation of its Board’s
   functioning and performance by specialized consultants and oversight of its portfolio by a Board Risk Committee, and inclusion of
   independent directors selected for their expertise and entrusted to chair key Board committees.
   ATI will need to review its institutional arrangements, including the potential for outsourcing some of its functions, and organizational
   structure, including Board composition and senior management mission, with a view to achieving best international practice, no longer
   dependent upon World Bank support or supervision by the close of that project.




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The project's results framework contained identical PDO outcomes and indicators as for RTFP1, with a few additional indicators included to
   monitor ATI’s continuing efforts to increase membership in ATI. Performance targets were linked to a three-year rolling business plan, prepared
   by ATI and agreed by its Board and IDA. The lack of distinction between program and project outcomes triggered a review of the results matrix
   during the implementation support mission of March 2014. The review provided intermediary and final targets for key PDO and intermediary
   outcomes indicators.
   A key weakness of the results matrix was that the volume indicators and targets were not based on incremental additions of member countries.
   Hence, once Ghana dropped out of the project and other country membership targets fell behind their time frames, aggregate targets for all the
   volume indicators automatically became impossible to attain. The problem of attribution and counterfactuals, namely how to net out private
   sector flows that would have taken place even without ATI from the gross flows being measured was the key obstacle to assessment project
   performance. The definition of the main outcome indicators, relating to trade and investment could have been improved.




b. M&E Implementation
    ATI had a track record of preparing financial and management reports on a regular basis, including Quarterly Management Reports, providing
   details of business performance, financial position and revised forecast, and membership development and partnerships, Interim Audit
   Reports, and Annual Financial Statements, and Annual Business Strategies. To that extent, a framework was already in place for M&E of the
   agency’s performance that could be used to track project implementation progress. ATI’s actual performance in the monitoring of the project
   improved over time, and project-related indicators were more systematically tracked and recorded.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)




c. M&E Utilization
   ATI's reporting on financial and governance performance has allowed the Bank and the donor community to provide ATI with adequate
   advice and the appropriate TA, the two factors that have helped ATI to secure a stable A grade from top international rating agencies. The
   response from all stakeholders was delayed as regards to the need of expanded AMS participation to the ATI's paid-up capital.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards

   As in the case of RTFP1, the project was categorized as a Financial Intermediary Assessment. This meant that the transactions that ATI
   would insure as a result of the project would be demand-driven and unknown at the time of appraisal. Towards this end, ATI would make
   use of its Environment Operations Manual (EOM), prepared under RTFP1, which contained a framework to apply to projects of different
   environmental and social risk categories (low, intermediate and high risk). The EOM stated clearly that ATI would need to verify through its
   own staff or outside experts that any sub-projects it insured met the environmental requirements of relevant national guidelines, in addition
   to being consistent with the World Bank’s safeguard policies. During appraisal of RTFP2, a review conducted of the operational efficacy of
   the EOM, indicated that ATI had indeed been assessing environmental and social risk appropriately, consistent with the Bank’s safeguard
   policies and guidelines. Further, the PAD indicated that a review during appraisal, by the Bank team, of the adequacy of country
   environmental requirements specifically for the two countries, Benin and Ghana, relevant to the project and the proposed environmental
   assessment (EA) arrangements for subprojects in those countries, found that the EOM remained relevant for use in the RTFP2-APL
   program.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Unlike RTFP1, the Project did not provide a budget for technical assistance or towards ATI’s operating costs. The PAD envisaged that ATI
   would fund and procure goods and services in accordance with its own administrative procedures, as agreed with their Board of Directors and
   the World Bank. As regards financial management, the FM assessment conducted in 2010 indicated that ATI had adequate FM capacity to
   implement both original and follow-on RTF programs, having satisfactorily established effective institutional and FM arrangements, including a
   Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Financial statements were prepared and reported to the Bank quarterly. With the
   exception of one or two early ISRs (when it was too early to accurately assess performance), based on the PRIMA10 assessment financial
   management was rated satisfactory throughout.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                        Substantial                        ---
                                                                                                                Quality at Entry was Moderately
                                                                                                                Unsatisfactory, while Supervision
                                                                                                                was Moderately Satisfactory. In
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Unsatisfactory          these cases, the overall Bank
                                                                                                                Performance rating follows the
                                                                                                                Outcome rating, which is
                                                                                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Some of the lessons identified by the ICR were either findings or recommendations. This review concurs with the three lessons identified in the
ICR as rephrased below:
(i) Scale of business matters for a regional risk insurance agency to operate on a sound footing. With only 10 member states and a paid-
up capital of less than US$200 million, ATI had, in 2012, only 13 percent of the estimated market for political and commercial risk insurance in
Sub-Saharan Africa. Expanding country membership to achieve a critical mass was therefore essential for ATI to reduce its vulnerability on this
account, as well as to be able to play a more effective developmental role in the region. Reaching critical mass is also important for ATI to be
able to maintain its A/Stable international credit rating, so as to be perceived by brokers, reinsurers and coinsurers as a trustworthy player in the
international insurance market.
(ii) When the Bank invests in entities operating within a global industry, a regulatory mechanism needs to be internalized in the
governance arrangements or take the form of an external regulator. The mechanism will ensure that benchmarks are continually reviewed
and updated beyond Bank supervision to guarantee that a public sector entity like ATI keeps pace with its internationally competitive peers,
without taking excessive risk.
(iii) The Bank should avoid making short-lived regional programmatic commitments, but rather invest upfront in securing a critical
mass for a single operation. Mobilizing country participation in regional projects takes time and capacity building, which should not be
underestimated. RTFP II pursued a programmatic approach designed to allow members to join when ready. However, by the time a critical mass
of countries was ready to join (ECOWAS), regional IDA funding was not available due to competing demands.
(iv) Another lesson identified by IEG is that for a regional entity to stay the course of competitiveness in a complex political insurance
industry, it has to rely on advice of top-notch institutions, including multilateral banks and first-rate management firms.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

Overall, the quality of the ICR was substantial, because it covered thoroughly all aspects of project design, implementation and ATI
performance in terms of outputs and outcomes. In particular, annexes illustrating program achievements provided useful information. However,
isolating the project contribution to outputs and outcomes was complicated by a lack of clarity in the relationship between this project and the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Regional Trade Facilitation Project II (P112456)



entire program, and in the results framework design. A better discussion of the integration between the project and the program could have
increased the ICR quality. Finally, Some lessons identified were derived from the project experience, but others were either findings or
recommendations.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
