Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4512 GE 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second East-West Highway Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 6, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4512 GE 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 6, 2008, entered into between Georgia (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“Association”). 
 
(A)  WHEREAS pursuant to a financing agreement dated 
 
December 20, 2007, between Georgia (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) (the “Financing Agreement”), the 
Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty-two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,400,000) in 
support of financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement (the 
“Project”) (Credit No. 4373-GE); 
 
(B) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Financing Agreement by an amount equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,800,000); and 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - AMENDMENTS TO THE FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
1.01. 
Article I of the Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of the Financing Agreement and
 
this 
Amending Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to the Financing Agreement, as amended hereby.” 
 
1.02. 
Section 2.01 of the Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement an amount equivalent to 
thirty five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
Page  3
2
(SDR 35,200,000
)
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”); which includes: (a) an 
original amount equivalent to twenty-two million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,400,000) (the Initial Credit); and (b) an additional 
amount equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,800,000) (the Additional Credit) to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
1.03. 
Section 2.06 of the Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“2.06.  The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with 
repayment schedule set forth in the Annex to this Amending Agreement.” 
 
1.04. 
The table under paragraph A.2 of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement is hereby revised as follows: 
 
“Allocations 
Amount of the 
Initial Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Amount of the 
Additional Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
Goods, works, 
consultants’ 
services, Training 
and Incremental 
Operating Costs for 
the Project 
 
22,400,000 
 
12,800,000 70% 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 
 
22,400,000 
 
12,800,000” 
 
1.05. 
Schedule 3 to the Financing Agreement is hereby revised as indicated in the 
Annex to this Amending Agreement. 
 
1.06. 
The title “Definitions” under the Appendix to the Financing Agreement is hereby 
amended to read as follows: 
 
“
Section I
:
Definitions
”
1.07. 
Section I
:
Definitions under the Appendix to the Financing Agreement is hereby 
amended by adding a new Sub-section 16 which shall read as follows: 
 
Page  4
3
“16. 
“Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the Financing 
Agreement between the Recipient and the Association, dated December 20, 
2007.” 
 
1.08. 
A new Section II: Modifications to the General Conditions is added under the 
Appendix to the Financing Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“Section II:
Modifications to the General Conditions
:
1. 
Section 3.01(b) is revised to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from date sixty days after 
the date of the Financing Agreement to the respective dates, on which amounts 
are withdrawn by the Recipient from the Financing Account or cancelled, 
provided however that the commitment charge on the Additional Credit shall 
accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement.  
The Commitment Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rate as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to this Section.  The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next Payment Date in that year.  The Commitment 
Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.  The 
Commitment Charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 
30-day months.” 
 
1.09. 
All other provisions of the Financing Agreement shall remain in full force and 
effect. 
 
ARTICLE II - EFFECTIVE DATE; TERMINATION 
2.01. 
This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory 
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution 
and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Recipient have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
2.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Recipient, that this Amending Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Recipient and is legally binding upon the Recipient in accordance with its terms. 
 
2.03. 
This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Page  5
4
2.04. 
If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a date 
ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this 
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Financing Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending 
Agreement had not been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names
 in Tbilisi, Georgia
,
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/ Nikoloz Gilauri  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Tamara Sulukhia     
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
ANNEX
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
A. 
Repayment Schedule for the Initial Credit 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage) * 
 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing February 15, 2018 to and including 
August 15, 2027 
 
5% 
B. 
Repayment Schedule for the Additional Credit 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage) * 
 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing February 15, 2019 to and including 
August 15, 2028 
 
5% 
________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except 
as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions.
Page  7
6
