                                 Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2343



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-43730 IDA-45120)



                                     ON A

                                 CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.2 MILLION
                     (US$ 55.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                                 GEORGIA

                                     FOR A

         SECOND EAST-WEST HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                             December 28, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective October 24, 2012)

                            Currency Unit = GEL
                                1.00 GEL = USD 0.60
                                   USD 1 = 1.65 GEL

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 – December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT      Annual Average Daily Traffic              ISR       Implementation Status Report
ADB       Asian Development Bank                    JBIC      Japan Bank of International Cooperation
AF        Additional Financing                      KF        Kuwait Fund
AM        Aide-Memoire                              M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
CD        Country Director                          MOED      Ministry of Economic Development
CIS       Commonwealth of Independent States        MOF       Ministry of Finance
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy              MRDI      Ministry of Regional Development and
                                                              Infrastructure
CR        (Borrower’s) Completion Report            MS        Moderately Satisfactory
CY        Calendar Year                             MTR       Mid-term Review
E60       East-West Highway/European Corridor E60   MU        Moderately Unsatisfactory
EA        Environmental Assessment                  NPV       Net Present Value
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and      OP        Operational Policy
          Development
ECA       Europe and Central Asia                   PAP       Project Affected People
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return          PAD       Project Appraisal Document
EMP       Environmental Management Plan             PDO       Project Development Objective
EWHIP-4   East-West Highway Improvement Project-4   RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
EU        European Union                            RDMED/R   Road Department of the Ministry of
                                                    D         Economic Development
FEWHIP    First East-West Highway Improvement       RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
          Project
FY        Fiscal Year                               SDR       Special Drawing Rights (Currency unit)
GEL       Georgian Lari (Currency unit)             SEWHIP    Second East-West Highway Improvement
                                                              Project
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                    SLRP      (First) Secondary and Local Roads
                                                              Project
GNI       Gross National Income                     SLRP-II   Secondary and Local Roads Project-II
GOG       Government of Georgia                     TA        Technical Assistance
HDM-4     Highway Design and Maintenance model,     TEWHIP    Third East-West Highway Improvement
          Version4                                            Project
HR        Human Resources                           TRRC      Transport Reform and Rehabilitation
                                                              Center
IA        Implementing Agency                       TTL       Task Team Leader
ICR       Implementation Completion & Results       UN        United Nations
          Report
IDA       International Development Association     WB        World Bank
IFC       International Finance Corporation
      Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
    Country Director: Henry Kerali
     Sector Manager: Juan Gaviria
Project Team Leader: Jean-Francois Marteau
   ICR Team Leader: Natalya Stankevich
                                                     COUNTRY
                                                    Project Name



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 53
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Second East-West
Country:                Georgia                   Project Name:
                                                                            Highway Improvement
Project ID:             P094044                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43730,IDA-45120
ICR Date:               12/28/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 GEORGIA
Original Total
                        XDR 22.40M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 34.72M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 34.72M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Roads Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/21/2007      Effectiveness:             03/10/2008         03/10/2008
                                                                                    10/01/2008
Appraisal:            10/05/2007      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                    02/20/2012
Approval:             12/18/2007      Mid-term Review:           12/01/2009         05/13/2009
                                      Closing:                   02/29/2012         06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower            Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      2                     2
Roads and highways                                                    98                  98


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                50                  50
Other public sector governance                                        25                  25
Regional integration                                                  25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Henry G. R. Kerali                   D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Juan Gaviria                         Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Jean-Francois Marteau                Olivier P. Le Ber
ICR Team Leader:           Natalya Stankevich
ICR Primary Author:        Natalya Stankevich


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives are:
  (i) To contribute to the gradual reduction of road transport costs and improve ease of
transit, and safety along the central part of Georgia's East-West corridor, through
upgrading a segment of the East-West Highway from Tbilisi to Rikoti; and
  (ii) To strengthen the capacity of the government agencies (and particularly RDMED)
to develop and implement a traffic safety program.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target          Completion or
                                                documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Transit time from Igoeti to Sveneti (Minutes)
Value
quantitative or   19                        12                                 11.8
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                02/29/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          The target is slightly exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Vehicle operating cost from Igoeti to Sveneti (cars in US$/km)
Value
quantitative or   0.20                      0.18                               0.18
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                02/29/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Fully met
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Vehicle operating cost from Igoeti to Sveneti (trucks in US$/km)
Value
quantitative or   0.76                      0.72                               0.71
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                02/29/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          The target is slightly exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     National road safety action plan with targets and monitoring indicators devised
Value
quantitative or   No                        Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                12/30/2008                         01/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Fully met.
achievement)
                  National road safety action plan with targets and monitoring indicators under
Indicator 5 :
                  implementation
Value
quantitative or No                          Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/01/2007                    12/30/2008                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Fully met
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                             Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of km upgraded for Igoeti to Sveneti
Value
(quantitative     0                          48                                  48
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                 02/29/2012                          06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Fully met
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Igoeti-Sveneti built incorporating safety specifications
Value
(quantitative     No                         Yes                                 Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                 12/29/2009                          06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Fully met
achievement)
                  New Accident Data System in place and data available and in use by key
Indicator 3 :
                  agencies to develop safety interventions in each sector
Value
(quantitative     No                         Yes                                 No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                 12/29/2009                        06/30/2012
Comments          The first stage - development of specifications for improvement of the current
(incl. %          system was completed (but not creation of a completely new system). The
achievement)      second stage will be implemented under on-going TEWHIP AF
Indicator 4 :     Number of fatalities per 10,000 cars
Value
(quantitative     14.5                       12                                  6.8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2008                 12/29/2011                          12/29/2011
Comments
                  Indicator was added under AF. Exceeded by 43% for target year of 2011. Data
(incl. %
                  for 2012 is not available yet.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Percentage of vehicle occupants wearing seatbelts in Tbilisi
Value
(quantitative     0                          Not provided                        100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007                 12/29/2011                           06/30/2012
Comments          No target value was set at appraisal of the parent project; the indicator was
(incl. %          removed under the AF and was not reported in AMs/ISRs. It is reported in the
achievement)      Borrower's Completion Report
Indicator 6 :     Percentage of vehicle occupants wearing seatbelts on E60
Value
(quantitative     60%                       Not provided      85%          100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007               12/29/2011         12/29/2011   06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Exceeded by 18%
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     RDMED road safety unit strengthened (staff number)
Value
(quantitative     3                        5                               5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007               12/29/2011                      12/29/2011
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of hazardous locations improved per year
Value
(quantitative     0                        20                              24
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2007               12/29/2011                      06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Exceeded by 20%
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     High level multi agency coordination body operating
Value
(quantitative     No                       Yes                             Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   10/01/2007                 12/29/2008                       05/24/2009
                This role was given to the existing Transport Commission (TC) but no evidence
Comments
                showing TC performed this role. No Secretariat was created to help TC
(incl. %
                undertake daily monitoring and assessment of the National Traffic Safety
achievement)
                Strategy
Indicator 10 : Roads constructed, non-rural
Value
(quantitative   0 km                       24 km                            24 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2007                   02/29/2012                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Core Sector Indicator introduced in 2009
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Roads rehabilitated, non-rural
Value
(quantitative   0 km                       24 km                            24 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2007                   02/29/2012                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Core Sector Indicator introduced in 2009
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    Roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified roads
Value
(quantitative     76 %                        93 %                               90 %
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2006                  02/29/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Core Sector Indicator introduced in 2009
achievement)
Indicator 13 :    Size of the total classified network
Value
(quantitative     1495 km                     1495 km                            1495 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2006                  02/29/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Core Sector Indicator introduced in 2009
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                         IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     04/07/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     05/28/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  3     11/12/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      16.69
  4     07/04/2009             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      35.05
                                                          Moderately
  5     11/06/2009       Moderately Satisfactory                                              49.70
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                          Moderately
  6     05/26/2010       Moderately Satisfactory                                              52.22
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                          Moderately
  7     01/31/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                                              53.19
                                                        Unsatisfactory
  8     07/05/2011       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory                  53.19
                                                          Moderately
  9     06/26/2012       Moderately Satisfactory                                              54.78
                                                        Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Additional Financing to cover a
 10/01/2008       Y       S       S          14.05   financing gap which was
                                                     anticipated during the
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     preparation of SEWHIP, due to
                                                     limitations on the amount of
                                                     IDA funding which Georgia
                                                     was able to access at that time
                                                     of the original project approval
                                                     Extended the closing date by 4
                                                     months to complete the
                                                     remaining civil works and
 02/20/2012               MS    MS           54.78
                                                     finalize finalize pending land
                                                     acquisition and resettlement
                                                     issues


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Country background. Georgia is a small country with a population of 4.5 million1
located to the south of the Caucasus mountain range. The peaceful Rose Revolution in late
2003 brought into office a government of reformers. As a result of the Government of
Georgia’s (GOG) prudent macroeconomic policies and implementation of structural
reforms, growth was 9.6% in 2005 and 9.4% in 2006. However, the country’s GNI per
capita of US$1,560 in 2006 was one of lowest among lower middle-income countries and
the incidence of poverty remained relatively flat at about 30% during 2003-2006.

1.1.2 Road sector background. The country is located on the shortest route between
Europe and Azerbaijan, Armenia and the Central Asian Republics through its Black Sea
ports, and also links Russia and Turkey. Trade with neighboring countries, both transit
and bilateral, is thus an important feature of the economy. At the time of Project appraisal
it was the second largest sector of the economy, accounting for 13% of GDP and 11% of
employment. Transport, storage and communications also substantially increased their
contribution to the total output, from 4.6% of GDP in 1996 to 11.5% in 2006. Georgia’s
road network consists of 1,497 km of international roads, 5,446 km of secondary roads,
and 13,386 km of local roads. During the preparation of SEWHIP, 70% of international
roads were in good or fair condition; 60% of secondary roads were in poor condition and
all local roads were, on average, in poor condition 2. The often rough topography, low-
capacity highways (often only 7 m wide without shoulders), inadequate maintenance
regime, poor technical standards of vehicles, and other adverse conditions were main
reasons for slow traffic flow and high risk of accidents.

1.1.3 The modernization and improvement of its transport infrastructure became one of
the GOG’s priorities in order to integrate Georgia with world markets and to sustain high
economic growth rates experienced in 2005 and 2006. While road conditions improved as
a result of dramatic increase in rehabilitation and maintenance funding and substantial
support of the international community, road infrastructure remained inadequate to
accommodate significant traffic growth. This resulted in longer transit times, despite the
relatively shorter distances, and added to transport costs and deterred usage of the
Georgian transit route. Development of the East-West Highway (E60), a major
international transit corridor, was seen as an opportunity to support growth in export-
oriented activities, which would increase employment and broaden asset-ownership, and
revive Georgia’s tourist industry for the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)


1
 This number does not include population of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
2
  The PAD of the SLRP, May 28, 2004. The road condition statistics given in the PAD of the SEWHIP
seemed to be incorrect and was inconsistent with the statistics given in other documents reporting about the
same period of time. The PAD of SEWHP reported a bit too high share of international roads in good
condition and too low share of secondary roads in poor condition – “about 92% [of international roads
were] in good to fair condition? and “28% [of secondary roads] in poor condition?.


                                                     1
market and niche markets in Europe and the Far East. In 2006, the GOG started the East-
West Highway rehabilitation and improvement program projected over the next 20 years
for an overall estimated cost of approximately US$l.5 to US$2 billion. It used its own
budget for the 16 km upgrade from Natakhtari to Agaiani on the E60 to dual carriageway,
which was half completed by September 2006. This was followed by two sections
financed by the International Development Association (IDA) via the First East-West
Highway Improvement Project (FEWHIP) and the Second East-West Highway
Improvement Project (SEWHIP).

1.1.4 At the time of Project appraisal, the GOG and the public started paying more
attention to the issue of road traffic safety. The road traffic fatality rate in Georgia was 13
deaths per 10,000 vehicles. That was significantly higher than the rates in Eastern European
countries 3, and much higher than the approximately 2 deaths per 10,000 vehicles in the best
performing European Union (EU) countries. The GOG began to significantly better equip
the Patrol Police, resurface some main roads, enforce drunk driving and seatbelt wearing,
install traffic monitoring devices in Tbilisi, and implement other such measures. However,
the GOG realized that the traffic safety situation would become worse in the near future,
because the country was entering the “explosive? phase of motorization - at the level of
about 90 cars per 1,000 population 4 and effective mitigation measures were needed. The
Project intended to use the E60 as a demonstration corridor, and address traffic safety by
first improving the road safety engineering capacity at the Roads Department (RD) and
assisting the RD to improve traffic safety on the E60 and other roads.

1.1.5 Rationale for Bank involvement. The main rationale for the Bank assistance was
the Bank’s in-depth knowledge and broad experience in the road sector in Georgia and
world-wide. The Project was designed (i) to continue the Bank support of the
Government’s priority of improving the E60 — which started with the FEWHIP
approved by the IDA Board on December 5, 2006; and (ii) to assist the GOG in
developing the beginning of a traffic safety program. The Bank was given a leading role
among development partners – KF, JBIC, ADB and EBRD - to provide a very significant
share of the E60 Highway program, while the other partners were planning to contribute
in various ways through the financing of short sections of the E60 or feasibility studies of
other sections for future investments.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

1.2.1   The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were:

(i)     To contribute to the gradual reduction of road transport costs and improve ease of
transit, and safety along the central part of Georgia's East-West corridor, through
upgrading a segment of the East-West Highway from Tbilisi to Rikoti; and


3
  According to a 2004 unpublished World Bank working paper, fatality rates in other ECA countries were:
Bosnia 3/10,000 vehicles, Croatia 5/10,000 vehicles, Russia 12/10,000 vehicles, Serbia 5/10,000 vehicles,
Turkey 8/10,000 vehicles.
4
  Annex 1 of the PAD stated 115 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants at the time of project appraisal in 2008.


                                                   2
(ii) To strengthen the capacity of the government agencies (and particularly the
RDMED) to develop and implement a traffic safety program.

1.2.2 The indicators proposed for the monitoring and evaluation of Project performance
included:

    (A) Project Outcome Indicators
•   Reduction in transit time/vehicle operating cost from Igoeti to Sveneti; and
•   National road safety action plan with targets and monitoring indicators devised and
    implemented.

    (B) Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
•   Number of km upgraded (2 lanes);
•   Igoeti-Sveneti road segment built incorporating safety specifications;
•   New accident data system in place and data available and in use by key agencies to
    develop safety interventions in each sector;
•   Percentage of vehicle occupants wearing seat belts on E60 highway and in Tbilisi;
•   RDMED road safety unit strengthened;
•   Number of hazardous locations improved per year; and
•   High level multi agency coordination body operating.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1 The PDOs were not affected by two restructurings, i.e., an Additional Financing
(AF) in October 2008 and an extension of the Project closing date in February 2012 (see
details in Section 1.7). However, the Results Framework was updated under the AF.
Specifically, the target values were provided for three Intermediate Outcome Indicators
which were related to the Road Safety Component and awaited the adoption of the National
Traffic Safety Strategy by the Government in July 2008. The indicators included: (i) a new
accident data system in place, and data available and in use by key agencies to develop
safety interventions in each sector — with the target value of “yes? by 2009; (ii) the
number of fatalities per 10,000 cars — with the target value of 12 by 2011; and (iii) the
percentage of vehicle occupants wearing seat belts on E60 — with the target value of 85%
by 2011. In addition, the AF incorporated a new indicator of number of fatalities per
10,000 km — with a baseline of 14.5 and the target value of 12 by 2011. The indicator of
percentage of vehicle occupants wearing seatbelts in Tbilisi was removed from the Results
Framework of the AF, but the Project Paper did not mention this change.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The primary target groups, as implied in several sections of the PAD, were
expected to include road users and communities either living along the E60 Highway or
connected to it through access or local roads. Road users were to benefit from: (i) better
road quality and level of serviceability; (ii) avoiding or deferring costly congestion
expected on the basis of mid-term traffic projections; (iii) better road safety through new


                                            3
alignments and city bypasses avoiding hazardous crossing of urban areas by heavy transit
traffic; and (iv) savings derived from shorter travel times. The Project was to directly
contribute to economic development by reducing transportation costs and linking
communities to Tbilisi — a center for employment, and an outlet for agricultural products
and commercial goods. Improvement of road safety was to also reduce the huge annual
economic losses being sustained from road accidents, and the resultant poverty amongst
road accident casualties and their families.

1.4.2 The secondary group of beneficiaries was expected to include the GOG, including
the RD, which would receive assistance in initiating a traffic safety program on the E60
Highway — which could be rolled out and expanded — and would also benefit from the
improved condition of Igoeti-Sveneti section on the E60 Highway, in order to further the
Government's priorities of increasing regional trade, developing a transit economy, and
encouraging investment in growth sectors. In addition, the RD was to benefit from the
Road Safety Component in building its road safety management capacity, and to contribute
— through improvement of a condition and capacity of a section of the E60 Highway — to
the growth of tourism, which is an important sector of the Georgian economy.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

1.5.1 Component 1: Upgrade of the Igoeti to Sveneti section of the E60 Highway
from two to four lanes including the construction of four bridges at Igoeti bypass
(US$70.5 million): This component was to support: (i) civil works for the construction of
a new two-lane carriage way along a 24-km section of the E60 Highway from Igoeti to
Sveneti between KP55 and KP79, the construction of four bridges to cross over a small
and narrow valley and the Lekhura River at the Igoeti Bypass and the rehabilitation of the
existing two-lane carriageway; (ii) consultant services for the supervision of the works;
and (iii) consultancy services for the design of another section of the E60 Highway — to
be specified by the GOG at a later date — to help prepare a future project. The
construction of the new carriageway was expected to be mostly within the right of way
already owned by the RDMED. About 9 hectares of land was expected to be acquired for
the construction of traffic interchanges in order to connect the Igoeti Bypass to the
existing alignment by the Lekhura River. Land acquisition and resettlement costs were to
be financed solely by the GOG.

1.5.2 Component 2: Road Safety (US$2.13 million): This component was to support
works, specialized consultancy services, training, and equipment as needed to strengthen
the capacity of the RDMED to develop and implement a traffic safety program along the
E60 Corridor and other roads. It was expected to rely mostly on training qualified
individuals in the RDMED. The road safety component included engineering
improvements in the E60 — especially between Tbilisi to Rikoti — and other roads
focusing on low cost safety measures (blackspots removal), supply and installation of
guardrails in various locations and features to provide better guidance (marking and
signing) for road users. It also included the development of safety management capability
and capacity-building in RDMED to deal with blackspots removal as well as developing
new standards for road safety (marking, signing, traffic management, etc.).



                                            4
1.5.3 Component 3: Project implementation (US$0.72 million): This component was
to fund consultant services for the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC),
project audits and incremental operational costs to support implementation of the Project.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1   There were no changes to the Project components.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 The Project had two level-two restructurings: (i) the first one was approved as an
AF with an additional credit in an amount of US$20.0 million equivalent by the Board of
Directors on October 30, 2008; and (ii) the second was approved by the Country Director
(CD) on February 20, 2012.

1.7.2 The AF, or first level-two restructuring, was prepared to cover a financing gap
that was anticipated during the preparation of the SEWHIP, due to limitations on the
amount of IDA funding that Georgia was able to access at that time. The AF was needed
during the first quarter of CY2009 to maintain the pace of implementation and achieve
seamless disbursements. The original total cost of the Project was estimated at US$80
million, but this had since been revised upward to US$90 million — mainly due to the
depreciation by 18% of the US Dollar against the Georgian Lari (GEL).

1.7.3 The second level-two restructuring extended the closing of the Project by four
months — from February 29, 2012 to June 30, 2012. This extension was requested by
Georgia’s Ministry of Finance (MOF) to ensure the completion of the remaining Project
activities, including remaining civil works, remedial works, rectifying environmental
measures, pending land acquisition and resettlement issues. There were some changes to
implementation arrangements mid-way through Project implementation with the transfer
of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and procurement responsibilities from the TRRC 5
to the RD — this was accomplished without significant problems. This change took place
when the Third East-West Highway Project (TEWHIP) was approved by the Bank in
September 2009. There were no changes to Project design, scope or scale.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Soundness of the background analysis. The preparation of the SEWHIP was
initiated in 2006, and it was the continuation of a Bank commitment to support the GOG
in the E60 Highway Improvement Program. The Project preparation and Project design
were built on the lessons drawn from the on-going similar Bank-funded road projects in


5
  TRRC" which stands for the "Eurasia Transport Corridor Investment Center"/"Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center" of MOED was established in 2000 to assist in the implementation of transport sector
projects.


                                                    5
the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region and from the then on-going road projects —
the FEWHIP and the Secondary and Local Roads Project (SLRP) — in Georgia. The two
main lessons that were identified and highlighted in the PAD were (i) ensuring the
client’s ownership of the institutional components to achieve the objectives of the
institutional components; and (ii) avoiding design changes and variations in complex
construction projects through using a phased approach — with each phase to be
supported by an interactive process in designing alignment alternatives, assessing
technical, environmental and social impacts, and cross-validating design results with
engineering firms and other experts. While these two lessons were rightly identified, the
second lesson was followed only to the extent possible. A phased approach was indeed
undertaken — however, the preparation phase of the design of the civil works that took
place after the Board approval of the Project lacked an interactive process between the
major design firm, its local sub-contractor, the RD, the Ministry of Economic
Development (MOED) and the World Bank (WB).

2.1.2 Assessment of the Project design. The Project design was simple in terms of
components, geographic dispersion, novelty, involved organizations, and safeguard policies
involved. There were an adequate number of components (three), which were not burdened
by complex contents. Geographically, the Project was not spread across the country,
because the civil works were limited to the same highway where the Bank was financing
the then on-going FEWHIP and where the Bank subsequently started the preparation of the
TEWHIP. The Project supported a couple of innovative technologies for slope stabilizing
and greening, which enabled exposure of the RD to new environmental management
practices in road projects, and built the necessary capacity in the country during the Project
implementation period. The extent of the applicable Bank safeguard policies was similar to
the ones contained in the predecessor FEWHIP. The implementing agency had an adequate
capacity and relevant experience to manage them.

2.1.3 The financial arrangements were simple — there were no co-financiers or other
development partners involved in the Project. The project design took into consideration
the spread of the IDA allocation for transport in the Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY06-
09 over two different IDA replenishment periods, which made it impossible to process
the SEWHIP in one single credit. To meet the Government's requirement to start the
tenders in 2007 and sign the main contracts in early 2008, the Project (then estimated at
US$80 million) was designed as a single operation, with the IDA’s share of US$35
million and GOG’s share of US$25 million under the original SEWHIP and the
remaining IDA’s share of US$20 million under the AF.

2.1.4 The same implementation arrangements were suggested for the SEWHIP as had
been used by its predecessor the FEWHIP: the RD would be in charge of the overall
Project implementation and the TRRC would provide support to the RD in procurement,
accounting, disbursement, financial reporting, auditing arrangements, Project M&E, and
coordination with the WB and other financiers. That was a cost-effective and logical
approach, because both the RD and the TRRC were familiar with WB policies and
processes as a result of the implementation of the FEWHIP and the SLRP, and they were
expected to continue benefiting from further capacity building under the SEWHIP.



                                              6
2.1.5 The PDO — while justifying the content of the Project components — might be
considered to be overly complex, because it is comprised of two sub-objectives. This was
noted during the Bank internal quality review processes by the peer reviewers who
suggested merging the two sub-objectives into one single PDO. However, the Task Team
preferred using the same definition of the PDO that the ECA Quality had suggested for the
predecessor FEWHIP. In addition, the consistency of the PDOs for the entire series of East-
West Highway Improvement Projects was higher priority for the GOG and the Bank than
the level of complexity of the PDO definition. The results framework reflects properly the
objectives and content of the Project components (see discussion in Section 2.3).

2.1.6 Adequacy of Government’s commitment. High level of GOG’s commitment to
this project was demonstrated through a fast pace of Project preparation and good
cooperation between the RD, MOED and the Bank. The Project was prepared and
delivered to the Board in less than a year. The GOG cooperated with the Bank in carrying
out all necessary public consultations for the preparation of the relevant safeguard
documents in compliance with the Bank safeguards policies. In fact, a lot of safeguard
documentation preparation and consultations took place during the preparation of the
FEWHIP. High commitment was also demonstrated in the continued availability of the
GOG’s funds to support the E60 Highway Improvement Program. In addition, the GOG’s
commitment was demonstrated by a prompt development and adopting of its first
National Traffic Safety Strategy and Action Plan prior to appraisal of the AF for the
Project, which was made within 8 months of the Board approval.

2.1.7 Assessment of risks. All risks discussed in the Risk table of the PAD were
properly identified and mitigation measures were adequately developed. However, there
were a couple of risks to which, the Bank and the client should have paid more attention
to. Those risks were briefly mentioned in the PAD or Minutes of the Bank’s internal
review processes. However, they were not elaborated on in the PAD, and no mitigation
measures were suggested. Those risks eventually affected the quality and timeliness of
Project implementation.

2.1.8 Specifically, the PAD highlighted the Government’s priority for a speedy Project
implementation at the time of Project preparation, and assigned a low-to-medium rating
to the risk of failure to implement the Project in a timely manner. Unfortunately, the Task
Team underestimated that risk and did not link it to the relevant factors such as the RD’s
inadequate institutional capacity to implement large highway projects, poor technical
designs, and poor awareness of environment and social safeguards compliance risks.
Eventually, those contributed to poor quality of works, and cost and time overruns of
Project implementation. In addition, the risk of a lack of a road safety champion in the
implementing agency was well recognized by the WB Team during the Project
preparation, because it was evident from the Minutes of the Decision Meeting that
preceded the appraisal of the Project. The Bank Team understood the challenge of finding
a champion, but this risk was neglected and it was not included in the Risk Table of the
PAD, and no activity was considered for inclusion in the Road Safety Component to




                                            7
either find a champion or build the capacity of a future road safety multi-agency
coordination body as a potential champion.

2.1.9 With respect to the achievement of the PDOs, the PAD rated the Project Overall
Risk as Substantial, and Project Residual Risk as Moderate. There was no Quality at
Entry rating by the Bank’s Quality Assurance Group for the Project.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Implementation was rated satisfactory in the Bank’s Implementation Status and
Results (ISR) reports from the start of the Project until late 2009. After late 2009, it was
rated moderately unsatisfactory, except for a moderately satisfactory status in July 2011.
There were several key factors that either negatively or positively affected Project
implementation and achievement of the Project outcomes. They are presented in the order
of the chronology and extent of their influence:

2.2.2 Political economy. Political economy played the most direct and critical part in
implementation of the Project. Due to its high visibility, the Project was under political
watch and pressure right from the start of its preparation. The PAD explicitly highlighted
“the Government’s priority for a speedy Project implementation? and even rated the risk
of failure to implement it in a timely manner as low-to-medium. Due to that political
pressure, the designs underwent quick review, procurement of the construction works
was too speedy, and some Project road sections were twice opened prematurely to all
traffic, which altogether affected the quality and timeliness of the work contracts and the
quality of the outputs.

2.2.3 Design and procurement of both road and bridge contracts took place at a very fast
pace, and without proper and thorough review of designs. The timeline set for the
preparation of the designs was 6 months, which was unrealistic and ambitious. The budget
of 1.5% of the construction cost estimate was low and insufficient for the amount of
surveys, geotechnical investigations, design development and checking required for a road
project of this scale. The road designs were included in the bidding document in January
2008 — within a month after submission — without proper review by the RD. The road
contract was signed in May 2008: 45 days given for the bid submission, while permitted
under WB rules, was insufficient for the bidders to carry out site surveys and prepare
informed bids for a contract of this size. Procurement of the bridge works was also carried
out quickly; tenders were called in early 2009, and the contract was signed in April 2009.

2.2.4 The Project road sections were twice prematurely open for traffic in public
ceremonies at the request of the GOG — once in January 2009 and a second time in
November 2009. The January 2009 opening resulted in premature failure of the pavement,
which had not been recovered by November 2009. The November 2009 opening
coincided with the opening of several Project road sections to all traffic for more than 72
hours, in spite of strong warnings by the Bank not to do so. Several sections were not
given adequate drying/curing time for the concrete pavement and the bridge slabs, and
this caused some problems with the pavement that needed to be repaired later.



                                             8
2.2.5 When the Project was extended, it took the GOG about 4 months to finally close
some sections that needed to be closed in order for the second road contractor to
complete the remedial measures and remaining works. But instead of finalizing these
works, this contractor was assigned by the GOG to work in priority on other road
construction projects that were also critical for the GOG in anticipation of the upcoming
election in October 2012.

2.2.6 Force major event and weather conditions. The conflict with Russia in August
2008 interrupted construction and cut off some sources of materials. The contractor was
not able to access the site for more than one week. Earlier and harsh winter condition
prevented the second road contractor from executing all remedial works and completing
the remaining works — including those required by the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) — by the December 2011 deadline. These factors contributed to necessitating the
4-month Project extension from February 29 to June 30, 2012.

2.2.7 Poor quality of technical designs. By 2009, variation orders had been issued for
over 12% of the contract value, even though only about 40% of the work was done. Poor
quality of the technical designs and significant differences of the actual construction
quantities from the design estimates were the main reasons for the cost overruns. The
design consultant — which was a joint venture of a foreign company and a local company
— failed to prepare the designs to international standards. Most of the work was done by
the local company. The foreign company spent very little time in Georgia carrying out
surveys and field investigations, and prepared the design in its home country. The designs
had a number of errors — in particular, with regard the vertical alignment. The
underpasses were incorrectly designed (often too high); the design failed to account for the
need to relocate an irrigation channel and high voltage power lines near Igoeti village;
detailed drawings of parallel and access roads were missing; the design failed to correctly
present the use of fill material. Throughout 2008, the RD requested clarifications and
corrections from the design consultant, but no satisfactory revisions were provided. The
formal review of the designs was not submitted by the supervision consultant until
September 2009.The underpasses had to be re-done; additional designs had to be prepared
for parallel and access roads during the construction phase; and variation orders needed to
be issued to address the identified deviations for the use of fill material.

2.2.8 Inadequate performance of the supervision consultant. The performance of the
supervision consultant was also poor at the start of the construction works, due to
insufficient staffing and to a failing resident engineer, who was eventually replaced by the
company after the RD strongly insisted on it. The supervision consultant failed: (i) to
undertake a timely review of the designs and specifications; (ii) to advise the RD of
actions to be taken; (iii) to submit regular monthly and quarterly progress reports; (iv) to
ensure proper site supervision, including attendance at all times during paving and regular
walk-over inspections, enforcement of the EMP and RAP, proper redesigning of problem
areas and establishment of an effective quality assurance system to check the contractor’s
work, etc. A number of problems with construction works and performance of contractors
were not timely noticed and brought to the attention of the RD and WB, due to a lack of
review of designs at the start of the assignment, a lack of regular reporting and opaque



                                             9
management of testing results by the consultant. The consultant’s poor performance
caused the RD to get directly involved in the supervision of the works, i.e. performing
most of the consultant’s functions. The supervision consultant reviewed the design only
after the continued pressure by the WB Team but by then it was too late to have a major
impact. By mid-2010, the consultant’s team was replaced and strengthened with additional
staff and budget that were needed to manage the contract; there was improved regular
monitoring of the EA and the EMP and regular reporting; and the consultant assisted the
RD in defining the terms and conditions of settlement with the poorly performing first
road contractor. The consultant was also willing to acknowledge its own earlier failures.
From mid-2010 onwards, the consultant’s performance was satisfactory.

2.2.9 Poor performance of the first road contractor. While the physical progress of the
contract execution was good, the quality of the works was unsatisfactory in many instances,
requiring completed works to be repaired or replaced. The contractor was aware of errors in
the design, but took advantage of the situation instead of informing the RD and supervision
consultant. The contractor preferred to build something according to the wrong design and
then redo it, because the contractor got another payment along with the variation orders.
Despite frequent requests by the RD and the Bank Team, the contractor failed to fully
comply with contract provisions relating to construction method statements, quality control
plans, reporting of test results, requirements of the EMP — especially in the storage and
disposal of materials. One of the local employees — while performing a pavement test —
was killed by a speeding car whose driver ignored a road construction warning sign. The
contractor refused to pay compensation to the victim’s family for about 1.5 years, despite
constant reminders by the Bank Team and the RD. The contractor also started civil works
without the official completion of land acquisition from an Igoeti resident, and wound up
causing damage to this person’s house and making improper use of her land. The mid-term
review of the Project laid out an action plan, and the communication between the contractor,
employer and supervision consultant seemed to improve. Nevertheless, the contractor still
failed to carry out remedial works, comply fully with the EMP or improve its overall
performance. Eventually the RD allowed the contract to naturally expire and laid out a set
of terms and conditions at the settlement of the contract closure. Another contractor was
subsequently — in June 2011 — hired to complete the remaining works and carry out
remedial works, including rectifying environmental damages.

2.2.10 Insufficient capacity of the RD. The GOG has been implementing a massive road
construction and rehabilitation program country-wide. All new construction and
rehabilitation projects have been handled by the same Deputy Chairman and his team in
the RD for the national roads and highways— and at the end of the project, that team also
handled secondary and local roads. At one point, this team was in charge of six on-going
and one new WB supported projects, and several projects funded by other donors and the
GOG. While this team has been strengthened over time in environmental and social
safeguards, road safety, M&E, and procurement capacities it has had occasional turnover
and has overall been thinly stretched.

2.2.11 Pro-activeness and risk-taking readiness of the RD in a time of crisis. Due to
some concerns over Project implementation, the RD was proactive in requesting that the



                                            10
WB carry out an earlier than planned mid-term review. The early mid-term 6 review
allowed the RD and the WB to identify root problems in a timely manner and
immediately find adequate solutions, which prevented further exacerbation of Project
implementation issues and possible substantial delays in the completion of civil works
contracts. The key issues identified by the mid-term review included poor construction
quality, cost changes and overruns, and inadequate project management. The solutions
proposed during the mid-term review were: (i) strengthening of construction supervision
by the supervision consultant; (ii) re-organization of the contractor in contract execution;
(iii) change of the RD’s approach toward managing its heavy project pipeline; (iv)
enhancing the WB supervision mission; and (v) re-designing the second carriageway. The
willingness of the RD to take risks helped it overcome the failure of the first road
contractor and minimize further cost overruns of the construction works on the Project
segment. Despite the fact that the first road contractor deserved termination of the
contract, the RD kept giving it the chance to remedy the problems and complete the
contract as per the contract date. However, after the natural expiration of the contract on
June 30, 2011, the RD was very firm in setting a long list of terms and conditions to this
contractor — without giving a contract extension opportunity because of its poor
performance — and the RD subsequently recruited another contractor to fix the problems
and complete the remaining works .

2.2.12 Professionalism and commitment of the Resettlement Unit of the RD. When the
cases of the Igoeti resident and others emerged, the RD was losing its credibility with the
WB. However, thanks to a high level of professionalism and commitment on the part of
the Resettlement Unit, the RD managed to regain credibility and trust with the WB by
addressing and successfully resolving those issues. The Unit worked hard to resolve each
case, especially the one involving the Igoeti resident, who used several lawyers for a
series of complaints. In the end, the Unit succeeded in all cases, and its estimates of the
compensations were found acceptable. The Resettlement Unit was always thorough in
bringing to the WB’s attention the emerging issues, and ensuring that those issues were
raised in the WB’s AMs. In this way, the Resettlement Unit was confident that the issues
that required the involvement of the RD’s top management would receive the attention
they required.

2.2.13 Frequent change of the WB TTLs. The Project experienced a frequent change of
the WB TTLs – there were a total of 5 TTLs, one of whom was the fourth and the sixth
(and final) TTL. In some cases, there were poor transition arrangements made that
affected the decision-making process in Project implementation. In other cases, new
TTLs brought additional value through analyzing emerging issues and developing new
solutions to address them.

2.2.14 WB’s insistence on the importance of adhering and developing full compliance
with safeguards policies. The GOG’s awareness of environmental safeguards was weak.
Thus, implementation of the EMPs was limping along with the contractors who were
either ignoring compliance with safeguards or addressing them at a much later stage. The


6
    It was carried out 7 months earlier (in May 2009) than originally planned (in December 2009)


                                                      11
RD has experienced staff in charge of environmental safeguards monitoring. However,
the first road contractor and bridge contractor did not find that staff very much
empowered and kept ignoring the requests of that environmental specialist. It is only the
persistence of the RD’s Deputy Chairman, the Bank team, and the Bank CD for the South
Caucasus that helped improve implementation of the EMPs. The CD took the
environmental concerns — together with social concerns — to the MOF whose direct
involvement finally helped ensure that most of those issues were addressed.

2.2.15 Mid-term Review. The mid-term review played a crucial role in turning the course
of Project implementation for the better. At request of the RD, it was undertaken 7 months
earlier than originally planned — this helped make it possible to identify and address
issues in a timely fashion, and to improve Project implementation. While at the appraisal
stage, the major focus of the mid-term review was anticipated to be on the road safety
activities. However, the eventual focus was adjusted to rightly serve the purpose of a mid-
term review tool of addressing the emerging problems in Project implementation, i.e.,
poor quality of civil works. The recommendations were taken on board by both the Bank
and the RD which helped prevent substantial cost overruns and extension of the Project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 The Results Framework of the PAD consisted of a list of outcome indicators and
intermediate results for monitoring progress and outcomes. The design included specific
indicators for each component, and covered physical as well as institutional results. There
was an indicator regarding “a high-level multi-agency coordination body operating? to
support implementation of the National Traffic Safety Strategy and coordinate road
safety work between road safety public entities. However, the project design did not
include any activity to support this body. The indicators were simple to collect.
Nevertheless, there was no reporting on indicators in the WB Aide-Memoires (AM),
except for the last implementation supervision mission AM, and the ISRs reported on a
limited number of indicators. In 2009, four Core Sector Indicators were introduced for
monitoring as per the Bank management requirements into the ISRs. The Results
Framework was updated under the AF in 2008. The AF provided the target values, which
had not been originally set at appraisal for three Intermediate Outcome Indicators related
to the Road Safety Component, pending the adoption of the National Traffic Safety
Strategy by the Government.

2.3.2 M&E was initially carried out by the TRRC. From the mid-way of Project
implementation on, it was carried out by the M&E Unit of the RD, with the assistance
and guidance of the TRRC, and close supervision by the MOED and later the Ministry of
Regional Development and Infrastructure (MRDI) 7 . Quarterly and annual reports on
implementation progress and monitoring indicators were submitted to the WB. Most of
the same indicators are or will be used by the RD in the monitoring of the on-going
TEWHIP and the EWHIP-4, which is under preparation. The outcome indicators of


7
 During the ministerial reforms in 2009, a new Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure
(MRDI) was established and the RD was moved from the MOED to the MRDI.


                                                  12
reduction in transit time, reduction in vehicle operating costs along Bank-funded road
segments, and the number of fatalities per 10,000 cars are also used to monitor progress
towards achievement of the CPS’s Strategic Objective 2: Strengthening Competitiveness
for Post-Crisis growth. The RD found the road safety indicator “number of fatalities per
10,000 cars? to be very useful, because it helped the RD determine whether it was doing
enough to improve road safety.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Environmental safeguards. This was an Environmental Category A Project,
because of the construction of a new 2-lane carriageway along the rehabilitation of the
existing 2-lane carriageway. An Environmental Review of baseline information and key
environmental sensitivities, and an analysis of alternatives, was carried out for both the
FEWHIP and the SEWHIP to assist in planning and scheduling. All environmental
safeguards documentation was prepared, consulted upon and disclosed in compliance with
environmental regulations, policies and procedures of the GOG and the Bank. No significant
environmental receptors were identified. The most sensitive area was determined at Igoeti
where the construction of new bypasses and bridges was planned and the presence of
archaeological sites, erosion and land stability issues, and natural (terrestrial and aquatic)
habitats was envisaged. A Specific EA and EMP were prepared in compliance with
Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01, Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04, Pest Management
OP 4.09, Physical Cultural Resources OP/BP 4.11, and Forests OP/BP 4.37 to mitigate and
manage direct and indirect impacts of the construction. The EA and EMP were disclosed in
Georgia on September 14, 2007, and through the InfoShop on September 19, 2007.

2.4.2 The RD’s Division of the Project Analysis, New Technologies, and
Environmental protection under the Office of Technical Policy was put in charge of (i)
managing the review of the EAs and EMPs for all RD projects; (ii) monitoring the
compliance of construction works and associated contractors with approved EAs, EMPs,
environmental standards and other environmental commitments — including associated
consultation and disclosure, liaisons with relevant ministries and agencies; and (iii)
supervision of the practical implementation of EMPs. A new environmental specialist had
been hired prior to the start of the Project. The RD was developing the environmental
capacity of its other three staff through the FEWHIP-funded TA, which provided on-the-
job training and capacity-building in environmental and social safeguards management.
During most of the Project implementation, there was mainly one young person with
insufficient experience who was handling all environmental safeguards related to this and
other WB-funded projects.

2.4.3 There were several serious environmental issues — in particular, with the first
road contract. The first contractor failed to consistently comply with the requirements of
the EMP. The transgressions included: illegal and/or improper dumping of waste
materials, delayed rehabilitation of the two large borrow areas adjacent to the road, poor
handling of the borrow pits, substantially delayed or improper tree planting, and disposal
of concrete waste on the river bank. Because there was no financial penalty for non-
compliance with the EMP, the contractor felt no obligation to properly implement it. The
authority of the RD’s young environmental specialist was not recognized by the


                                             13
contractors. It was only the interventions of the RD’s Deputy Chairman and the Bank CD
for the South Caucasus through the MOF that caused the first road contractor implement
some of environmental mitigation measures.

2.4.4 Ultimately, full compliance with the EMP was only achieved when the contractor
was replaced by another one who fixed the above mentioned environmental problems
caused by its predecessor. The mountain slope at the km 58 borrow site was properly
terraced, and risks of severe erosion and landslides were considerably decreased. Topsoil
was spread over the upper terraces and trees were planted. The entire compensatory tree
planting program was carried out, a verification survey undertaken, and compliance with
the planting contract documented by the RD. Due to late completion of terracing,
planting was carried out only on the top terraces. Illegal dumping was cleared on the hill
at km 59, and the site was compacted and landscaped with natural regeneration underway.
Borrow areas at km 78 and 79 were also terraced and landscaped. The Project restored
irrigation and portable water supply pipes that were damaged by the landslide on the
eroded slope near Igoeti village. In addition, the Project piloted hydro-seeding on over
two hectares of bare steep slopes to the right side of the highway.

2.4.5 Social safeguards. The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and the
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) were developed in compliance with the Georgian
legislation and the WB Social Safeguards Policy OP 4.12. The RFP was prepared in 2006
as part of the FEWHIP preparation, and covered the FEWHIP and SEWHIP road
segments. Public consultations were also carried out during the preparation of the
FEWHIP. The RAP for the SEWHIP road segment was prepared, in consultation with the
public, and disclosed through the InfoShop on April 1, 2008.

2.4.6 It was anticipated that the SEWHIP would acquire about 9 ha of land, of which 7
ha belonged to about 95 private owners. No physical relocation was expected, although
some parts of residential plots were expected to be acquired, and a handful of kiosks and
other commercial entities to be demolished. The original RAP envisioned 167 land plots
(91,968 m²) to be affected by the improvement works on the Igoeti-Sveneti section.
However, the actual number of land plots that were affected by the Project and located
within the right-of-way of the main alignment was 192 (146,914 m²). This difference was
mainly due to data inconsistency for the right-of-way assessment and poor coordination
between GIS-based cadastral data in the original RAP and the GIS data used in the
preliminary technical design. This resulted in significant adjustments that had to be made
based on field surveys during demarcation. The RD had to revise the actual scale and
scope of the Project impact based on the findings of the in-site survey for each and every
affected household and business entity. The signed Demarcation Acts and the
documentary evidence were verified to confirm that compensation paid to affected
entities was in compliance with OP 4.12. The construction of the connecting roads
(secondary roads) as part of the major road construction contract to ensure easy and safe
connectivity of neighboring villages to the rehabilitated and newly-constructed SEWHIP
highway segments also required the acquisition of about 4 ha of the private land. A new
compensation plan was prepared and attached as an Appendix to the existing RAP which
was re-disclosed in the country in 2008.



                                           14
2.4.7 Following the World Bank’s advice, the RD’s Resettlement Unit hired a local
consultant to aid its 4 staff members in identifying all land plots that were not anticipated
in the original RAP and that were located within the additional right-of-way. The RD’s
Chairman and Deputy Chairman were directly involved in resolving all resettlement
cases. This helped the Resettlement Unit to more effectively handle and resolve each case
in a satisfactory way. The land acquisition and resettlement process was completed and
all outstanding cases were resolved to satisfaction of the Project-affected people by the
end of the Project.

2.4.8 All compensations were fully paid to the Project-affected people by the end of the
project. The total amount of compensation was GEL 1,343,773 (about US$ 0.81 million
equivalent). The case of the Igoeti village resident that had been outstanding since 2009
was settled successfully. The resident signed an agreement with the RD on June 25, 2012,
accepting the payment of GEL 11,139 (about US$ 6,700) as compensation for the
acquisition of 954m² of land and 62 fruit trees. The payment was effective on July 9, 2012.
This latest payment was in addition to the February 2011 payment of GEL 45,000 (about
US$ 27,270) for the damage inflicted to the resident’s summer house during the highway
construction. The RD presented all the necessary documentation to the Bank in evidence
and the Bank reviewed and verified a successful closure of this long pending case.

2.4.9 While the capacity of the RD in resettlement planning was built during the
implementation of the FEWHIP, the SEWHIP made a more significant contribution to
strengthening the technical expertise of the RD’s Resettlement Unit.

2.4.10 The Project also produced the unintended benefit of discovering an archaeological
find which was handled in an exemplary fashion (see Section 3.5 (c)).

2.4.11 Procurement. The procurement of works, goods and consulting services was
carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The road and bridge works contracts
were procured through international competitive bidding. Procurement took place very
fast after the submission of the designs in both road and bridge works instances — and
this had an implication, especially on the quality of the road contract execution. The first
road contract was signed within 10 weeks of bid opening, which — while within the
Bank requirements — was too fast. The bridge contract was awarded within 30 days
(four weeks), but there were significantly fewer problems with its execution than with the
execution of the first road contract. After dealing with all kinds of problems related to the
latter contract, the RD allowed it to expire naturally and re-tendered the contract to
complete the remaining works and remedy all problems (see more in section 2.2).

2.4.12 Financial Management. There were no major issues in financial management
(FM). The FM was handled by the TRRC of the RD. The interim financial reports
submitted to and reviewed by the Bank during implementation were found satisfactory, in
a format acceptable to the Bank, and with minor or no issues identified. Annual audit
reports were received on time and the auditor’s opinion was unqualified.




                                             15
2.4.13 The total amount of the two IDA credits (IDA-43730 and IDA-45120) was
US$ 55 million (SDR 35.2 million). As of December 20, 2012, US$ 54.04 million (SDR
34.72 million) was disbursed. The IDA-43730 Credit in the amount of US$ 34.87 (SDR
22.4 million) has been fully disbursed. On December 20, 2012, US$ 0.74million (SDR
0.48 million) was cancelled from US$ 19.74 million (SDR 12.8 million) of IDA-45120
Credit, which was closed as of the same date

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The newly-constructed and rehabilitated SEWHIP road segment has been
contracted out for routine maintenance, like all other improved roads in Georgia. In 2011,
at the Government’s request, the WB carried out a study that identified four options to
ensure funding sustainability of maintenance and development of the road network.

2.5.2 The WB is currently preparing a new Fourth EWHIP (EWHIP-4) that will: (i)
continue supporting the GOG’s program to improve the capacity of the E60; (ii) help the
RD and the MRDI assess their HR development, systems and procedures in place and
support the implementation of some short-term measures to increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of both institutions; (iii) continue improving road safety through developing and
implementing a new Traffic Safety Strategy, strengthening the institutional capacity and
carrying out road safety engineering measures; and (iv) assessing and building the
capacity of Georgia’s construction industry in many areas. At request of the RD
management, the Bank is currently initiating diagnostic reviews of (i) Road Safety
Capacity — covering all road safety stakeholder agencies (not only the RD and the
Transport Commission) — with the support of the Global Road Safety Facility, and (ii)
Georgia’s Construction Industry Capacity to inform the design of the institutional
development components under the EWHIP-4. In addition, the WB is in discussion with
the ADB, and intends to engage other present donors to coordinate efforts in the above
areas. While some capacity has been built for application of hydroseeding and terracing in
the country, the RD is encouraged to continue these practices in the upcoming WB-funded
highway projects for which the Bank will provide due implementation support and advice.

2.5.3 The new government that was elected on October 1, 2012 seems to recognize the
importance of sustainability of investments and newly-created road assets and it
especially emphasizes effectiveness of the sector institutions. It has expressed a strong
interest in the EWHIP-4 to take care of these two sector priorities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The PDOs, design and implementation of the project remain relevant to the
Strategic “10-Point Plan? of the Government of Georgia for Modernization and
Employment, 2011-2015, and the Bank and the IFC’s CPS for Georgia for FY10-FY13.
The PDOs are closely aligned with the following objective of the Strategic 10-Point Plan:
“Improvement of Infrastructure? Point (Pillar) of the Strategy, that places an emphasis on
“developed, high quality and safe road infrastructure [….] to support the inner turnover


                                            16
of goods, import-export and transit, as well as for the better accessibility to the resorts
and the regions, that will ultimately result in the creation of more jobs, and better
industrial and living environment.? The PDOs are also aligned with the following
objective of the CPS: “to support critical infrastructure improvement in order to spur
foreign and domestic investment? through “investment […] in the roads sector which is
essential for boosting the country’s potential as a transit country as well as to provide
better connectivity between rural areas and market opportunities.?

3.1.2 The design of the Project was also found relevant because the Project components
were consistent with the PDOs. The physical component sought to contribute to the
achievement of the first part of the PDOs, while the road safety component was designed
to contribute to the second part. Implementation arrangements were appropriately chosen
to facilitate effective implementation of the components. The choice of a lending
instrument – a Specific Investment Loan — was appropriate to support investment in the
roads sector and implementation of road safety activities. The PDOs, design and
implementation of the Project remain important and relevant to the global priorities of
improved road safety and prevention of road traffic deaths which are reflected in the UN
Decade of Action for Road Safety, 2011-2020 and Georgia’s current National Traffic
Safety Strategy.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The achievement of the PDOs is rated as moderately satisfactory, because the
first sub-objective was fully achieved, while the second sub-objective was partially
achieved (see discussion below). The rating takes into account achievement of the key
outcome targets set at appraisal and associated with each of these two sub-objectives:

(i) To contribute to the gradual reduction of road transport costs and improve ease of
transit, and safety along the central part of Georgia's East-West corridor, through
upgrading a segment of the East-West Highway from Tbilisi to Rikoti (fully achieved).
This was achieved through reduction in vehicle operating costs for cars and trucks,
reduction in transit time, and improvement in road safety on the SEWHIP section.
Upgrading from a 2-lane road to a 4-lane motorway on this road segment led to a
reduction in transit time from 19 minutes to 11.8 minutes (against the target of 12
minutes) on the Igoeti-Sveneti section, and a reduction of vehicle operating costs from
US$0.20 to US$0.18 per km for cars and from US$0.76 to US$0.71 (against the target of
US$0.72) per km for trucks. 24 blackspots (up from the planned 20) were removed along
the E60. Implementation of such engineering safety measures contributed to overall
improvement in road safety from Tbilisi to Rikoti, including the Igoeti-Sveneti segment.
Those safety measures included: (i) the installation of New Jersey barriers and guardrails;
(ii) the relocation of bus stops from busy E60 sections to safer areas; (iii) the construction
of highway accesses; and (iv) the provision of traffic marking and signs There is no
segregated road accidents data for the Tbilisi-Rikoti segment of the E60, and thus, it is
statistically difficult to confirm improved safety on this segment. However, the country-
wide statistics show a substantial decline in road accidents, injury rates and fatality rates
over the period of Project implementation during 2008-2012 (see the chart below; the
data for 2012 is expected to be available in early 2013). The RD has mainstreamed this


                                             17
approach of incorporating similar road safety engineering measures on all road
construction and rehabilitation projects. Because this has been one of the major
contributing factors (in addition to enforcement of seatbelts usage, etc.) to improved road
safety country-wide, it can be deduced that implementation of these road safety
engineering measures contributed to improved safety from Tbilisi to Rikoti.

          Number of registered vehicles and rates of accidents, injured and
    180.0       killed people per 10,000 vehicles during 2004-2011            900,000
                                                                      775,522
    160.0                                                                     800,000
                                                            713,085
    140.0                                           661,048                   700,000
                                           613,116
    120.0                                                                                                             600,000
                                                508,041
    100.0                             415,291                                                                         500,000

     80.0               359,142                                                                                       400,000


                                                                 147.8
            319,461
                                                  144.7




                                                                               125.9
                                      114.3




     60.0                                                                                                             300,000
                             107.8




                                                                                                 106.0
                127.4




                                     170.6
                            154.4




                                                               98.1
                                                97.4
               91.9




                                                                                                              85.59
                                                                             82.9
     40.0                                                                                                             200,000




                                                                                              71.5
            19.9




                                                                                                          57.84
                                         16.3
                        16.2




                                                       14.5


                                                                      14.1


                                                                                    11.2




                                                                                                         6.78
                                                                                           9.6
     20.0                                                                                                             100,000

      0.0                                                                                                             0
             2004        2005         2006       2007           2008          2009           2010          2011
               accidents                injured                dead                 registered vehicles

(ii) To strengthen the capacity of the government agencies (and particularly RDMED) to
develop and implement a traffic safety program (partially achieved). This objective can
be considered only partially achieved because the capacity of the RD to develop and
implement a traffic safety program was found substantially improved, but the capacity
strengthening of other government agencies — including the Transport Commission that
was assigned the role of a road safety multi-agency coordination body — was not
supported at all through the Project. This objective was achieved through re-enforcing the
Road Safety Unit of the RD with additional 3 staff members and building the capacity of
the Road Safety Unit’s staff through (i) trainings of developing sets of skills to effectively
analyze hazardous locations, design and oversee implementation of safety improvements;
(ii) translation into Georgian of several roads safety handbooks that are considered good
practice in Western European countries and that were found to be of particular use by the
Road Safety Unit; and (iii) development of Road Safety Audit Guidelines (Guidelines for
Safety Audits of Existing Roads, Guidelines for Safety Audits for New Road Designs,
Guidelines for Traffic Management at Road Works and Temporary Diversions, and
Guidelines for Road Traffic Signs and Markings). The strengthened capacity of this Unit
is demonstrated in carrying out jointly with Traffic Police annual blackspot inspections
(identification and analysis) of all roads under the RD’s jurisdiction and mainstreaming
road safety audits in all road construction or rehabilitation projects.



                                                          18
3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 Efficiency in achieving the PDOs in terms of the Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR) is rated as Moderately Satisfactory because the ex-post EIRR (13%) is
lower than the one estimated at appraisal (14.5%) and marginally above the acceptable
EIRR level of 12% (Table 1).

3.3.2 The ex-post cost-benefit analysis followed the same model, methodology and
assumptions applied at appraisal, with the following changes: (i) actual annual traffic
growth rate of 6.2% from 2007 to 2011, followed by 6.0% after 2011; (ii) actual project
costs (see Table 4 in Annex 3); (iii) actual construction duration; (iv) actual distribution of
project costs over time on (see Table 5 in Annex 3); and (v) actual roughness reduction
with the Project. The road roughness was reduced from 3.8 to 2.014 IRI, m/km on the
Igoeti-Sveneti section and from 4.8 to 2.19 IRI, m/km on the Igoeti Bypass.

3.3.3 The ex-post economic evaluation resulted in a marginal overall EIRR of 13%,
compared to an ex-ante overall EIRR of 14.5%. The higher costs of the upgrading of the
Igoeti-Sveneti section reduced the EIRR of that component from 15.3% to 12.5%. The
EIRR of the construction of the Igoeti Bypass increased from 13.3 to 14.5% because the
lower construction costs were compensated by the longer construction period. The EIRR
of the rehabilitation of the Igoeti local road increased marginally from 12.9 to 13.0%, due
to the higher observed traffic growth rate. Detailed analysis is provided in Annex 3.

                       Table 1. Economic Internal Rate of Return, %

                                              PAD               Actual
                                          Ex-Ante EIRR       Ex-Post EIRR
                 Igoeti-Sveneti
                 Section                       15.3%             12.5%
                 Igoeti Bypass                 13.3%             14.5%
                 Igoeti Local Road             12.9%             13.0%
                 Overall                       14.5%              13%

3.3.4 The efficiency of the Project was negatively affected by the time and cost
overruns: the Project closed 4 months later than originally planned, and the civil works
component cost 34% higher than estimated. Given the economic slowdown and the
conflict with Russian in 2008, the cost overrun was not that bad. In addition, efficiency
was positively affected by significant achievements in strengthening the Road Safety
Unit’s capacity and spreading the effects of these achievements beyond the project’s
boundary.




                                              19
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.4.1 The overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory, because of relevance of the
PDOs, Project design and implementation to the Bank’s current CPS, national and global
priorities, the moderately satisfactory achievement of the PDOs, and the moderately
satisfactory efficiency of the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 There was no special attempt to collect relevant data under the Project, but it is
believed that the improved condition of this road segment had a positive impact on
residents living along this road, road users, road venders, and school children in the
following respects: (i) better road quality; (ii) reduced traffic congestion time; (iii) better
road safety, through new alignments and city bypasses that avoid hazardous crossing of
urban areas by heavy transit traffic; (iv) safer locations for bus stops, rest stops and
vending/market places; and (v) savings derived from shorter travel times. The Project
also contributed to economic development by reducing transportation costs and opening
economic opportunities for communities living along this road through better linking
them to Tbilisi, a center for employment and an outlet for agricultural products and
commercial goods.

3.5.2 The residents of the Igoeti village also benefited from restoration and
repositioning of the irrigation and portable water supply pipes that were damaged by the
landslide on the eroded slope near the village. The new alignment of the pipes was placed
in such a way that the risk of damage would be minimized in future.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.3 The major institutional impacts on the RD are in the areas of M&E, procurement,
road safety engineering improvement, and social safeguards management. The
responsibilities for M&E and procurement were transferred from the TRRC to the RD,
which allowed streamlining of more project implementation into RD processes. When the
transfer was initially made, the RD was overstretched and had many limitations. However,
as the Project was implemented, the RD became stronger. In fact, the RD surprised the
Bank team with strengths in the project management area that made a significant difference.

3.5.4 The SEWHIP made a substantial impact on strengthening the capacity of the RD’s
Road Safety Unit through trainings and development of guidelines (see details in Section
3.2 and Annex 2). This led to mainstreaming the practices of carrying out annual blackspot
analyses together with Traffic Police on the existing roads, and carrying out road safety
audits on all new construction and rehabilitation projects. Dealing with serious social
safeguards issues has also substantially strengthened the capacity of the RD not only
through adding more staff to the Resettlement Unit but also through giving on-the-hands
experience in handling challenging land acquisition cases. When this ICR was being


                                              20
finalized, the RD informed the Bank about its new upcoming institutional reform intended
to increase the effectiveness of safeguards management and implementation. The
Resettlement Unit and Environmental Unit will be separated from their parent Divisions
and will be merged into the Environmental and Resettlement Division next year.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.5 A major Bronze Age archaeological site was found near Igoeti. The RD handling
of the archaeological finds was exemplary, and in compliance with the national
legislation. As a result of this experience, the RD has developed a well-defined process of
handling archaeological sites and has applied it under the on-going TEWHIP where
another archaeological site of a larger scale was found.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1   This is a core ICR, and a beneficiary survey is not required.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

4.1     The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is
substantial. On the one hand, the sustainability of road investments, and the effectiveness
of sector institutions and road safety improvement activities are most likely to continue
receiving attention and support from the new government and from the World Bank
under the new project (EWHIP-4). Provision of routine maintenance of the newly-
constructed and rehabilitated road segment under this project was recognized and
arranged by the GOG.

4.2     On the other hand, the benefits associated with the first sub-objective — which
was fully achieved at the time of Project closing — may be jeopardized faster than they
would have been if the road works had been done well right from the beginning.
Moreover, the repair works (e.g., fixing of cracks) and road safety measures (e.g.,
installation of New Jersey Barriers on the westbound median, see Annex 2) were not
fully implemented under the second road contract by the end of the contract date, because
the contractor went bankrupt. Due to the current winter conditions and need for re-
bidding, the implementation of these repair works and road safety measures has to be
postponed until spring 2013. Thus, the condition of this SEWHIP road segment will
continue to deteriorate, and there is a risk that the remaining repair and road safety works
may be postponed due to new priorities in the sector by the Borrower. Overall, the life of
the Project road segment may be shorter because multiple repairs necessitated by the poor
quality of works by the first road contractor had to be done and yet to be done to this
segment. The IRIs on the Project sections (see Section 3.3) are already a bit high for
newly-rehabilitated and constructed roads. In addition, Georgia’s shrinking fiscal space
and another possible economic and financial crisis in Europe anticipated by the IMF may
also affect the GOG’s priorities in the road sector.




                                             21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank performance in ensuring the quality at entry is rated moderately
satisfactory (MS). On the one hand, the Bank Team prepared a project with a simple
design that supported the GOG’s priorities and met all WB minimum requirements
despite a quick Project preparation. However, the Bank — with its knowledge and
experience — was in a position to inform the Government of the future risks associated
with speedy Project preparation and implementation. It should have better advised the
GOG on a reasonable timetable for the overall Project, as well as sufficient budgets for
the designs, supervision consultant and civil works component. The Bank Team should
have also included support to a multi-agency road safety coordination body, because the
operation of this body was one of the indicators.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.2 At the start of Project implementation, monitoring of pre-construction activities
and the early stages of construction was not effectively done by the Bank. The most
critical step was probably in January 2008 when a flawed design was tendered out
without sufficient time given for a thorough review. The Bank was in a position to insist
that the RD ensure proper reviews during the detailed design and prior to the invitation
for bids, and to delay procurement until the design was properly checked. Neither of the
WB Aide Memoires or ISRs in the first half of 2008 indicated any risks associated with
too quick tendering of designs without proper reviews. Two recommendations related to
the road safety component of the mid-term review were not taken on board by the Bank
Team: (i) creation of a road safety secretariat to support the Transportation Commission
in drafting a coordinated action plan and monitoring progress; and (ii) designation of
senior individuals in key ministries to be responsible for their department’s contributions
to the Road Safety Action Plan, and be held accountable for achievement of targets.
Possible reasons included that there were no funds allocated for these activities from the
start and the Bank did not identify a Road Safety Champion — as had been advised
previously in the Decision Meeting — to promote either of these activities.

5.1.3 On the positive side, the Bank Team became very proactive when problems with
the road construction works started. The Bank responded to the RD’s request to carry out
a mid-term review in May 2009 – seven months earlier than planned – which allowed the
RD and the supervision consultant to take constructive actions to improve Project and
quality management. After the mid-term review, the WB strengthened technical
supervision of the Project through more frequent and intensive missions (sometimes one
every other month), and through monitoring the Project via monthly—rather than
quarterly — progress reports. The Bank Team filed a case with the Bank’s Integrity Vice


                                                   22
Presidency (INT) that called for the investigation of alleged collusion. INT eventually
dismissed the case because no information related to a sanctionable practice could be
found. As the number of projects and additional financings supported by the Bank has
increased since 2009, the WB Team has been able to afford more frequent travels. The
Bank Team was very cooperative with and helpful to the RD in determining the terms
and conditions for settlement of the expired contract with the original road contractor.
Regarding the fatal accident on the Project section, the Bank Team was persistent in
following up with the RD for a year and half to ensure that compensation was paid to the
family of a contractor’s local employee who was killed by a speeding car. Both the Bank
Project Team and the Management Team remained persistent in ensuring compliance of
the road contracts with social and environmental safeguards. After the end of the Project,
the Bank Team continued to fulfill its due diligence through monitoring the
implementation of the remaining (remedial and road safety) works on the Igoeti-Sveneti
section that were not completed by the end of the Project (those works were funded from
the GOG’s budget). While these works were not part of the design of the Project they are
nevertheless associated with the SEWHIP road segment.

5.1.4 Despite the difficulty in finding a road safety champion in the GOG and despite the
Transport Commission not really performing the role of a road safety multi-agency
coordinating body, the Bank Team took a risk in leading concerted traffic safety efforts in
the country. The Bank took advantage of this and other on-going projects and organized a
National Traffic Safety Workshop in February 2008. Even the CD took an active role in the
road safety dialogue. This allowed the Bank: (i) to maintain its commitment to the UN
Decade of Action for Road Safety; (ii) to contribute to the achievement of the safety aspect
of the PDOs; and (iii) to ensure that momentum was maintained with the follow-up project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.5 The MS rating was based on the Bank’s MS performance in ensuring quality at
entry, and on its MS performance during Project implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.1 The moderately unsatisfactory (MU) rating is given to the Borrower for the overall
Project period performance. Despite high commitment to the Project, there were instances
that indicated high degree of political interference, which affected the quality outputs in a
few deliverables and the sustainability of some project benefits. The commitment of the
Borrower to the achievement of the PDOs was demonstrated through the adoption of the
National Road Safety Strategy prior to the appraisal of the AF and its continuous financial
support to the Project throughout its course of implementation despite the financial crisis
and economic slowdown that hit Georgia in 2008-2009. While implementing reforms in the
ministries — in particular, establishing the MRDI in 2009 and moving the RD from the
MOED to MRDI — the GOG made sure that these ministerial reforms did not affect in any



                                             23
way Project implementation and the same core Project team remained in place for the
duration of the project.

5.2.2 As indicated above, there were a number of actions from the Borrower’s side that
affected the decision-making process, the performance of the RD as a frontline
implementing agency, and the quality of the Project outputs. These actions included: (i)
demanding an overly ambitious schedule for design preparation and civil works
procurement activities; (ii) implementing two premature openings of the Project road
sections for all traffic and disregarding environmental safeguards, prior to the Bank
management’s interference; (iii) delaying the order for closure of the Project road
sections necessary for the second contractor to complete remaining works and remedial
measures; and (iv) re-assigning the contractor to finish a different on-going contract,
instead of concentrating on completing the Project’s remaining works and remedial
measures by the end of the Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.3 The moderately satisfactory (MS) rating is given to the implementing agency (IA)
for the following reasons: (i) the RD as the client did not undertake effective monitoring
of the earlier stages of the road construction; and (ii) the RD allowed partial compliance
with the Project’s covenant related to implementation of the EMP and the RAP during
half the course of Project implementation. Effective monitoring by the RD in the first
year of Project implementation would have alerted the Bank of the seriousness of the
situation — and earlier intervention could have averted many of the problems, or at least
minimized their impacts. The RD should not have: (i) allowed the first road contractor to
start the civil works without full compliance with the RAP; (ii) allowed the first
contractor to cause damage to an Igoeti resident’s property; or (iii) neglected to enforce
monitoring of the EMP implementation.

5.2.4 The reason why the RD was able to avoid an MU rating is because: (i) it came to
recognize its shortfalls; (ii) it was proactive in requesting that the Bank carry out an
earlier than planned mid-term review and in seeking the Bank’s help in identifying the
root causes of implementation issues; and (iii) it was ultimately able to resolve all issues
and achieve the PDOs to a substantial degree.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.5 The overall MU rating is assigned due to the MU performance of the Borrower as
described above.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1     Political economy plays a critical and direct role in highly visible projects. The
Bank Team that is tasked with preparing highly visible projects in a manner that are
attractive for politicians should not ignore the direct role of political economy in the


                                            24
quality of project preparation and implementation. It should pay special attention to
ensuring that project schedules are realistic and that due diligence is present in all aspects
of preparation and implementation in order to minimize the risks of cost and time
overruns and poor quality of outputs due to political pressure for speedy project
implementation. The Bank should ensure the availability of minimum relevant skills on
the Team to provide minimum assurance to the client with respect to the project budget,
timeline and design, but without substituting to the necessary control processes of the
client. This should be done in such a way that the Bank ensures that responsibility for the
content and design rest securely with the client.

6.2     A corridor and framework approach should be applied in preparation and
implementation of the same type of road projects. . In this way, a corridor approach will
be followed in subsequent projects — and thus, the same framework will be applied
throughout the entire road corridor. This approach is especially valuable when resources
are limited and projects need to be done on a one-by-one basis. When projects are managed
in such a unified and integrated way, lessons can be incorporated in on-going projects or
projects under preparation without the need to wait for an ICR from which to draw lessons
and recommendations. In addition, safeguard-related frameworks developed under one
project can provide a sound basis for an upcoming project, and can be regularly updated
and improved, and eventually mainstreamed in the IA. This is how the Social Safeguards
Framework was developed that is now applied to all donor and government funded new
road construction projects managed by the RD. The environmental framework is still
gaining its momentum, and it is already being applied to all WB-funded projects. With the
WB’s continuous presence in the sector and the RD’s high commitment to environmental
safeguards, it is expected that the environmental framework will have the same destiny as
the Social Framework. Lessons in needs for proper design reviews are also currently
implemented in ongoing projects on the East-West Highway.

6.3     The Project should allocate sufficient time and budget for the pre-construction
activities, including preparation and review of designs. The works designs were
submitted with a four-month delay in December 2007, and were immediately tendered
out within a month without a proper review. An ambitious timeline and a tight budget for
the preparation of designs for such a complex project were major reasons for the poor
quality of those designs. A more realistic timeframe would have been 12 months at a cost
of about 5% of the construction cost estimate. The Borrower should not have rushed the
process; and the RD should have reviewed the designs in detail before starting the
bidding process in January 2008. Given a massive ongoing investment program, the RD
should either consider establishing a new unit in charge of the review of cost estimates
and designs or hire an independent design review firm to ensure the quality of designs for
complex projects and to prevent problems during the construction phase.

6.4    Both the client and the Bank need to be very diligent in ensuring that reporting
requirements from both the contractor and the supervision consultant are enforced in
order to ensure that contract management be exercised without putting the client in a
weak position with the contractor. In reaction to the poor performance of the first road
contractor and the consultant, the RD became directly involved in site visits and in



                                             25
instructing the contractor. This did not only create an inconsistency, given the FIDIC
requirements, but also opened up the RD to claims from the contractor.

6.5     If establishment or operation of a road safety inter-agency coordinating body is
included in the project’s results framework, the project should also include support to
this body. The role of a road safety multi-agency coordination body assigned to the
Transport Commission at the MOED was new. It was challenging for the Commission to
understand what responsibilities it should perform and what competencies it should have in
place. As a consequence, the Commission did not play an effective role and its impact on
road safety was negligible. The Bank should have incorporated support to this Commission
in the design of the road safety component. If the Project would have included, for example,
development of the TORs for this road safety inter-agency coordinating body and support
to some capacity-building for this body, the Transport Commission would have better
understood and more effectively carried out its assigned role.

6.6     Traffic safety should be enforced by the employer and supervision consultants
on all construction works in Georgia. The fatal accident involving a local employee of
the first road contractor indicates that traffic safety during construction works on roads
remains a problem, despite overall improved road safety on Georgian roads. There is a
traffic safety provision in the Bills of Quantity — the employer and supervision
consultant should take advantage of that provision. When it has been determined that the
contractor has not been compliant with safety requirements, payment should be refused
until such time as the contractor has undertaken a remedial action to adequately provide
for the safety of construction workers and road users.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1    The Borrower/IA submitted to the Bank its Completion Report (CR) for the
SEWHIP on October 19, 2012. The report slightly exceeded 10 pages, and it was decided
to enclose the entire main text, excluding the annexes, in Annex 7. The entire CR
together with its annexes has been saved in the Project files.

7.2     The Bank and the IA discussed the Bank’s draft ICR during the mission in
December 2012. Following that discussion, the Borrower submitted its comments on
December 26, 2012. The IA agreed with the factors that affected project implementation
and lessons drawn in the draft ICR. It also stressed that an ICR as a document at the
completion of the project “should focus on the lessons learnt and gained experience
rather than on the problems encountered at the implementation stage, so that to consider a
number of additional measures in the forthcoming projects.? The IA already applies
lessons in projects under preparation and on-going projects through: (i) “increasing a
number of specialists in the supervision companies?, (ii) “employing individual
consultants (resettlement, environmental, procurement, etc.) to strengthen the capacity of
the RD managing donor-funded projects?, (iii) planning an “extended program of
trainings and workshops to upgrade the staff qualification?; and (iv) planning
implementation of “structural changes — starting from 2013 — to establish



                                            26
Environmental and Social Unit in order to have improved coordination, monitoring and
management of project related issues?.

7.3     The IA stressed that it was “the first time in the practice of Roads Department to
prepare such [a] report? and “this is actually the first completed project for the
Implementing Agency to perceive [gain] the experiences and skills and to foster their
further development?. In addition, it also highlighted “that the problematic issues arisen
due to objective and subjective factors during the project progress were, at the end, fully
eliminated as a result of numerous drastic measures and active and efficient actions taken
by both the Implementing Agency and the World Bank team?.

7.5     Based on all above mentioned, the Borrower/IA suggested that the Bank team
preparing the ICR consider a "Satisfactory" rating for both the IA and the Borrower, to
recognize the efforts made throughout and the incentive signal that this will provide to
staff involved in the projects managed by the IA. The Bank team took this into
consideration while finalizing the final ratings and considered that the ratings agreed
earlier as “MS? and “MU? for an overall rating of MU continued to be adequate. The
Bank team recognizes the substantial level of commitment from the Borrower to the
Project but the final rating for the Borrower reflects the fact that early openings of the
road infrastructure to traffic against the Bank’s advice had a detrimental effect on the
Project implementation and the sustainability of the Project outcome. On the other hand,
the MS rating for the IA reflects its pro-activeness, risk-taking and success in resolving
major issues, while also recognizing that it was not able to fully address some pending
implementation issues (incomplete remedial works and safety measures) at the time of
the ICR submission.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Upgrade of the Igoeti to
Sveneti section of the E60             70.5                  60.93         86%
Highway
Road Safety                             2.13                  0.23         11%
Project Implementation                  0.72                 0.014          2%
            Total Baseline Cost      73.35                  61.174         83%
Physical Contingencies                4.14                    0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                   2.50                    0.00         0.00
             Total Project Costs     80.00                  61.174         83%
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00                    0.00         0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00                    0.00         0.00
      Total Financing Required       80.00                  61.174         83%




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of       Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing       (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                   millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         45.00       7.134         16%
International Development
                                                 35.00       54.04       154%
Association (IDA)




                                          28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project comprised three components: (i) upgrading of the Igoeti to Sveneti section of
the E60 Highway from two to four lanes, including the construction of four bridges at
Igoeti bypass, (ii) Road Safety Component, and (iii) Project Implementation Component.
The Additional Financing did not affect the design, scope and components. It only
contributed additional funds (USD 20 million) as it was already anticipated appraisal of
the parent project.

The following outputs were produced under each of the components:

Component 1: Upgrade of the Igoeti to Sveneti section of the E60 Highway from two
to four lanes including the construction of four bridges at Igoeti bypass: This
component financed:
(i)    civil works for (a) the construction of a new two-lane carriage way along a 24-km
       section of the E60 highway from Igoeti to Sveneti between KP55 and KP79, and
       the construction of two underpasses (280 m and 90 m length), one field road (880
       m) and five local roads (over 1.1 km of total length) linked to the Igoeti-Sveneti
       section; and (b) the construction of four bridges to allow the crossing of a small
       and narrow valley and the Lekhura River at Igoeti bypass and the rehabilitation of
       the existing two-lane carriageway along the same 24-km section of the E60
       highway;
(ii)   consultant services for the supervision of the works; and
(iii) consultancy services for the design of another section of the E60 Highway which
       was eventually taken on by the on-going TEWHIP.

This component originally involved two major civil works procurement packages: (i) the
construction of the new carriageway, rehabilitation of the existing carriageway, and
construction of underpasses and local roads providing access to the Igoeti-Sveneti section
and (ii) the construction of the four new bridges. It was planned to be implemented in two
stages, with the construction of two additional lanes in the first stage, and the rehabilitation
of the existing carriageway from Igoeti to Sveneti and the construction of the second
carriageway at the Igoeti bypass. The Igoeti bypass required the construction on four main
bridges, two for each carriageway to allow the crossing of a small and narrow valley and
the Lekhura River. The construction of the four new bridges was procured as one package
because the four bridges were identical for each carriageway and the contractor was able to
use the same equipment for their construction. The construction of the bridges was also
implemented in two stages, with the construction of the two bridges along the new two-lane
carriageway in the first stage and the construction of the twin bridges along the parallel
carriageway in the second stage. During the project preparation, it was anticipated that this
phasing would allow the opening of the additional two new lanes once they were finished
and would allow the transit along the entire section.

The final design for road works was tendered in about a month after its submission to the
RD by the design consultants in December 2007. 45 days, although permitted under WB
rules, were given for the bid submission, which was insufficient for the bidders to carry



                                              29
out site surveys and prepare informed bids, and the road contract was signed in May 2008.
Procurement of the bridge works was carried out in late 2008-early 2009 and the bridges
contract was signed in April 2009. The first road works contract was allowed for natural
expiration and was not extended by the Roads Department (RD) in July 2010 due to poor
performance by the contractor (e.g., poor quality of works resulting in premature
pavement cracks, other defects). A second road civil works contract was subsequently
awarded to another contractor in June 2011 to (a) complete the remaining road
construction works; (b) carry out remedial repairs; (c) construct access and local roads;
(d) construct additional road safety measures; and (e) implement environmental remedial
activities. A separate contract was awarded to carry out compensatory tree planting to
rectify non-compliance with the EMP by the first contractor.

The bridge contract was awarded within 30 days of the bidding announcement. The
execution of this contract had significantly fewer and less critical problems. Due to the
problems in the execution of the main road contract and subsequent delay in providing
access to the bridge, the bridges eventually needed another contractor to provide access.

Since then, implementation of the two civil works contracts progressed well until E60
was opened by the GOG to traffic in November 2011. Harsh winter conditions also
prevented the second road contractor to complete the remaining and remedial works.
After extension of the project, the GOG took more than 4 months to finally close the road
for the traffic that the contractor could complete the remaining works. By the closure of
the project, the contractor only partially completed the remedial works, construction of
access and local roads, and implementation of additional road safety measures, because
the contractor was instructed to mobilize and complete another major road construction
project on another road financed by GOG. The contractor was re-assigned by the GOG to
work on another important road project. In August 2012, the contractor returned to that
SEWHIP road segment to complete the remaining works financed from GOG’s budget.
In December, 2012, the Bank was advised that the contractor got bankrupt and some of
the remedial works which were financed from GOG budget were still. The remaining
remedial works that need to be completed include the repair of cracks, construction of
drainages at two interchanges. The RD intends to re-bid the remaining repair and road
safety works and have those works completed in April 2013. Even if the remaining works
are re-tendered out now, they could not be executed due to the current winter condition.
The Bank team will take advantage of its upcoming missions associated with the ongoing
or new projects in order to continue monitoring the situation with regards to these
remaining works and ensure that those works are eventually completed.

As part of easing up access to and improving safety on those accesses to the SEWHIP
segment, the project also supported the construction of connecting/access roads
(secondary roads) and rest areas in order to ease up access from those secondary roads to
SEWHIP segment and to improve safety for commercial entities operating along this
highway and customers using the services of these entities. Access roads were designed
and built at three places where commercial entities were operating: at km 61.100, where
one restaurant was operating, at km 74.800 where gas stand was located, and at km




                                           30
75.400 where there was one gas stand and one restaurant. A pair of rest areas was built at
km 56.500 right after the Igoeti bridge.

                          Table 3 - Civil Works Contracts Costs
                        Contract   Actual    Contract   Contract      Contract      Contract
 Contract                 Cost      Cost       Sign       Start     Expected End   Actual End
                        (US$ m)    (US$ m)     Date      Date          Date          Date
 First Road Contract                                    21-Mar-
 (SEWHIP/CW/ICB-01)       74.8      69.2     5-Mar-08     08         30-Jul-10     30-Jul-10
 Bridge Contract
 (SEWHIP/CW/ICB-02)       12.4      11.1     6-Apr-09   30-Apr-09    30-Sep-11     30-Sep-11
 Second Road
 (Remedial) Contract                         22-Jun-                                30-Nov-
 (SEWHIP/CW/ICB-03)       14.4      12.0       11       1-Jul-11     30-Aug-12       2012
 Total                    101.6     92.3

Component 2: Road Safety: This component comprised works, specialized consultancy
services, training, and equipment as needed to strengthen the capacity of RDMED to
develop and implement a traffic safety program along the E60 corridor and other roads.

The component supported engineering improvements in the E60, especially between Tbilisi
to Rikoti, and other roads focusing on low cost safety measures. It financed the removal of
24 (against the target of 20) blackspots, supply and installation of guardrails at various
locations on 24 km of high-risk road sections and provision of edge markings and reflective
delineators as advance warnings to drivers and to guide them through intersections and
dangerous bends. Other improvements outside "urban" areas included construction of
fences where there was danger of animal encroachment onto the road, improved visibility,
making provision (designated crosswalks and sidewalks in the underpasses under E60) for
pedestrians, creating safe waiting areas at intersections and reducing potential conflicts at
petrol stations by rearranging entry and exit points using curbstones.

During the design of the new two-lane carriageway and reconstruction of the existing two
lane carriageway, it was anticipated to install New Jersey barriers that would separate the
two carriageways and prevent drivers from getting into the opposite direction
carriageway during the overtaking. The installation of these planned New Jersey barrier
was about to start when the GOG decided to install light poles with its own budget to
provide lightening along the newly-rehabilitated E-60 highway sections. The lights were
provided within a short period of time and without prior notification or consultation with
the Bank team on possible road safety risks. During the mission following the installation
of light poles, the Bank team immediately recommended the installation of the New
Jersey barriers along the both sides of median to protect drivers from crashing into
exposed lights and light pole foundations. It was agreed that these works (estimated to
cost about US$1.65 million) would be financed from the GOG budget and be completed
by the end of the SEWHIP. In December 2012, the Bank was advised that the contractor
got bankrupt and not all works were completed. The remaining safety measures that need
to be completed include installation of New Jersey barriers in the median of the
westbound carriageway and traffic signs and road marking on one of the acceleration


                                             31
road and 4 interchanges. These works part of the same contract which was given to the
second road contractor to carry out the repair works (see the above discussion).

The component also supported the development of safety management capability and
capacity building in thenRDMED to deal with blackspots removal as well as developing
new standards for road safety (marking, signing, traffic management, etc.) through the
following activities:

(i) Training for MRDIRD staff to more effectively analyze hazardous locations and to be
able to design and oversee implementation of safety improvements;
(ii) Translation into Georgian of several roads safety handbooks which are considered
good practice in Western European countries and which were found of particular use by
the Road Safety Unit of the RD;
(iii) Technical Assistance (TA) for Preparation of Road Safety Audit Guidelines, namely:
      • Guidelines for Safety Audits of Existing Roads
      • Guidelines for Safety Audits for New Road Designs
      • Guidelines for Traffic Management at Road Works and Temporary Diversions
      • Guidelines for Road Traffic Signs and Markings
(iv) TA for Design, Supply and Installation of a Road Crash Data Base. This TA was
eventually broken down into two stages. The first stage was implemented under this
project and covered the following:
     • Design a system to reflect the existing situation
     • Options for improvement
     • Design of an improved system

The second stage of this TA for Design, Supply and Installation of a Road Crash Data
Base is being supported under the Bank-funded TEWHIP and covers:
   • supply and installation of a system
   • testing and validation

Component 3: Project implementation: The component financed consultant services
for TRRC, project audits and incremental operational costs to support implementation of
the project.




                                          32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Economic Analysis

The economic analysis done at appraisal covers the main components of the project: the
upgrade from two to four lanes of the highway between Igoeti to Sveneti and construction
of the Igoeti bypass including the rehabilitation of the local two-lane road through the
Igoeti village. The expected impact on the economic evaluation of the project with the
AF was not material because the AF did not modify the scope of the project. The ex-post
economic evaluation covers the same project components including actual costs and
traffic data. Benefit calculations was done using the Highway Development and
Management Model (HDM-4) that follows the standard methodology of comparing, over
time, the operating performances between the scenario without the investment and that
with the investment. The main types of benefits considered are: vehicle operating costs
savings, time savings for both passenger and freights transiting on the road section and
maintenance costs savings.

B. Traffic Forecast

Traffic counts on the E60 highway are undertaken by the Roads Department (RD) every
year. The 2011 traffic on the Igoeti-Sveneti road section is 11,613 vehicles per day and
on the Igoeti bypass 12,015 vehicles per day. Cars along the section are 74 percent of
total traffic that represents an increase from the 70 percent recorded in 2007 (Table 1).

                              Table 1 - Traffic Composition (%)
                      Vehicle Type                                2007   2011
                      Cars                                        70%    74%
                      Buses and Pickups                           18%    15%
                      Light and Medium Trucks                     6%     6%
                      Heavy and Articulated Trucks                6%     5%

                        Table 2 - Igoeti-Sveneti Daily Traffic
                             Year                (vehicles/day)
                             2006                    8,672
                             2007                    9,478
                             2008                    9,238
                             2009                    10,974
                             2010                    11,093
                             2011                    11,613

At appraisal, for the purpose of determining future road traffic levels, the following
assumptions have been made: in the case of the new bypass, only about 10 percent of the
traffic passing through the town of Igoeti is local and is expected to remain in the old
alignment, and the expected annual traffic growth rate on the project roads is 6.0 percent
per year based on GDP projections. The actual observed annual traffic growth rate on the


                                                33
project road between 2006 and 2011 is 6.2 percent (Table 2), while the average annual
traffic growth rate between 2008 and 2011 on the E60 highway is 5.7 percent. Thus, the
actual annual traffic growth rate from 2006 to 2011 is 3% higher than the one estimate at
appraisal.

C. Project Costs

The upgrade to four lanes of the Igoeti-Sveneti section was estimated at appraisal to cost
US$41.95 million, and the construction of the Igoeti bypass and the rehabilitation of the
Igoeti local road were estimated to cost US$25.70 million and 1.08 million respectively
in financial costs, totaling US$68.73 million (see table 4). These civil works were
procured with three contracts with total actual costs corresponding to US$92.30 million
(Table 3). The first contract (SEWHIP/CW/ICB-01) was for the improvement of E60
Igoeti-Sveneti section between km55-km80 (US$69.2 million), the second contract
(SEWHIP/CW/ICB-02) was for the construction of the Igoeti and Lekhura bridges
(US$11.1 million), and the third contract (SEWHIP/CW/ICB-03) was for remaining
construction and repairing works for the E60 Igoeti-Sveneti section, environmental
remediation measures, construction of access roads, and local roads (US$12.0 million).
                          Table 3 - Civil Works Contracts Costs
                              Contract         Actual      Contract    Contract        Contract           Contract
 Contract                      Cost            Cost          Sign        Start      Expected End         Actual End
 Number                       (US$ m)      (US$ m)           Date       Date             Date              Date
                                                                       21-Mar-
 SEWHIP/CW/ICB-01              74.8             69.2       5-Mar-08      08            30-Jul-10         30-Jul-10
 SEWHIP/CW/ICB-02              12.4             11.1       6-Apr-09    30-Apr-09       30-Sep-11         30-Sep-11
                                                            22-Jun-                                       30-Nov-
 SEWHIP/CW/ICB-03              14.4             12.0          11       1-Jul-11      30-Aug-12             2012
 Total                         101.6            92.3

For the ex-post economic evaluation, an estimate was done of the breakdown of the total
actual costs divided between the upgrading the Igoeti-Sveneti section (US$ 69.37
million), including the rehabilitation of the Igoeti local road, and the Igoeti bypass
construction (US$ 22.93 million). It is estimated that the upgrading of the Igoeti-Sveneti
section and the rehabilitation of the Igoeti local road had an actual cost 61 percent higher
than the ones estimated at appraisal, while the actual cost of the Igoeti bypass
construction is 11 percent lower than the appraisal estimate. The total actual costs are 34
percent higher than the appraisal estimates (Table 4).
                         Table 4 - Civil Works Cost (million US$)
                                      Length               PAD             Actual          Ex-Ante/Ex-Post
                                       (km)             Ex-Ante Cost    Ex-Post Cost               (%)
    Igoeti-Sveneti Section*            20.4                41.95            69.37                  161%
    Igoeti Bypass                        4.2               25.70            22.93                  89%
    Igoeti Local Road*                   2.7                1.08
    Total                              27.3                68.73            92.30                  134%
    *Actual Igoeti-Sveneti section cost includes rehabilitation of Igoeti local road cost




                                                           34
The upgrading of the Igoeti-Sveneti section was estimated at appraisal to be done in 2009
and 2010, the construction of the Igoeti bypass in 2008 and 2009, and the rehabilitation
of the local Igoeti road in 2008, resulting on a distribution of 17, 37 and 46 percent of the
total project costs in 2008, 2009 and 2010 respectively (Table 5). The actual project costs
distribution shows that most of the project expenditures were disbursed in 2009 (64
percent) and 5 percent were disbursed in 2011.
                        Table 5 - Civil Works Costs Distribution (%)
                                  PAD Estimate             Actual Payments
                      Year     (million US$)      (%)    (million US$)   (%)
                      2008        11.63           17%        15.75       17%
                      2009        25.27           37%        59.41       64%
                      2010        31.82           46%        12.64       14%
                      2011         0.00           0%         4.49        5%
                      2012         0.00           0%         0.00        0%
                      Total       68.73           100%       92.29       100%

D. Cost Benefit Analysis

The ex-post cost-benefit analysis follows the same model, methodology and assumptions
applied at appraisal, with the following changes: (i) actual annual traffic growth rate of
6.2 percent from 2007 to 2011, followed by 6.0 percent after 2011; (ii) actual project
costs as given on Table 4; (iii) actual construction duration; (iv) actual distribution of
project costs over time as given on Table 5; and (v) actual roughness reduction with the
project. The road roughness reduced from 3.8 and 4.8 IRI, m/km on the Igoeti-Sveneti
section and Igoeti bypass to 2.014 and 2.19 IRI, m/km respectively.
                      Table 6 - Economic Internal Rate of Return (%)
                                          PAD               Actual           Ex-Ante/Ex-Post
                                   Ex-Ante EIRR          Ex-Post EIRR             (%)
      Igoeti-Sveneti Section              15.3%             12.5%                 82%
      Igoeti Bypass                       13.3%             14.5%                109%
      Igoeti Local Road                   12.9%             13.0%                 101%
      Overall                             14.5%              13%                  90%

The ex-post economic evaluation results in a marginal overall Economic Internal rate of
Return (EIRR) of 13 percent, compared to an ex-ante overall EIRR of 14.5 percent. The
higher costs of the upgrading of the Igoeti-Sveneti section reduce the EIRR of that
component to 12.5 percent from 15.3 percent. The EIRR of the construction of the Igoeti
bypass increases from 13.3 to 14.5 percent because the lower construction costs are
compensated by the longer construction period. The EIRR of the rehabilitation of the
Igoeti local road increases marginally from 12.9 to 13.0 percent due to the higher
observed traffic growth rate.




                                                   35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
     Names                        Title              Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
                                                    MNST
Olivier P. Le Ber   Lead Transport Specialist                 TTL
                                                      R
Jacques Bure        Sr. Highway Engineer            ECSTR     Sr. Highway Engineer
Mirtha Pokorny      Transport Economist             LCSTR     Transport Economist
Tamar Sulukhia      Country Sector Coordinator      ECSSD     Sr. Infrastructure Spec.
                                                              Sr. Social Development
Satoshi Ishihara    Sr. Social Development Specialist EASTS
                                                              Specialist
Darejan                                                       Sr. Environmental
                    Sr. Environmental Specialist    ECSS3
Kapanadze                                                     Specialist
Karl Skansing    Procurement Specialist             AFTSP     Procurement Specialist
                 Sr. Financial Management                     Sr. Financial
Arman Vatyan                                        ECSO3
                 Specialist                                   Management Specialist
Elizabeth Wang Sr. Financial Officer                ECSS5     Sr. Financial Officer
Sevara Melibaeva Young Professional                 AFTTR     Transport Economist
Coral Daphne
                 Program Assistant                  ECSSD Program Assistant
Bird
Remi Cousin      Consultant                         ECSSD Transport Consultant

Supervision/ICR
                                                              Sr. Transport Specialist,
                                                              TTL from 01/05/2010
Jean-Francois
                    Sr. Transport Specialist        ECSTR     to 05/01/2011 , and
Marteau
                                                              from 04/18/2012 to
                                                              06/30/2012
                                                              Lead Transport
Petrus Benjamin                                               Specialist, TTL from
                    Lead Transport Specialist       AFTTR
Gericke                                                       05/02/2011 to
                                                              04/17/2012
                                                              Sr. Transport Specialist,
Christopher R.
                    Sr. Transport Specialist        EASNS     TTL from 09/09/2009
Bennett
                                                              to 01/04/2010
                                                              Sr. Financial Officer,
Elizabeth Wang      Sr. Financial Officer           ECSTR     TTL from 01/08/2009
                                                              to 09/08/2009
                                                              Lead Transport
                                                    MNST
Olivier Le Ber      Lead Transport Specialist                 Specialist, TTL from
                                                     R
                                                              10/11/2005 to


                                            36
                                                             01/07/2009
Jacques Bure       Sr. Highway Engineer            ECSTR     Sr. Highway Engineer
Joseph Melitauri   Sr. Operations Officer          ECSEG     Sr. Operations Officer
                                                             Sr. Infrastructure
Tamar Sulukhia     Country Sector Coordinator      ECSSD
                                                             Specialist
Natalya                                                      ICR TTL and Primary
                   Transport Specialist            ECSTR
Stankevich                                                   Author
Darejan                                            ECSSE     Sr. Environmental
                   Sr. Environmental Specialist
Kapanadze                                            N       Specialist
                                                             Sr. Social Development
Satoshi Ishihara   Sr. Social Development Specialist EASTS
                                                             Specialist
                                                             Social Development
Vera Dugandzic     Operations Officer              ECSSO
                                                             Specialist
                   Sr. Financial Management                  Sr. Financial
Arman Vatyan                                       ECSO3
                   Specialist                                Management Specialist
                                                             Sr. Procurement
Deepal Fernando    Sr. Procurement Specialist      ECSO2
                                                             Specialist
Karl Skansing      Consultant                                Procurement Specialist
Gibet Camos-                                                 Junior Professional
                   Junior Professional Associate   ECSTR
Daurella                                                     Associate
Alejandro Lopez                                              Junior Professional
                   Junior Professional Associate   ECSS5
Martinez                                                     Associate
David Silcock      Consultant                      SASDT     Road Safety Specialist
Asif Faiz          Consultant                      SACPA     Highway Engineer
Jiangbo Ning       Consultant                      ECSS5     Highway Engineer
                                                             Sr. Procurement
Jesus Renzoli      Consultant                      ECSO2
                                                             Specialist
                                                             Environmental
Anil Somani        Consultant                      EASNS
                                                             Specialist
Marie Laygo        Program Assistant               ECSSD     Program Assistant
Militsa
                   Program Assistant               ECCGE Program Assistant
Khoshtaria




                                            37
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
 FY07                                     15.13                    71.71
 FY08                                     29.71                   213.26
                          Total:          44.84                   284.97
Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                     0.00                      0.00
 FY08                                    15.31                     68.79
 FY09                                    32.12                    129.89
 FY10                                    45.89                    216.43
 FY11                                    31.66                    103.92
 FY12                                    11.23                     51.64
 FY13                                     6.92                     36.00
                          Total:        143.13                    606.67




                                       38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    53
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documentation
• Project Concept Note, Georgia: SEWHIP. March 21, 2007.
• Project Appraisal Document on a proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 22.4
   Million (USD35.0 Million equivalent) to Georgia for a SEWHIP, November 19, 2007
• Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of SEWHIP IDA-43730 and
   IDA-45120, February 20, 2012
• Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing Credit in the Amount of SDR 12.8
   Million (USD20.0 Million equivalent) to Georgia for a SEWHIP, October 1, 2008
• Financing Agreement (SEWHIP) between Georgia and International Development
   Association, Dated December 20, 2007
• Agreement Amending Financing Agreement (SEWHIP) between Georgia and
   International Development Association, Dated November 6, 2008
• Minutes of Concept Review for Georgia: SEWHIP, March 31, 2007
• Results of the Quality Enhancement Review for Georgia: SEWHIP, June 06, 2007
• Minutes or Summary of Decision Package Review Meeting for Georgia: SEWHIP,
   November 12, 2007
• Georgia - Second East-West Highway Improvement Project: Resettlement Plan. April
   1, 2008
• Georgia - Second East-West Highway Improvement Project : Environmental
   Assessment, October 23, 2006
• Assessment for upgrading section of the E-60 highway between Igoeti and Sventi (km
   56 to km 80): Environmental Assessment, August 1, 2007

Mission Aide-Memoires and Implementation Status Reports
• Identification Mission Aide-Memoire, February 2007
• Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire, April 2007
• Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, July 2007
• Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, October 2007
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, July 2008
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, July 2008
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, January 20-28, 2009
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, May 13-24, 2009 (Mid-term Review)
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, July 10-17, 2009
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, September 7-21, 2009
• SEWHIP Construction Component Technical Audit, the World Bank, October 31,
   2009
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, November 9-16, 2009
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, December 21-22, 2009
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, January 25-February 5, 2010
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, March 5-10, 2010
• Environmental Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, June 1-4 and 14-21, 2010
• Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, September 19-25, October 4-8 and November 7-
   11, 2011


                                        54
•   Partial Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, February 5, 2012
•   Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, April 2-7, 2012
•   Social Safeguards Review Mission Report, April 30-May 4, 2012
•   Last Implementation Support Mission Aide-Memoire, June 11-15, 2012
•   ICR Mission Aide-Memoire, July 16-24, 2012
•   ICR Mission Aide-Memoire, September 24-29, 2012
•   Implementation Support Mission Aide-Memoire, November 5 -11 and December 12-20,
    2012
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 1, April 7, 2008
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 2, May 28, 2007
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 3, November 12, 2008
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 4, July 4, 2009
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 5, November 6, 2009
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 6, May 26, 2010
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 7, January 31, 2011
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 8, July 5, 2011
•   Georgia Second East-West Highway Improvement : P094044 - Implementation
    Status Results Report 9, June 26, 2012

Other documents and reports
• Project Appraisal Document on a proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 13.8
   Million (USD20.0 Million equivalent) to Georgia for a SLRP, May 28, 2004
• Country Partnership Strategy for Georgia for the period FY10-13, August 2009
• Country Partnership Strategy for Georgia for the period FY06-09, October 12, 2005
• Improving the Sustainability of Road Management and Financing in Georgia. The
   World Bank. October 13, 2011
• Georgia Poverty Dynamics, 2003-2010. The World Bank. June 1, 2011
• Strategic “10-Point Plan? of the Government of Georgia for Modernization and
   Employment. Government of Georgia, October 2011. 2011-2015
• Georgian National Traffic Safety Strategy. Ministry of Economic Development of
   Georgia. 2008
• Second East-West Highway Improvement Project Construction Component Technical
   Audit for The World Bank, 31 October 2009.




                                         55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 39682
                  40 °                                                                   41 °                                                                     42 °                                                    43 °                                                    44 °                                                                    45 °                                                                    46 °


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GEORGIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SECOND EAST-WEST HIGHWAY
  To
   ˘
 Soci
                                                                                                                      R U S S I A N                               F E D E R A T I O N                                                                                                                IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROAD SECTION UPGRADED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNDER THE PROJECT (WB)                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNDER THE FIRST EAST-WEST HIGHWAY                                                            RAILWAYS
                                  Gagra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (FEWHIP) (WB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GLACIER AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FINANCED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GEORGIA                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO-FINANCING BY THE KUWAIT FUND (KF)                                                         SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNDER CONSIDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
43 °
                                                                                          Sokhumi                                                                                          Engu              Mestia                                                                                                    EAST - WEST ROAD CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43 °




                                                                                                                               ˘
                                                                                                                          Tkvarceli                         ˘
                                                                                                                                                      Akarmara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0                   15            30           45        60      75 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To Vladikavkaz



                                                                                                   Ocamcira
                                                                                                    ˘ ˘                                                                   ˘
                                                                                                                                                                         Dzvari

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kazbegi




                                                                                                                                                                                                            li
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Oni




                                                                                                                                                                                                            ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                        isc
                                                                                                                                                 ri                                                                                       Ri on i
                                                                                                                                            gu




                                                                                                                                                                                                       en
                                                                                                                                       En
                                                                                                                                                          Zugdidi




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ambrolauri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ni
                              B        l         a                  c        k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ara




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gvi

                                                                                                                                                                                      Chaltubo                                                        ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sachere                                                                                                                                                                                              RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tkibuli                        rilk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kvi
                                                                                                                        Kulevi                                           Senaki             Kutaisi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RUISI-AGARA            Chinvali                                                                                                                                                     FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Brotseula                                                                            IGOETI-SVENETI (SEWHIP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (KF)
                                      S              e              a                                                        Poti
                                                                                                                                                                         R io n
                                                                                                                                                                  Samtredia
                                                                                                                                                                                  i       Mukhiani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Surami
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (WB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zestaponi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rikoti Tunnel                                                      AGAIANI-IGOETI (FEWHIP)
                                                                                                                                     Supsa                                                                                                                                       Ruisi                                                                                           Ahmeta
42 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sveneti                               (WB)                                                                                                                                                   42 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Agara                                       Igoeti                   Natakhtari                                            Al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         az
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Khasuri                    Gori                                     Agaiani                                           Telavi                    an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                   Ozurgeti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SVENETI-RUISI                          M tk v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ari (                                                                                                                         Lagodehi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kur   a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mtskheta
                                                                                                                              Kobuleti                                                                                                                Borjomi           (GoG)                                                                   Zagesi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Z agesi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATAKHTARI-AGAIANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Gurdzaani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bakuriani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (GoG)                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zagatala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fonichala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F onichala
                                                                                                                      Batumi                                                                                                                                                                                                          TBILISI                                             Ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vale             Ahalcihe                                                                                                                                                                                                  Snoris Tskali
         40 °                                                                     41 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rustavi
                                                                                                                  Sarpi

        UKRAINE                                                                  KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gardabani
                                                                                                                       To Trabzon                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Marneuli                                                                               Dedopis-Ckaro
                                                                                                                                    roki




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ahalkalaki                                                                                                           Vakhtangisi
                                                                                                                                Cho




                                      RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kazreti                 Red
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Red Bridge
                                     FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To         M tk va ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ninocminda                                                                                                                     Gazah




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   anl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A la z
       Black     Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a)
                                                                            Caspian                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To                                                                                                       Ior
                                      GEORGIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                               Sea                                                                                       T U R K E Y                                                                                                                        ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To Tasir                               Alaverdi
                                           Tbilisi
                                                                                                TURKMENISTAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Gyumri                                                                                                                                                                                                       41 °
                                               AR                                                              41 °
                                                     M
                                                         E        AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                         N
                                                             IA




                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                T U R K E Y                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                     A R M E N I A
                                                                                                                              judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                              acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A Z E R B A I J A N

                  SYRIAN ARAB REP.         IRAQ                         ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN                                                               42 °                                                         43 °                                                          44 °                                                                       45 °                                                                      46 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DECEMBER 2012
