CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 411 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coromandel Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 411 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coromandel Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1973, between MAURITIUS (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out in part by the Development Bank of
Mauritius; and
(C)   The Association is willing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and the Development Bank of Mauritius;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DBM" means the Development Bank of Mauritius, a body corporate
established under the Development Bank of Mauritius Act, No. 10 of 1972;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and DBM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and DBM to be entered into pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02
of this Agreement;
(d)   "Estate" means the industrial estate to be established under the Project;
and
(e)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Parts A, B, C, D, E(ii) and F(ii) of the Project
and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however,
that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or servicer s-upplied
from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits dated April 1972 as revised in October 1972:
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1983, and ending January 1, 2023, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Operation of the Estate
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause Parts A, B, C, D, E(ii) and F(ii)
of the Project to be carried out by DBM, and the rmaining Parts of the Project
to be carried out by the public utilities concerned, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative,
*        public utilities and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limiting or restricting the generality of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) relend the proceeds of the Credit
to DBM under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and DBM upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including the
principal terms set forth in Scheduile 3 to this Agreement, subject to any
amendments thereof which may be agreed upon from time to time with the
Association, and (ii) invest an additional amount equivalent to four million dollars
($4,000,000) in the equity of DBM upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes ci the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrowei shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take and
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable DBM to perform
all the obligations of DBM set forth in the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary


﻿6
Loan Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, if the accounts
and financial statements of DBM for any fiscal year shall show that DBM has
incurred in such fiscal year a loss in operating the Estate in excess of any reserves
which DBM may have accumulated from such operations in previous fiscal years,
the Borrower shall, to the extent of such excess, reimburse DBM for such loss.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Estate, the administration, operations and financial condition of
DBM and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Estate and the administration, operations and financial condition
of DBM.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of.the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed tinder the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   DBM   shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation of DBM under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that DBM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Development Bank of Mauritius Act, No. 10 of 1972, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as, in the


﻿8
judgment of the Association, to materially and adversely affect the ability of DBM
to carry out the covenants, agreements or obligations of DBM under the Project
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of DBM or for the
suspension of its operations.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
DBM have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and DBM, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, DBM and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of DBM in accordance with its terms.


﻿9
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and DBM,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
DBM in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date September 28, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
MINFIN
Port Louis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MAURITIUS
By /s / C. Jesseramsing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿0                                 11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each
Category. The percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed in each Category
shall be 52% of total expenditures.
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent)
I.    Buildings                                            3,500,000
II.   Terracing, roads, sewage                               400,000
treatment plant and
elevated water storage
tank.
111.  Unallocated                                            100,000
TOTAL         4,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in paragraph I above in respect of any
Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage
shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on
account of payments for such taxes.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:


﻿12
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall
be applied to the amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount will be
allocated by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably   determined   that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in paragraph I above, if the
estimate of total expenditures under any Category shall increase and no proceeds
of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals ander such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is an industrial estate to be established at Coromandel, four
miles southwest of Port Louis, to promote industrial investment and the creation
of productive employment opportunities in Mauritius. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:     Land
Acquisition of 60 arpents of land, to be subdivided into 25 plots for
industrial enterprises and one plot for a management and commercial
center.
Part B:     Terracing
The cutting, fill and terracing of Estate land for purposes of
contruction.
Part C:     Buildings
The construction of:
(i)         standard industrial buildings, with an estimated total floor
space of approximately 900,000 square feet, on about 27
arpents of land; and
(ii)        a management and commercial center, with an estimated
floor space of approximately 60,000 square feet, on about
4 arpents of land.
Part D:     Roads
The construction of an internal road network, consisting of a ring road
serving the widest part of the Estate with two extensions for access
from the Mahebourg Highway and the Richelieu Approach Secondary
Road and a third extension to the southwest extremity, all about 23
foot wide and flanked on both sides by 6.5 foot wide sidewalks and
rainwater drainage culverts.


﻿14
Part E:     Sewage
The installation of:
(i)         a collection network of underground piping; and
(ii)        a common sewage treatment plant at the northwest corner
of the Estate.
Part F:     Water
The installation of: (i) external piping to the Estate boundary, and
internal piping for both industrial and sanitary purposes, to meet an
estimated maximum demand of 300,000 gallons per day with a peak
flow of 8 gallons per second, and (ii) an elevated water storage tank.
Part G:     Power
The installation of external and internal facilities to meet an estimated
maximum power demand of 4,000 Kw, including:
(i)         relocation around the Estate of the existing HT lines
(22,000 v.);
(ii)       the laying of an HT line from the transformer station
across the Mahebourg Highway to a control station at
the northeast corner of the Estate;
(iii)      the laying of an HT ring with a series of transformers
(22,000 v. dropped to 400/230 v.) so that each
transformer serves 2 or 3 plots, with LT cables running
from each transformer to individual users; and
(iv)        the laying, parallel with such HT ring, of an LT ring for
public lighting.
Part H:     Telecommunications
The installation of about 200 telephone lines with junction boxes
spaced for each 2 or 3 plots.
Parts E(i), F(i), G and H of the Project will be carried out by the public utilities
concerned and will not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   DBM shall pay interest at the rate of seven and one-fourth per cent (7-1/4%)
per annum upon the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
2.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid by DBM within a period
of twenty (20) years (including a grace period of five (5) years) reckoned
from the date of the first withdrawal.
3.   Principal and interest shall be payable by DBM in the currency of the
Borrower, and the Borrower shall assume all foreign exchange risks.


