CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 411 MAS
Project Agreement
(Coromandel Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 411 MAS
Project Agreement
(Coromandel Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (hereinafter called DBM).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Mauritius (hereinafter called the Borrower), and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit in various
currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but subject to DBM
agreeing to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS DBM, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of DBM
Section 2.01. DBM shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D, E(ii) and F(ii) of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and manage
the Estate, and conduct its operations and affairs, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial, public
utilities and engineering standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Development Bank of
Mauritius Act of 1972.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In carrying out Parts B, C, D, E(ii) and F(ii) of the Project,
DBM shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits dated April 1972 as revised in October 1972.
Section 2.04. (a) DBM shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   DBM: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.05. DBM shall formulate, in consultation with the Association,
by December 31, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Association and DBM) criteria by which acceptability of industrial enterprises as
occupants of the Estate will be determined, as well as Estate building standards,
environmental controls and general regulations.
Section 2.06. (a) DBM undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by DBM to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DBM shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.07. DBM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 2.08. DBM shall ensure that all buildings and facilities included in
the Project, and all works and facilities necessary to the proper and efficient
operation thereof, will at all times be properly and efficiently operated and
adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with sound technical, engineering,
public utilities, administrative and financial practices and standards.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DBM shall
lease the land and buildings in the Estate under model contracts satisfactory to
the Association and at rentals conforming to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.10. DBM shall not expand the area of the Estate by addition of
adjacent land at La Tour unless a decision to undertake such expansion has been
made in consultation with the Association.
Section 2.11. DBM shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DBM shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. DBM shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate records
adequate to record the progress of its operations under the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of DBM with respect
to the Project.
Section 3.02. DBM shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements),
including its separate accounts with respect to the Project, for each fiscal year
audited, by independent auditors acceptable to the ( esociation, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, (b) urnish to the Association, as
soon as available but in any case not later than four months after the end of


﻿6
each such year, certified copies of its audited financial statements for such year
and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and DBM shall otherwise agree, DBM
shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring
of such debt, the consolidated debt of DBM and all its subsidiaries then incurred
and outstanding would exceed three times the consolidated capital and surplus
of DBM and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term "debt" means any debt incurred by DBM or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by DBM or by a subsidiary.
(b)   Wherever reference is made in this Section to the incurring of debt,
such reference shall include any modification of the terms of payment of such
debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement,
on the date and to the extent the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   The term  "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by DBM or by any one or more subsidiaries of DBM or by DBM and
one or more of its subsidiaries.
(d)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by DBM for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
(e)   The term  "consolidated debt of DBM and all its subsidiaries" means
the total amount of debt of DBM and all its subsidiaries, excluding (i) debt owned
by DBM to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to DBM or to any other subsidiary
and (ii) debt referred to in paragraph (f)(ii) of this Section.
(f)   The term    "consolidated  capital and  surplus of DBM    and all
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus


﻿7
and free reserves of DBM and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such
amounts as shall represent equity interests of DBM in any subsidiary, or of any
such subsidiary in DBM or in any other subsidiary, and (ii) the amount of the
Government Loans as shall be repayable after the latest of the dates of all
outstanding maturities of the sub-loans and of the schedules of repayment to the
Borrower in respect of the investments, as determined for the purposes and in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement (DBM Project) entered
into between the Association and DBM on June 23, 1972.
Section 3.04. DBM shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any of its outstanding debt which, in the judgment of the Association,
would materially affect DBM's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. DBM shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Rupees) used in its lending
and borrowing operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and DBM shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and DBM shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the Estate, the administration, operations and
financial condition of DBM and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b)   DBM   shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Estate and the administration,
operations and financial condition of DBM and its subsidiaries, if any.
Section 4.02. The Association and DBM shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 4.03. DBM shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
DBM thereunder shall terminate on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
provided that if the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the aforementioned date, the Association shall promptly notify
DBM of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United State of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
For DBM:
Development Bank of Mauritius
P.O. Box 157
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
DEVBANK
Mauritius
Section 6.02. DBM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of DBM, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by DBM pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
By /s/ C. Jesseramsing
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Rental Return to DBM
(a)   With respect to any lease of land commencing in 1974, a minimum rate
of Rs.10,000 per arpent per year shall be charged.
(b)   With respect to any lease of buildings commencing in 1974, a minimum
rate of Rs. 5 per square foot per year shall be charged.
(c)   With respect to any lease commencing subsequent to 1974, rentals shall be
maintained at levels competitive with other rates in the Port Louis area.
(d)   If at any time DBM shall earn an annual return of less than 10% on its
total capital investment in the Estate, consultations shall be held with the
Association to agree on measures to be taken to remedy such situation.


