PA-54
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
INDIA
October 7, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         = Rs 7.50
Rs 1         = US$0.13
Rs 1,000     = US$133.33
Rs 1,000,000 = US$133,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ft     = 30.5 cm
1 yd     = 3 ft = 91.44 cm
1 ac     = 0.h07 ha
1 gal    = b.5h6 1
1 oz     = 28.3h9 gram
1 lb     = 16 oz = 0.45  kg
1 kg     = 1000 gram = 2.205 lb
1 m ton  = 1000 kg = 2,205 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC ----Agricultural Refinance Corporation
DAA ---- Directorate of Agricultural Aviation
DDAA---Deputy Director of Agricultural Aviation
GOI--- -Government of India
TC-----Training Center



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .... ................. .* ...  ..  ... .. ...     i
I.         INTRODUCTION .......... .............................. .        1
II.       BACKGROUND ......         o..*.......       *. .* . ....           . 1
A.   Agricultural Sector .......................... .t.         1
B.   Plant Protection in Iudia .2......** ....                  2
Programs and Policies .              .               2
Research and Training           .......              3
Legislation .......             00  ..  ..*          3
Agricultural Chemicals             ............      4
III.      AGRICULTURAL AVIATION IN INDIA                     ......        4
A.   Scope for Aerial Application          .      .......       4
B.   The Industry ....S..             ..                .  
GOI Aviation Unit . .                                5
Private Operators..                                  5
Operational Bases.                .                  5
Repairs, Maintenance and Spare Parts                 6
Staffing..                          .. .             6
Status of Private Operators         ...              6
C.   Project Areas, Crops and Spraying Seasons. .               7
IV.  THE PROJECT..  7
A.   General Description .......... ............ 0.              7
B. Detailed Features. .                                         8
Aircraft ..8...    .           ...8
Aircraft Spare Parts                    .     .8
Vehicles and Ancillary Equipment.                     8
Training ....o..  ....  ......                       9
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to India
in November 1969 composed of Messrs. G. von Gontard, T. J. Davis, J. Zarandin,
P. Courbois (IDA) and C. Voss (Agricultural Aviation Consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                       Page No.
VII.      BENEFITS AND JUS       TIFICATION .........................    22
VIII.     RECOMMENDATIONS..        ...           .........   ..        23
ANNEXES
1. Plant Protection in India
2. The Agricultural Aviation Industry
3. Agricultural Applicator Aircraft
4. Training
5.  Estimated Project Costs
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. Credit and Banking System
8. Organization Chart
9. Appraisal and Lending Policies
10. Returns to Aircraft Operators
11. Economic Justification
12. Farmers Benefits
MAP



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA credit to meet
the foreign exchange costs of an agricultural aviation project. The project
ainms at better control of crop pests and diseases through expansion and im-
provement of aerial spraying services. The project would provide suitable
credit to qualified private aviation operators for purchase of fixed and
rotary wing aircraft specifically designed for agricultural work and
strengthen GOI's agricultural aviation unit through fleet renovation and
other measures. Finally, the project would provide training facilities for
agricultural pilots and aircraft engineers, including technical assistance
and overseas training of pilot instructors.
ii.       About 82 agricultural aircraft would be financed under the project,
67 for commercial operation by private companies and 15 for training, demon-
stration and commercial operation of a new Directorate of Agricultural
Aviation (DAA), in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Co-operative and Com-
munity Development. Specialized agricultural equipment, spare parts, vehi-
cles, ground support and safety equipment and aircraft tools would also be
included.
iii.      The project is part of India's plant protection program for the
current Five-Year Plan (1969-74). Increased demand for aerial spraying
services springs from the intensification of Indian agriculture resulting
from increased and more timely irrigation, expanded fertilizer usage and the
introduction and spread of high yielding crop varieties. The same environ-
ment required for high crop yields increases the incidence and severity of
crop pests and diseases. While ground application techniques would continue
-to account for rDst plant protection needs, such methods are, in many cases,
too slow and do not meet field crop requirements. The proposed project
would complement ground techniques by expanding and improving India's agri-
cultural fleet and skilled personnel.
iv.       Total project cost is estimated to be about US$8.8 million, includ-
ing contingencies, 69% of which would be in foreign exchange (US$6.0 million)
to be financed by the proposed IDA credit. Private operators, dealers, com-
mercial banks and GOI would contribute the balance of project costs. In
addition, GOI and state governments would provide budgetary resources for
supporting ground services, pesticides and short-term credit to farmers.
v.        Proceeds from the IDA credit would be made available by GOI to DAA
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC). Credit to private opera-
tors would be provided by the ARC through commercial banks at current com-
mercial rates. DAA would be responsible for technical evaluation and super-
vision of subloans, pre-qualification of aircraft suppliers, coordination
with plant protection agencics, market development and training. Disburse-



- ii -
ment of IDA funds would be against import documentation for imported goods
or audited statements of expenditures. Aircraft procurement would be through
normal trade channels. Adequate numbers of international makes of agricul-
tural aircraft are represented in India and competition among them is keen.
vi.       Although moderate subsidies to farmers would be continued to help
promote aerial plant protection, these would be gradually reduced in line
with the demonstration of the benefits of aerial spraying. Financial returns
to private operators would be between 16X and 29%.
vii.      At full development, the project would help control pests and
diseases over 6 million acres of field crops, mostly rice, wheat, cotton,
groundnuts and sugarcane. This is expected to increase yields and production
of these crops significantly and thereby reduce the need to rely on imports.
The economic rate of return of the project would exceed 100%.
viii.     The project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million.
The borrower would be the GOI and it would assume the foreign exchange risk.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA credit of US$6.0
million to meet the foreign exchange costs of an agricultural aviation project.
The project would be an important part of India's plant protection program
for the current Five-Year Plan (1969-74). At full development, the project
would help control pests and diseases over 6 million acres planted in food-
grains and other crops, about 1.8% of India's total cropped area.
1.02      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first operation in
aerial plant protection. This is an essential custom service for farmers,
including small landholders. In 1969, a project for increased production
of Indian high yielding seed varieties was assisted by IBRD. Expanded
plant protection would further encourage farmers to increase the use of
such seeds. Other agricultural projects, either assisted by IDA or under
consideration, are: in Gujarat State, the Kadana Irrigation Project and a
credit project; in Tamil Nadu, a drainage and irrigation project and a
credit project; in Andhra Pradesh, an irrigation and a credit project; and
in Punjab, a credit project. Over the next several years, these projects
as well as other agricultural development program of GOI and state govern-
ments now underway are expected to raise substantially the need for improved
plant protection services.
1.03      This report is based on information furnished by GOI, as well as
on two technical reports sponsored by the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development in 1964 and 1968. In June 1969, an IDA mission dis-
cussed a possible project with interested agencies in India. In October
1969, the GOI submitted a proposal and in November 1969 an appraisal mis-
sion, composed of Messrs. G. von Gontard, T. J. Davis, J. Zarandin, P.
Courbois (IDA), and C. Voss (Agricultural Aviation Consultant) visited
India.
II. BACKGROUND
A.  Agricultural Sector-/
2.01      Agriculture is vital to the economy of India and will continue to
be for many years to come. Its actual progress, however, has been disappoint-
ing when compared with the country's needs and potential. During most of the
1/   A detailed discussion of the situation and prospects of agriculture
in India is given in: Economic Situation and Prospects of India;
Report No. SA-13a, April 24, 1970.



-2-
last decade, GNP increased at the rate of about 3.5%, but only at 1% per
head annually. Agriculture, the largest industry, generating about half of
GNP, grew at only 3% per annum during this period. While droughts, including
those that occurred in 1965/66 and 1966/67, were partly responsible for this
disappointing performance, the reluctance of planners to give high priority
to agricultural development was of equal significance.
2.02      Since 1965, a higher priority has been given to agriculture in the
country's development strategy. Major efforts have been made to introduce
new technology, increase the availability of farm inputs, and provide eco-
nomic incentives to induce their rapid adoption and use in agriculture. The
response has been encouraging. The introduction of new fertilizer-responsive
foodgrain varieties, in particular wheat, has already contributed to a record
harvest in 1967/68 and again in 1968/69.
2.03      Continued success in raising cereal yields brings self-sufficiency
in food within the reach of India in the 1970's. To achieve this, however,
will require that continued emphasis be placed on research, especially for
new rice varieties, maintenance of prices at a level high enough to encour-
age adoption of modern farming practices, improvements in grain storage and
marketing facilities, increase in the supply and use of irrigation water
and other complementary inputs such as improved seed and fertilizer, more
agricultural credit to facilitate their purchase, and improvements of serv-
ices that will enable the masses of small farmers to adopt the new techno-
logy. Finally, plant protection measures must be brought within reach of
more Indian farmers.
B. Plant Protection in India
2.04      Plant protection is becoming increasingly important in India.  The
number and intensity of crop pests and disease outbreaks rise as a result
of the intensification of agriculture. Increased regional specialization,
stepped up cropping intensity and high levels of moisture and fertility,
needed for high crop yields, encourage the spread of pests and diseases. In
particular, more effective plant protection has become necessary if the high
yielding varieties are to be used extensively and their full potential real-
ized. Farmers are increasingly aware that, without adequate pest control,
investment in high yielding varieties and associated inputs of water, fertil-
izer and labor can be risky. Further details on plant protection are in
Annex 1.
Programs and Policies
2.05      Around 370 million acres of land are cropped each year in India,
about 20% of which currently receives protection through some pest and
disease control. It is proposed to increase the annual coverage gradually
to more than half of the cropped area by the end of the current Five-Year
Plan. This coverage includes seed treatment, field application of chemicals,



-3-
anti-rodent measures and chemical weed control. Intensive and preventive
treatment, involving more than one application per crop in a season, is fore-
seen for all areas sown to high yielding food, commercial and plantation
crops.
2.06      For state plant protection programs, as for agriculture in general,
GOI acts mainly as an adviser and coordinator. GOI's influence on state
programs derives -from-its financial support for development programs of the
states. An estimated Rs 134 million (US$17.9 million) of this support would
be used by the states for plant protection, 30X in grants and 70X in loans,
during the Plan period. GOI expects that states would contribute an equal
amount. These funds, including subsidies, are expected to be used partly
for aerial application work. A number of states have already discontinued
subsidies for pesticides and aerial application costs, except when infesta-
tions must be controlled on an emergency basis.
2.07      High yielding seeds and fertilizer have been successfully intro-
duced in many areas of India by providing supplies, know-how and incentives
to individual farmers, receptive to change. By contrast, all cultivators
in a village or district must treat their fields, if pest control is to be
effective. This calls for a high degree of cooperation and group organiza-
tion that rarely has been achieved without government intervention. Plant
protection services of GOI and the states have adequate qualified staff to
provide overall information on crop pests and diseases but they do not have
the manpower and equipment to forecast and effectively check infestation in
all areas before epidemic proportions are reached. The exceptions are four
selected districts where intensive plant protection progras- are being set
up with Ford Foundation assistance (see Map).
Research and Training
2.08      Research in plant protection is coordinated by the Indian Council
of Agricultural Research and executed by the Indian Agricultural Research
Institute, a number of agricultural universities and other institutes (see
Map). In earlier years, emphasis was on breeding pest- and disease-resistant
crop varieties. Current research programs include increasingly the study
of pest and disease evolution, control measures through chemicals, their im-
pact on the crop environment and application methods. They also include the
diagnosis of crop pests and diseases and the establishment of forecast serv-
ices. Some research schemes are aided by technical assistance agreements.
However, there is urgent need for more research on crop louses due to pests
and diseases, their impact on production and economic implications. Field
officers are trained at the GOI Plant Protection Institute in Hyderabad,
where courses include aspects of aerial application. Several states maintain
similar training facilities that concentrate on specific state problems.
Legislation
2.09      The Insecticide Act of 1968 regulates the manufacture and handling
of insecticides, and specifir rules to implement its provisions are present-
ly being formulated by GOIL  Iso, nearly all states have enacted laws that
permit them to perform preventive and epidemic pest control measures and to
collect costs from farmers through state revenue -ervices.



-4-
Agricultural Chemicals
2.10      Pesticide production in Indi- started in 1952 and has grown with
consumption at about 3% per year. About 30 manufacturers, with an annual
capacity of 36,000 tons, are producing technical chemicals that need to be
mixed with other ingredients. This is being done oy a large number of small
formulators. Production has been erratic due to market conditions -- 12,000
tons in 1965/66, 19,000 tons in 1967/68 and 13,000 tons in 1968/69. Most of
the local production consists of insecticides and fungicides, including or-
ganochlorines of the DDT family. Marketing problems existed in the past due
to absence of collaboration among manufacturers and Indian farmers not being
used to large scale preventive application of pesticides. Demand has been
increasing lately, however, and production in 1970/71 is expected to reach
20,000 tons. Doirastic sales prices of Indian pesticides are competitive with
prices of imported products. There is no import duty on pesticides. IDA's
Sixth Industrial Imports Project Credit (182-IN) includes funds for import
of materials required for domestic production of pesticides. No supply
constraints in chemicals are expected during the project period.
III.  AGRICULTTRAL AVIATION IN INDIA
A. Scope for Aerial Application
3.01      Through aerial application, urgently needed plant protection in
India can be increased in an effective and organized manner. Aerial appli-
cation is a highly versatile and flexible agricultural custom service, appli-
cable in any farming structure provided terrain and cropping patterns are
suitable. In particular, vast numbers of small farm units can benefit from
it. When properly planned, treatment can be given over larger areas more
rapidly from the air than from the ground during critical pest and disease
periods.e Aerial application in India will be concentrated on areas and in
instances most favorable to its use (Annex 2).
3.02      Improved agricultural practices change the ecological balance and
natural checks against crop pests and diseases. Year-round plant hosts for
insects are provided through continued cropping made possible with increased
irrigation and fertilizer use. Further, some new high yielding varieties
are susceptible to previously unknown pasts and diseases. The Indian farm-
er must, therefore, control these pests if high yields are to be achieved.
The use of agricultural chemicals provides the only currently economical
solution to most Indian crop pest problems. Much attention has been focused,
in India as elsewhere, on side effects of pesticides, especially of DDYIs a
long life organochlorine. Use of DDT will be restricted under this project
to destroying pests where shorter lived chemicals are ineffective or unavail-
able. Also, aerial application offers an advantage over ground application
because dosages of active chemical can be calibrated more accurately and less
chemical is needed. Finally, the Insecticides Act of 1968, which GOI pro-
poses to implement rigorously, contains detailed regulations to minimize
hazards from handling and use of pesticides (Annex 1).



- 5 -
3.03      About 35 million acres of cropped land susceptible to pests and
diseases (about 10% of the area under cultivation) would be suitable for and
could benefit from aerial application of plant protection chemicals one or
more times each year. The 1968/69 aerial crop treatment covered only 1.5
million acres (Annex 2, Table 1). Most of the crop pests and diseases des-
cribed in Annex 1 can be efficiently controlled by the application of chem-
icals from the air. Most states have had experience in aerial treatment and
have developed workable operating arrangements that would be the basis for
increased aerial plant protection (Annex 2). There is substantial scope for
extended use of agricultural applicator aircraft in the field of plant pro-
tection in India.
B. The Industry
GOI Aviation Unit
3.04      The GOI Aviation Unit, established in 1957, is part of the Director-
ate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage under the Secretary of Agri-
culture. The unit is well managed and its personnel are highly qualified.
Until a private aerial agriculture industry was established, the unit did
most of the earlier spraying work (Annex 2, Table 2). Plans are to hold
commercial operations at current levels and increase promotional spraying and
method testing. The unit recently purchased three helicopters and intends to
buy a fourth, retire all of its uneconomic fixed wing aircraft and replace
them with modern equipment. The unit is stationed at Safdarjung Airport,
New Delhi, where it has adequate hangar and office space and repair and main-
tenance facilities. GOI intends to upgrade the unit to Directorate of Agri-
cultural Aviation so that it would have adequate operational autonomy and
broader supervisory responsibilities.
Private Operators
3.05      Private agricultural aircraft operators entered the field in 1959.
They covered 4,100 acres at first and by 1968/69 had expanded to 1.2 million
acres, with 30 aircraft owned by eight companies (Annex 2, Table 1). There
will be 17 companies in 1970, including several that are in the process of
formation (Annex 2, Table 3). Acquisitions of aircraft of different makes
have generally been under bilateral arrangements, mainly in the last two
years.
Operational Bases
3.06      Most operators are presently based at New Delhi and Bombay (Map).
Lack of space and accoumodation has become acute in these locations and some
operators may move to other bases. The GOI does not interfere in an operator's
choice of location, which is influenced by availability of technical personnel
and maintenance facilities. The concentration of operators in two or three
regions is not a constraint in rendering prompt aerial service to the customer.
Given two days' reaction time, aircraft may be positioned in any part of India.
Also, since work allocation is mainly through public tenders, there is no



-6-
guarantee that a locally based operator would get an assignment. Airfield
facilities throughout India are fully adeqcuate to provide the necessary oper-
ating bases for an enlarged fleet and to allow decentralization of existing
operations,
Repairs, Maintenance and Spare Parts
3.07      Most operators have basic repair facilities and sufficient tools to
keep their fleets operating. Although slow, their shops have been able to re-
build wrecked aircraft completely with imported components. There are also
several large facilities that do specialized repair and overhaul work, as well
as about 30 other maintenance shops throughout India. While aircraft importers
maintain some stocks of spare parts for their aircraft, spare parts services
need improvement.
Staffing
3.08      The shortage of qualified agricultural pilots is a major problem,
because there is no agricultural flight training facility.  Until recently,
retired pilots from the defense services were available (Annex 2), but they
had no formal agricultural training and only a brief introduction to field
work. This contributed to complaints about the quality of the work and to
accidents due to pilot error. Licensed commercial fixed wing airplane pilots
are available in sufficient numbers but they lack agricultural flight and
ground training. The shortage of helicopter pilots, however, is acute. There
are presently more agricultural helicopters in the country than pilots to fly
them. Similarly, there is a shortage of engineers, particularly those licensed
in helicopter maintenance.
Status of Private Operators
3.09      Most companies are aggressively managed and have demonstrated ability
to operate their aircraft effectively. They have formed a professional asso-
ciation to foster good government and customer relations. Fleet utilization
has improved, despite drought in 1965 and 1966, and delayed budgetary support
by GOI and state governments at the beginning of 1969/70. The industry has
the capacity to achieve greater fleet utilization and the ingredients are
present for further improvement and expansion. All companies are keen to ex-
pand business and have expressed interest in acquiring new aircraft and ancil-
lary equipment.
3.10      The industry is presently operating with funds generated from its
agricultural and non-agricultural business or borrowed from financial insti-
tions, associated companies or individuals. Needs for operating capital
would increase gradually as operations expand, and operators have indicated
that they would draw on the same sources for the necessary additional operat-
ing funds. More details on the industry are in Annex 2.



-7-
C. Project Areas, Crops and Spraying Seasons
3.11      Crop pests and diseases occur throughout India, and operators have
to service demands anywhere in the country (Map). The major activity of the
fleet would be the treatment of epidemics, making it difficult to define
specific project areas. A major shift towards increased preventive treatment
would be possible only after GOI and state plant protection services have
been considerably strengthened with qualified manpower and effective pest
forecast organizations.
3.12      The states of Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and,
to some extent, Mysore, progressed well in employing aircraft in epidemic and
preventive plant protection in past years. They also have worked out satis-
factory programs and budgets for both types of aerial work, have experienced
plant protection personnel, suitable legislation for the organization of
aerial campaigns and cost recovery from farmers, and extensive crop and area
potential for increased aerial spraying. Probably 60% to 70% of the total
acreage sprayed under the project would be in these six states.
3.13      Aerial treatment has been used on many different crops.  Of the
total acres sprayed from the air from 1964 to 1969, about 30% were in food-
grains - mainly rice - and 12% in other fooderops; 15% were in cotton, 19%
in sugarcane and 5% in rubber. The balance was in a variety of other field
crops (Annex 2, Table 2).
3.14      Crops in India are attacked by pests at all seasons.  However,
weather sometimes inhibits aerial operation at the height of the monsoon.
With increased spraying of foodcrops in south India and of cotton in Punjab
and Haryana, a better distribution of aerial spraying activity is expected.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General De8scrip tion
4.01      The proposed project is an important part of India's plant protec-
tion program included in the current Five-Year Plan (1969-74). It aims at
improving and expanding aerial spraying services to Indian farmers, mainly
small holders, over a 3-year period, The project includes:
(a) provision of aircraft, spare parts and ancillary equip-
ment to qualified private aviation operators for fleet
renovation, expansion and operation;
(b) establishment of a Directorate of Agricultural Aviation
(DAA) by GOI and provision of new aircraft, including
spare parts and ancillary equipment to it;



(c) provision of training facilities and programs for agri-
cultural pilots and aircraft engineers, including tech-
nical assistance; and
(d)  promotion and organization of aerial plant protection in
Indian states and evaluation of project performance.
B. Detailed Features
Aircraft
4.02      The project would provide about 82 aircraft - 35 helicopters and
47 fixed wing aircraft, DAA would receive 8 aircraft for flight training;
and 9 would replace uneconomic aircraft, 6 with DAA and 3 with private oper-
ators.  The strength of the commercial fleet woXald be increased from 73 to
138 aircraft. The proposed aircraft acquisition has been linked to the ex-
pected capacity of the training center (paras. 4.06-4.07) and is in line
with GOIt's and operators' demand for new aircraft, based on their fleet ex-
pansion and renovation plans received during appraisal (Annex 2, Table 3).
Aircraft financed under the project would be designed specifically for agri-
cultural work. They would incorporate features to enhance pilot safety,
provide high performance with gross loads, allow easy control during slow
low-altitude flight and resist chemical corrosion. Specifications of agri-
cultural aircraft are detailed in Annex 3.
Aircraft Spare Parts
4.03      Adequate and timely supply of spare parts would be vital for con-
tinued and economic operation of the proposed project fleet. Funds for spare
parts of aircraft imported under the project would be provided as follows:
5% of CIF value at the time of importation; 5% of CIF value in the year fol-
lowing importation; and 10% of CIF value in the year thereafter, since major
routine overhauls are expected to start in the third year of aircraft operation.
See also paragraph 4.20.
Vehicles and Ancillary Equipment
4.04      Personnel and equipment carriers would be required to enhance field
work at the rate of one to two vehicles per aircraft in operation. Based on
this estimate, 102 jeep-type vehicles would be provided. Ancillary equipment
would include safety equipment for pilots; supporting ground equipment for
preparing and loading chemicals and refueling aircraft; specialized aircraft
tools; and additional agricultural aircraft equipment for crop dusting, fer-
tilizer spreading and seeding.



-9-
Training
4.05      The pilot is the key to efficient and successful aerial application.
He must be experienced with his aircraft and know the maneuvers he can per-
form safely and the limit of the load he can carry from short, rough, tea-
porary airstrips; above all, he must know his own and the aircraft's limita-
tions when he is operating at low levels. In addition, he must be trained
in crop recognition, the effect of weather on the application, the use of
chemicals and how to handle them safely; and the layout and organization
for aerial application using markers and flagmen.
4.06    - To increase numbers of pilots and engineers in the fleet and to
improve their skills and competence, a training center would be established
under the proposed DAA. A classroom building would be constructed on govern-
ment land at Safdarjung Airport, New Delhi. Aircraft, vehicles, ancillary
equipment and training aids would be provided, as well as funds to cover train-
ing costs, including costs of staff and operational and maintenance costs of
trainer aircraft. The program would gradually increase pilot numbers to
three pilots per two aircraft of the fleet. Similarly, one engineer would
become available for every two aircraft. When these ratios have been reached,
the annual training program would be paced to provide a constant supply of
trained personnel to maintain fleet efficiency at high standards and allow
fleet expansion after project termination. Further details on training are
given in Annex 4. Assurances have been obtained that pilot and engineer
training programs would be satisfactory to IDA.
Technical Assistance
4.07      To ensure that training is carried out efficiently, two qualified
internationally recruited agricultural pilot instructors would be employed
for the first 12 months to set up the training center and establish curricula
(para. 5.06). In addition, four pilot instructors would receive short-term
overseas training (para. 5.05). Funds for this technical assistance and for
overseas training of instructors would be provided under the project.
Replacement of Aircraft and Overseas Insurance
4.08      The attrition rate of aerial equipment is substantially higher than
that of other agricultural power equipment. The Indian attrition rate is at
present about 7.5 agricultural aircraft, accidentally damaged, per 10,000
flying hours needing major repairs or replacement. The attrition rate should
gradually decline to 5 aircraft per 10,000 flying hours as operation and
efficiency improve. Based on expected attrition rates, the equivalent of
about 25 aircraft may be severely damaged during the first 3 years of project
operation. This would be equivalent to an average annual decrease of spray-
ing capacity by 10-15%. To maintain spraying capacity at the proposed level,
adequate provisions must be made for prompt replacement, in part or in total,
of aerial equipment that might be damaged in possible accidents.



- 10 -
4.09      GOI's aircraft are not insured and Government would replace air-
craft as and when needed. Provision for the estimated replacement need has
been included in the project. Similar arrangements would not be practicable
for private operators and they would be required to continue to insure their
equipment, with 75% of the value insured overseas. In lieu of replacement
of private aircraft, the project includes the provision of foreign exchange
for premiums payable for overseas insurance during the development period.
Assurances have been obtained from GOI that (a) aircraft of DAA damaged or
lost by accident would be promptly replaced; (b) adequate foreign exchange
funds would be provided for overseas insurance of aircraft of private oper-
ators throughout the useful life of such aircraft; and (c) in the event
insurance compensation is paid, GOI would issue promptly as needed the
licenses for import of replacement aircraft.
Project Performance Evaluation
4.10      Aerial application of chemicals is a highly versatile and special-
ized agricultural custom service requiring rapid adjustment to a fast prog-
ressing technology and constantly changing pest patterns. Scientific study
of the impact of the project, based on sample studies in project areas, would
be essential for adjusting operations to changing conditions and for planning
further development of aerial plant protection after project termination.
There are several qualified research institutes and universities in India
which could execute the studies. Assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that the GOI would arrange for one or more qualified institutions
to carry out surveys of the development of aerial application, to keep dev-
elopment and cost structure under review, to identify constraints, to propose
improvements, and to help prepare progress reports required by the Associa-
tion.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
Cost Estimates
4.11      Total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated at
about Rs 65.8 million (US$8.8 million), of which Rs 45.2 million (US$6.0 mil-
lion) would be in foreign exchange. This does not include costs of pesticides,
labor and other recurrent expenditures for aerial protection services by the
GOI and the states. Project costs are summarized in the following table. For
further details, see Annex 5.



- 11 -
Rs(thousands)          US$(thousands)       X
Forgn.
Item             Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total  Exch.
A. Aircraft                2,307  26,573  28,880    308   3,543  3,851    92
B. Vehicles and Equipment 3,006       753   3,759    400      101    501    20
C. Replacement of Air-
craft and Overseas
Insurance               2,095   7,971  10,066    279   1,063  1,342    79
D. Aircraft Spare Parts      159   5,315   5,474      21      709    730    97
E. Training and Studies   4,446      483   4,929    593        64    657      9
F. Working Capital
Increment               6,719       -   6,719    896         -    896     -
Sub-total            18,732  41,095  59,827  2,497   5,480  7,977    69
G. Contingency (10%)       1,873   4,110   5,983    250       548    798    69
Total Project Cost  20,605  45,205  65,810  2,747   6,028  8,775    69
4.12      Cost estimates for capital items are based on average manufacturers'
prices. Aircraft costs are based on CIF and local transport costs and in-
clude air freight for helicopters and sea freight for fixed wing aircraft.
Costs of constructing and equipping the training center are based on actual
figures for similar government facilities; costs of the training operation
reflect present government pay scales and actual current costs of operation
and maintenance of trainer aircraft, vehicles and other training activities.
Salaries and allowances quoted for technical assistance instructors are ade-
quate to induce qualified and experienced personnel to live and work in New
Delhi.



- 12 -
Financing
4.13      The project would be financed as follows:
IDA Contribution
Project Cost                (Foreign Exchange Cost)
Private
Comm.  Entre-          Through Through Through
DAA    ARC   Banks  preneurs Total   DAA       ARC      GOI   Total
--R-  :T0…Rs'000 ----------
DAA:
Aircraft     4,660    -        -             4,660 4,632        -            4,632
Vehicles
and Equip-
ment          436    -       -                436   157       -               157
Sub-total  5,096    -            -         5,096 4,789       -             4,789
Provision
for Aircraft
Replacement 1,725    -       -              1,725 1,715       -             1,715
Training and
Studies     4,929    -       -              4,929   483       -               483
Total     11,750    -       -        -    11,750 6,987       -             6,987
Private
Operators:
Aircraft      -      21,941 2,279      -    24,220    -   21,941            21,941
Vehicles
and Equip-
ment          -        596 2,727      -     3,323    -       596              596
Working Cap-
ital Incre-
ment          -       -    2506   4,213   6,719    -         _         -     -
Sub-total   -      22,537 7,512   4,213  34,262    -   22,537         -   22,537
Provision
for Aircraft
Insurance    -        -      -      8,341   8,341    -        -    6,256   6,256
Total       -      22,537 7,512  12,554  42,603    -   22,537   6,256  28,793
Aircraft
Dealers:
Aircraft
Spare
Parts        -        -      -      5,474   5,474    -        -    5,315   5,315
Contingency   1,175   2,254   751   1,803   5,983   699   2,254   1,157   4,110
Grand Total  128                             65,810 7 686  24,791  12,728
Grand Total
in US$'000   1,723          1102 2644   8775 1025   3306               697   6,028
Percentage
of Project
Cost           20       38     12      30     100    12       38       19      69
Percentage
of IDA
Credit               -          -       -        -    17      55       28     100



- 13 -
The IDA credit of US$6.0 million (Rs 45.2 million) would cover the total
foreign exchange cost of the project, estimated at 69% of total project
cost of about US$8.8 million (Rs 65.8 million). The credit would be made
to GOI, which would assume the foreign exchange risk.
4.14      GOI would re-lend US$3.3 million (Rs 24.8 million) of the IDA
credit to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) at the current lend-
ing rate of 5-1/2% interest per annum and at the official rate of exchange
for 11 years, including a 4 year grace period (see projected cash flow,
Annex 7, Table 3). ARC would on-lend these funds at an interest rate of 7%
to the commercial banks which, in turn, would make the individual loans to
private operators. Commercial banks would supplement the ARC funds from
their own resources to cover loan commitments. The current commercial banks'
lending rates are 8-1/2 to 9-1/2%.
4.15      Of the rest of proceeds of the IDA credit, DAA would use US$1.0
million (Rs 7.7 million) to finance the foreign exchange component of its
aircraft and the training program. Assurances have been obtained from GOI
that these funds would be made available to DAA during the project period
and that in addition adequate GOI funds would be provided for training.
4.16      The remainder of the IDA credit (US$1.7 million) would cover the
foreign exchange costs of spare parts to be stocked by dealers and the pre-
miums for overseas insurance payable by private operators (see para. 4.09).
This portion of the IDA Credit would not be on-lent to ARC. It would remain
with GOI and help to defray the initial cost of preparing and implementing
spraying programs (see para. 5.12).
4.17      Phasing of project expenditures would be as follows (Annex 5,
Appendix A):
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Total
- - - - - Rupees (thousands) - - - - -
Local Cost                       5,407      7,849       7,350      20,606
Foreign Exchange Cost
(IDA Contribution)            8,451      15,965      20,788     45,204
Total                     13,858      23,814      28 138     65,810
- - - - - - -US$ (thousands)- - - - - - -
Local Cost                         721      1,046         980       2,747
Foreign Exchange Cost
(IDA Contribution)            1,127       2,129       2,772      6,028
Total                      1 848       3 175       3,752      8 775



- 14 -
D. Procurement
4.18      Agricultural applicator aircraft, presently not produced in India,
would be imported, complete with spraying equipment. The international mar-
ket for these goods is highly competitive. Two helicopter and eight fixed
wing aircraft makes from four Bank group member countries (Federal Republic
of Germany, New Zealand, United States of America, Yugoslavia) have well
established dealerships in India and others have made arrangements to demon-
strate their aircraft with the intention to enter the market. Local compe-
tition among established importers is satisfactory and should increase fur-
ther as newcomers establish dealerships. As for most agricultural credit
type projects, procurement of aircraft under international competitive bid-
ding would not be suitable because of the difficulty of centralizing and
standardizing requirements of private operators. Normal trade channels are
expected to meet effectively individual private operators' preferences for
makes that have been proved satisfactory under Indian conditions and which
pilots and engineers know how to operate and service.
4.19      Aircraft procurement would be based on GOI's and operators' demands
for makes and models made available by suppliers prequalified by DAA. Pre-
qualification would be based on proposals obtained through public advertise-
ment, including aircraft specifications (Annex 3), spare parts, after-sales
service, and shipping arrangements. After approval of subloans, ARC would
request GOI to issue import licenses to private operators, who would be
responsible for the importation of aircraft. Aircraft purchases by DAA
would be the responsibility of a procurement committee, including represen-
tatives of the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture and the Directorate of
Civil Aviation and Supplies and Disposals. Assurances have been obtained
from GOI that procurement of aircraft would be as set out in this paragraph.
4.20      Aircraft suppliers under the project would be required to organize
spare parts inventories, either in or out of bonds, proportionate to the num-
ber of project aircraft in service. On recommendation of the DAA, suppliers
would be issued import licenses. Dealers and makers would be responsible
for timely importation, and finance would be through dealers' funds or com-
mercial bank credit. Imported spare parts would be supplied to project par-
ticipants, and sales and inventories would be checked regularly by DAA.
4.21      Imported ancillary equipment would be procured through existing
channels. Overseas suppliers are well established in India, ensuring a satis-
factory degree of international competition through local procurement.
4.22      On previous importations financed by bilateral aid in India, pro-
curement of aircraft, aircraft spare parts and ancillary equipment was subject
to delays because GOI failed to issue promptly necessary import licenses.
Requests for items to be imported were submitted to lengthy and repeated
examinations to determine if such items could be manufactured in India. As-
surances have been obtained during negotiations that import licenses for air-
craft, aircraft spare parts and ancillary equipment would be issued on re-
commendation of ARC, for private operators' requirements; of the government
procurement committee for DAA requirements; or of DAA for spare parts.



- 15 -
E. Disbursement
4.23      Proceeds of the IDA credit of US$6.0 million (Rs 45.2 million)
would be disbursed on the evidence of supporting documents, showing the CIF
cost of imported aircraft, aircraft spare parts and ancillary equipment at
the port of entry. Disbursements for foreign exchange costs of training,
aircraft replacement for DAA and overseas insurance premiums would be made
against certified statements of foreign exchange expenditures and supported
by bills and evidence of payment thereof. ARC disbursements, through comr
mercial banks, to private operators would be made over 3 years. Allowing
for possible delays, IDA disbursements for the project is expected to cover
3-1/4 years. Quarterly disbursement estimates are in Annex 6.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management and Training
Directorate of Agricultural Aviation
5.01      The GOI proposes to set up a separate Directorate of Agricultural
Aviation (DAA), which would take over staff, equipment and ground facilities
of the GOI aviation unit (para. 3.04). The Director of DAA would report to
the Secretary of Agriculture, GOI. The objectives and responsibilities of
DAA would be: control of locust invasions, aerial spraying demonstrations,
testing and improvement of aerial equipment and work, advice to government
and the industry, coordination of aerial programs and supervision of the
industry. To the extent that its other obligations permit, DAA would also
engage in commercial plant protection in areas neglected by the private sec-
tor under terms similar to those obtained for private operators (para. 5.17).
New responsibilities of DAA under the project would be to train pilots and
engineers, arrange pre-qualification of aircraft suppliers, and provide con-
sulting services to ARC for the technical and operational appraisal and super-
vision of private operators participating in the lending program (para. 4.14).
The signing of the credit documents would be subject to GOI setting up the
proposed DAA.
Training Center
5.02      A Training Center (TC) would be established within DAA to organize
and manage training courses in agricultural aviation for pilots and engineers
and refresher courses for both (Annexes 4 and 8). The head of TC would be
the Deputy Director of Agricultural Aviation (DDAA), appointed by the Sec-
retary of Agriculture. Coordination of activities between TC and other
departments, directorates, the Director General of Civil Aviation 1/, ARC
and the industry would be through the Director of DAA.
1/   He is the licensing authority for civil aviation personnel and aircraft,
and supervisor of flight activities and administrator of ground facil-
ities.



- 16 -
Staff
5.03      Tne Government intends to fill key positions in TC with experienced
personnel of GOI's aviation unit or retired flight personnel of the services.
The DDAA would be a qualified instructor pilot, preferably with rotary and
fixed wing aircraft licenses, who has had operational and administrative ex-
perience in agricultural work and a good knowledge of problems and techniques
of plant protection. Under the authority of the Director of DAA, he would have
full responsibility for training and would assist DAA in executing new project
responsibilities (para. 5.01). The effectiveness of the credit would be
subject to GOI appointing the Director of DAA and a Deputy Director of DAA
in charge of training satisfactory to the Association.
5.04      The chief flight instructor would have qualifications similar to
the DDAA and his major responsibility would be the organization and super-
vision of flight training. The chief ground instructor, preferably an ex-
pilot of the agricultural fleet, would be experienced in teaching aviation-
oriented ground subjects and would Plan and execute courses.  Finally, the
chief engineer instructor would be a qualified and licensed aviation engineer,
experienced in teaching pilots and engineers and inspecting and overseeing
the field maintenance and complete overhaul of rotary and fixed wing appli-
cators and their agricultural accessories.
5.05      Further, seven flight instructors, one engineer and one agriculture
ground instructor would assist the chief instructors and have similar quali-
fications. Four flight instructors would be given short-term overseas train-
ing in agricultural aviation in accordance with training programs agreed upon
between GOI and IDA. The agriculture ground instructor would be a graduate
in agricultural sciences, specialized in plant protection and qualified in
teaching. Other staff, such as aviation engineers and aircraft maintenance
and other personnel, would be available in sufficient numbers. Assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that overseas training programs of
flight instructors would be satisfactory to IDA.
Technical Assistance
5.06      The TC would be assisted initially by two internationally recruited
instructor pilots (para. 4.07), who would provide the requisite expertise in
establishing agricultural flight courses and help to improve the proficiency
of TC's flight instructors. They would report to the DDAA. One would be
specialized in helicopter and the other in fixed wing pilot training and both
would have extensive experience in agricultural flying. Assurances have
been obtained during negotiations that qualifications of technical assistance
personnel and conditions of their employment would be satisfactory to IDA.



- 17 -
B. Lending Channels and Procedures
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
5.07      The ARC (Annex 7) would be the refinancing institution of commercial
banks and would have overall responsibility for financial appraisal and super-
vision standards for subloans, and the administration, disbursement and re-
covery of IDA funds under the lending program to private operators (para. 4.14).
ARC has recently increased its staff and would be capable of handling the re-
financing operation. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that
a qualified senior officer within ARC would be entrusted with the responsi-
bility for the lending program throughout its life.
Commercial Banks
5.08      Commercial banks would be the primary lending agencies for private
operators. They would assume the default risk and would be responsible for
financial assessment and security arrangements for loans to private operators.
As for past aircraft loans, operators would have to mortgage the aircraft and
assign aircraft insurance policies. Commercial banks would supervise sub-
loans and would report to ARC and DAA any measures they propose against
possible defaulters.
On-Lending Policies and Procedures
5.09      Each subloan would be individually appraised and the appraisal pro-
cedure would involve ARC, DAA and commercial banks. Loan applications received
from private operators by commercial banks would be assessed by them and for-
warded to ARC and DAA for review and approval. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that ARC, assisted by DAA for technical and operational
assessments, would work out and implement appropriate appraisal methods and
arrangements for supervision of subborrowers (Annex 9).
5.10      Interest rates under the project would be 5-1/2% GOI to ARC, the
current government rate for on-lending to commercial banks; 7% ARC to commer-
cial banks; and about 8-1/2% to 9-1/2% commercial banks to private operators,
the current rates charged by banks on aircraft loans. Terms of subloans
would be fixed in accordance with operators' repayment ability. Anticipated
loan terms may range from 7 to 9 years, on average 8 years, including a grace
period of 4 years (Annex 10, Appendixes A to D).
C. Operating Arrangements
Aerial Spraying Programs
5.11      Aerial application of chemicals for pest and disease control in
crops would be the major anticipated work under the project. Other agricul-
tural work which is presently being tested is likely to increase and may
include some application of solid and liquid fertilizer. Occasional mosquito
control by health authorities could be an additional activity of commercial



- 18 -
aircraft. As indicated in paragraph 3.12, a major portion of the aerial
spraying planned under the project is expected to be in the states of Tamil
Nadu, Mysore, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab. To attain satisfac-
tory fleet utilization, annual aerial plant protection programs and budgetary
provisions would be necessary for those states.
5.12      These annual programs would specify crops, acreage, districts, sea-
sons, availability of state funds, financial support from GOI, subsidy poli-
cies, legal implications, organization of cost recovery from farmers and res-
ponsibilities of the industry. GOI has submitted to IDA satisfactory spray-
ing programs in the above-named states for the first project year. These
would be models for planning aerial spraying programs in subsequent years.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that GOI would continue
to assist states in drawing up annual spraying programs, and that GOI would
use its best efforts to ensure that all funds required for the effective
implementation of such programs would be made available.
Execution of Aerial Spraying
5.13      Based on a state's annual aerial spraying program, the state depart-
ment of agriculture would assist local authorities in preparing detailed spray-
ing schedules for districts or similar administrative units. It would bulk
sprayorders and call for proposals and cost quotations from private operators
through public tender. Based on these bids, the department would negotiate
spraying contracts with individual operators. Commercial spraying by govern-
ment aircraft would be arranged through direct negotiation with clients. A
satisfactory model agreement, laying down conditions for spraying work, res-
ponsibilities of operators and customers, mode of payment and possible penal-
ties has been prepared by GOI and would be used under the project. The spray-
ing agreement with operators would be between the state department of agricul-
ture on behalf of all interested local authorities, or directly between oper-.
ators and local bodies, growers' cooperatives or other contracting parties.
5.14      Since large areas of crops are necessary to justify aerial appli-
cation, local authorities must group contiguous landowners together to form
spraying units. Generally, operations are organized around village panchayats
(village councils). The panchayats forward resolutions and requirements to
panchayat unions (at district level) which request that the Department of
Agriculture contract with aerial operators on behalf of the panchayats re-
questing the service.
5.15      Responsibilities of state and local authorities would include the
provision of field landing strips and helicopter pads; detailed field maps;
qualified supervising personnel, flagmen and loaders; chemicals and diluents
at loading sites; specification of acre application dosages of chemicals
according to crop and pest; and payment of operators upon satisfactory com-
pletion of the contracted work. Operators would be responsible for provid-
ing aircraft, including spraying and loading equipment, fuel and lubricants,
and qualified pilots and field maintenance services at the times and locations
laid down in spraying agreements.



- 19 -
Acre Rates and Cost Recovery
5.16      Rates of aerial application per acre for farmers' crops are currently
set by GOI at Rs 10 per acre for helicopter work and Rs 8 per acre for fixed
wing aircraft work. They have been based on 1967/68 costs and prices of equip-
ment, spare parts, aircraft insurance and operation, and other costs in con-
sultation with the industry. They are at present profitable to operators.
However, to assure viability of fleet operation, aerial application rates
would need continued adjustment to changing costs and prices. Assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that maximum rates of aerial applica-
tion set by GOI for comuercial spraying of farmers' crops would be reviewed
in consultation with the industry, and, as necessary, adjusted from time to
time.
5.17      Presently, the GOI aviation unit charges acre rates that are below
the rates set by GOI. These do not reflect actual spraying costs. Assurances
have, therefore, been obtained during negotiations that in future, all govern-
ment rates for aerial work would be no less than those set for private oper-
ators.
5.18      Under state plant protection or land improvement legislation, costs
of aerial spraying can be recovered from farmers through state revenue serv-
ices (para. 2.09). In some regions, and for crops such as cotton and sugar-
cane, it is possible to collect from farmers in advance of spraying, or
through cooperative services thereafter. Costs should include chemical costs,
spraying costs, interest of funds advanced by state or local authorities and
costs for landing strip construction and ground services. Assurances have
been obtained during negotiations that GOI would ensure that, except for cases
where subsidy is required to encourgage farmers' participation, acre rates
charged to farmers for commercial services would reflect the full costs of
aerial spraying services.
D. Accounts and Audit
Accounts and Records
5.19      DAM would maintain up-to-date records for the project.  Its own
operations under the project would be budgeted and recorded separately so as
to be easily identifiable. Details of ARC's operations under the project
would also be recorded separately and subsidiary accounts and statements
would give the position of participating commercial banks as well as interest,
commissions and direct expenses paid, or earned, under the project. Partici-
pating commercial banks would maintain appropriate accounts showing the status
of subloans.



- 20 -
Audit
5.20      Accounts of DAA would be certified by the Accountant General of GOI.
This would permit adequate control of DAA's operations. Assurances to this
effect have been obtained during negotiations.
5.21      ARC is liable to control by the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India, who may examine its accounts. Further, ARC is under the constant su-
pervision of the Reserve Bank of India and also employs qualified chartered
accountants, presently Messrs. K. S. Ayiar and Co., Bombay, who would be
satisfactory to the Association. Assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that ARC's independent auditors would audit and certify accounts
and statements of the project.
5.22      Audit of comercial banks by independent auditors is compulsory
under the new Bank Companies Act, 1969, and commercial banks would have to
furnish ARC with audited statements of operations under the project annually.
Private operators would furnish their financial institutions with an audited
statement showing a complete inventory of aircraft, equipment and spares,
indicating their book value and estimated market value and making a distinc-
tion between goods financed under the project and others. Assurances have
been obtained from ARC that subsidiary loan agreements would include covenants
requiring cormercial banks and private operators to maintain appropriate
project accounts, which would be audited and certified by independent auditors.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES AND OPERATING RETURNS
A. Production and Prices
Acreage
6.01      The proposed project would increase the annual gross area treated
by aerial methods from 1.5 to 6.3 million acres (1.8% of India's total cropped
area) as follows:
Year 5
Aircraft         1968/69   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    and later
---Acres (millions) -------------------
Rotary                     -        1.4       1.8      2.5       3.0        3.2
Fixed Wing                 -        1.4       1.8      2.4       2.9        3.1
Total               1.5       2.8       3.6      4.9      5.9         6.3
M_wx     _     ~                       ===       ===
Incremental acreage would result from increased numbers of aircraft; increased
annual spraying hours per aircraft and acres sprayed per hour through improved
training of pilots, aircraft engineers and field officers, better organization
and management; and improved market promotion. Assumptions of fleet growth
and efficiency are discussed in Annexes 3, 10 and 11.



- 21 -
Farm Production
6.02      Expected incremental crop yields due to aerial plant protection were
based on response data of traditional crop varieties to ground treatment. These
were adjusted to reflect greater effectiveness of aerial over ground treatment
due to more even application of chemicals, better timing of pest control and
coverage of large contiguous areas checking re-infestation, and, greater yield
response of high yielding seeds to plant protection. Yield estimates are
conservative and are detailed in Annex 11. Increased acreage sprayed from
the air would involve: foodcrops about 55% (rice, 30%; wheat, 7%; sorghum,
8%; groundnut, 10%); fibrecrops, mainly cotton, 25%; sugarcane, 14%; and
other crops, 6% (potato, 1% and rubber, 5%).
Prices
6.03      Commodity prices in farm models are based on prevailing Indian
averages. Prices for economic evaluation are current CIF values, held constant
throughout project life. Details on commodity price assumptions are in
Annexes 11 and 12. Cost of aerial application in returns to aircraft oper-
ators and farmers are current rates set by GOI (para. 5.16). Based on
prevailing chemical prices and recommended field dosages, an average
chemical cost of Rs 10 per acre has been used.
B. Farm Benefits
6.04      Expected benefits to farmers are based on farm models comparing
aerial plant protection with no plant protection and with plant protection
by ground methods (Annex 12). These models take into account costs of aerial
application of chemicals, harvesting, storing and handling additional farm
output, and cost savings from replacing ground treatment. As shown below,
the expected returns to farmers would be substantial and would therefore
provide sufficient incentive for use of aerial plant protection services.
Aerial Treatment             Aerial Treatment
Over No  Treatment      Instead of Ground Treatment
South        North           South          North
India        India           India          India
(5-acre     (10-acre         (5-acre        (10-acre
farm)        farm)           farm)           farm)
… - - - - - - - - - Rupees - - - - - - - - - …    - -
Increments in:
Gross Revenue            1,430         1,966              339            473
Cost                        414           605              31             43
Net Profit               1,016         1 361              308            430
Net Profit per Acre 1/       71            22              22             22
Ratio of Incremental
Profit to Aerial
Spraying Cost              3.7           3.3             1.1            1.1
1/   Due to multiple applications for some crops, like paddy and cotton, the
effective number of acres sprayed per farm would be: 14.25 acres for
the 5-acre farm and 21.50 acres for the 10-acre farm.



- 22 -
C. Returns to Aircraft Operators
6.05      Existing and new firms of aircraft operators would participate in
the project. To determine incentives to existing operators, the return on
investment in one additional aircraft has been estimated. For a helicopter
or for a fixed wing aircraft, the rate of return would exceed 26%. Total
annual work hours per aircraft are most likely to fluctuate. Cutting work
hours by 5%, 10% and 20% would reduce the rate of return from over 26% to
23%, 20% and 17%, respectively. Details of rates of return and break-even
analysis appear in Annex 10. These returns explain the interest shown by
existing firms in the project.
6.06      To estimate the financial viability of new firms, two models were
used, representing the range of expected sizes of such firms under the project:
a firm owning three helicopters and three fixed wing aircraft and a firm with
five of each type of aircraft. Rates of return on total assets would be: 12.2%
for the 6-aircraft firm and 18.4% for the 10-aircraft model. Assuming that
all fixed assets are financed from equal amounts of equity capital and long
term debt, returns on owners' equity would be around 16% for the small firm
and 29% for the large firm. Average returns are satisfactory and should en-
courage continued growth of the industry. Details of assumed operations, pro-
jected balance sheets, statements of income and sources and application of
funds are in Annex 10.
D. Government Revenue Generation
6.07      The project would generate import duty revenues of about Rs 2.6
million in the project development period.  Aircraft operators would contrib-
ute over Rs 20 million incremental revenues in income tax to GOI over the
project's life. Sales taxes on aero-gasoline would gradually increase rev-
enue to about Rs 0.35 million per year at full development.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Major project benefits would arise from higher crop yields on farms
receiving aerial plant protection. Farms receiving aerial treatment were
compared to farms receiving no plant protection and those receiving plant
protection by ground application. The expected economic rate of return of
the project would exceed 100% (Annex 11). If only half of expected benefits
should materialize due to incremental yields falling short of expectations
or acreage treated shifting to low benefit crops, the economic rate of return
would still be about 44%. The use of aerial pest control protects farmers'
investments against crop losses and leads to better utilization of complemen-
tary inputs such as improved seeds, fertilizer, water and others. The com-
bination of relatively low cost aerial pest control with existing farmers'
investments underlies the high rate of return on project investments.



- 23 -
7.02      The project would strengthen an essential component of India's new
agricultural strategy aiming at rapid technological change in rural areas.
With the possibility of treating large contiguous areas simultaneously, the
establishment of effective aerial spraying services under the project is
likely to yield substantial benefits to small and large farmers alike. With-
in the agricultural aviation industry, the project would give employment to
different groups of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers, and provide
valuable training and professional experience to operators, pilots, mainte-
nance engineers and field officers for further expansion of the industry
after project termination.
7.03      Most of the crops benefited are now being imported.  Assuming that
half of incremental output generated by the project would have to be imported
without the project, India's gross foreign exchange savings would be at least
US$1.3 million annually at full development. The project would play an im-
portant role in the country's overall program of achieving self-sufficiency
in foodgrains and other field crops and make a major contribution to India's
agricultural economy.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The project would be an important part of India's plant protection
program, aimed at strengthening and expanding aerial spraying services to
small farmers. The project is technically feasible. The financial rates of
return to private operators and farm benefits indicate that the project is
financially attractive. The economic rates of return are satisfactory.
8.02      Agreements were reached with the Government on the following
principal points during negotiations:
(a)  adequate foreign exchange funds would be provided for
overseas insurance of aircraft of private operators throughout
the useful life of such aircraft; and in the event
compensation is paid, GOI would issue promptly as needed
the licenses for import of replacement aircraft (para. 4.09);
(b)  satisfactory arrangements would be made to carry out per-
formance studies of the project (para. 4.10);
(c)  two internationally recruited flight instructors would be
employed to assist initially the training program; and
their qualifications and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.06);
(d)  continued assistance would be given by GOI to state
governments to prepare annual spraying programs; and GOI
would use its best efforts to ensure that all funds
required for the effective implementation of such programs
be made available (para. 5.12);



- 24 -
(e) acre rates charged by government aircraft to clients
for commercial application would be no less than 4hose
set for private operators (para. 5.17); and costs of
commercial aerial services to farmers would be based
on the full cost of application, except for cases
where subsidy is required to encourage farmers' parti-
cipation (para. 5.18).
8.03      The signing of the credit documents would be subject to GOI set-
ting up the proposed DAA (para. 5.01).
8.04      In addition to the customary provisions for effectiveness of the
IDA credit, the appointment of the Director of DAA and a Deputy Director
of DAA (para. 5.03), both satisfactory to IDA, would also be conditions
of effectiveness.
8.05      With the assurances obtained, the project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of US$6.0 million.
October 7, 1970



ANNEX 1
rIDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Plant Protection in India
Introduction
1.        The recent breakthrough in food production in India has been
possible because of the introduction of high yielding crop varieties and
associated technology. More and more farmers are adopting these varieties
and new cultural practices, and more fertilizers and water are used to
exploit the high yield potential. When more fertilizer and water are given
to a higher plant population, there is always a danger of more intense
attacks by diseases and pests. tJWhen attempts are made to increase food
production, there is a tendency to cultivate only new varieties, sometimes
only a single one, over large contiguous areas.  This poses the danger of
sudden outbreaks of epidemics of diseases and pests. This annex high-
lights the crop disease and pest problems in India in the context of the
new technology.
Use of Agricultural Chemicals
2.        By shifting to high yielding varieties of rice, wheat, corn,
cotton and other crops an unnatural, but necessary, situation has been
created on Indian farms. Cultivation of improved crops on large scale
provides favorable conditions for insects and plant diseases. The increase
in pests and diseases that follows could lose the struggle for increased
agricultural production. It is, therefore, necessary to control insects
and diseases to keep the ecological mechanism working in favor of the
farmer. For most pest problems, the use of chemicals provides the only
currently economic solution to help India become more self-reliant in
agricultural production.
3.        The use of pesticides has always presented problems.  Their use
creates two types of hazards (a) safety in handling and (b) long life
residues which build up in animal and human tissue. Indian workers are
aware of the first problem and dangers of spillage and skin contacts are
minimized, by continuing training and information programs. The second
problem must be met by selecting pesticides that have no long residual
effects. DDT, a long life chemical would be used relatively little. BHC,
dieldrin, aldrin, endrin, carbaryl, malathion and parathion would predom-
inate. DDT would be used only for those crops where other shorter lived
chemicals are ineffective or unavailable. GOI through the enforcement of
the Insecticide Act, 1968 attempts to minimize hazards from both the
handling and long-range use of pesticides, (see page 7).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Pest and Diseases in High Yielding Varieties
4.        In July, the GOI issued a special stamp comemorating the wheat
revolution in the coumtry. The production of wheat went from 11.4 million
tons in 1966 and 12.3 million tons in 1964/65, the earlier year of record
production, to 16,6 million tons. This meant almost a 50% increase over
1966 totals and 33% over the 1964/65 record production.  Much of this
achievement has been attributed to the cultivation of new high yielding
wheat varieties.
5.        Breeders did their best to breed pest and disease resistant
and tolerant strains, Nevertheless, all newi wheat varieties have disease
and pest problems.  The first two high yielding wheat varieties, introduced
into India from IMIexico in 1964, showed susceptibility to loose smut by
1966.  At some locations, more than 30% of loose smut was recorded in
farmers fields decreasing crop yield. Consequently, the two initial
varieties had to be replaced by other varieties, claimed to be disease
resistant, especially to rust,  However, by 1968, it became clear that,
in certain regions, these were susceptible to brown rust and black stem
rust. These new varieties are being planted more and more each year,
likely to contribute to a rust epidemic or some other disease outbreak.
Another factor, likely to contribute to increased crop diseases is the
delayed planting date of high yielding wheat varieties. Crops planted
in October often escape infection, but the new varieties planted in the
middle of November and onwards may be quite vulnerable.
6.        Further, the lush growth of high yielding varieties attracts more
insect pests.  Thrips has become a threat to high yielding wheats, which
if infested in early stages, are set back in growth. If no control measures
are adopted, yield losses could be serious, Other pests that attack new
varieties are the cutworm, climbing cutworm and the shoot fly.
7.        Rice is the most important fooderop of India and is a staple of
more than half the population. The crop is groun extensively and covers
about 84 million ac,  According to an estimate in 1968/69, 8.5 million ac
were in high-yielding varieties of rice, and by 1973/74, the area should
increase to about 25 million ac.
8.        The era of high yielding rice varieties began in India with the
introduction of Taichung Native-l. The variety caught attention of the
farmers because of high yields which were two to three times over the tall
local types. This strain was soon followed by another high yielding variety,
IR-8. In July 1966, a half ton of IR-8 was airfreighted from the Phillipines
for seed increase, and one year later, India had 25O,OOO ac planted with
this variety.
9.        The major disease problem the Taichung Native-l faced was the
bacterial blight. It is known to cause yield reductions of 20 to 30% after
moderate infections and over 30% after severe ones. Bacterial blight was
never widespread until Taichung Native-l was introduced in most of the



AlSEX 1
Page 3
rice-growing states, Now the disease has become endemic all over the
rice-growing areas of the country0  A correlation, however, has already
been established--the higher the nitrogen application, which is necessary
to get more yields, the greater the susceptibility to bacterial blight.
10.       IR-8 has withstood bactelial blight better than Taichung Native-
le Though the incidence is fairly commonp it is much less severe than on
Taichung Native-iL  False smut has also been reported on IR-8.  But the
disease affecting IR-8 most, particularly in north India, is brown spot.
*hiile IR-8 gives high yields, withstands other diseases like blast and,
to some extent bacterial blight, it is quite susceptible to brown spot.
11.       Viral diseases of rice also have to be watched carefully.  Yellow
dwarf has been observed in south India, Out of the three leafhopper species
that are vectors of yellow dwarf, two are conmonly found. Another viral
disease, tungro, has been observed at some locations. The leafhopper that
transmits tungro virus is common in most parts of India. With susceptible
varieties like Taichung Native-1 and IR-8 available, it would not be
surprising if tungro occurred increasingly.
12.       Taichung lNative-1 and IR-8, while moderately tolerant to stem
borers, are susceptible to the rice gall midge and leafhoppers. A disease
and insect survey was conducted in 1967 and revealed that IR-8 and Taichung
Native-i were more heavily infested than vere local varieties.  Infesta-
tions were severe enough in several fields to cause up to 80% yield reduc-
tions, The pest was found in almost all the south and southeastern Indian
states.  The survey team also found white-black planthoppers and brown
planthoppers to be more numerous than others, Agains lush vegetative
growth of the new varieties as a result of heavy application of fertilizers
has been considered conducive to the buildup of leafhoppers.
13.       In 1954, G00  invited the Rockefeller Foundation to survey India
to determine the potential for corn and to suggest a research program in
corn improvem.ent. In 1957, a coordinated corn breeding program was initiated
on a national scale 'by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, in
cooperation with various state governments and the Rockefeller Foundation.
As a result of the work done, four hybrids were released in 1961.  Subse-
quently other high-yielding hybrids were also released. By 1964, the
hybrids star-ted catching the attention of progressive farmers. According
to estimates, more than 2e5 million ac have already been planted to hybrid
corn and the area is expected to increase to about 5 million ac by 1974.
14.       However, in addition to problems relating to agronomic practices,
plant diseases have posed a threat to the spread of maize, particularly
in north India. Since 1962, a disease characterized by severe leaf strip-
ing has been observed in several corn growing areas. Brown stripe has
since been recognized as a major disease problem. Though attempts to
breed resistant hybrids are continuing, none of the released ones are
highly resistant, though some are tolerant. Corn hybrids and composites
have their pest problems too. The sorghum shoot fly has been found to be



ANNEX 1
Page .4
a new pest to all varieties of corn. Two others that have assumed importance
are the stalk borer and the pink borer.
15,       Sorghum is an important cereal crop in India, covering an area
of about 46.5 million ac. The first hybrid,0 CHS-l- was developed and
released in 1964 by the Coordinated Hybrid Sorghum Scheme in collaboration
with the Rockefeller Foundation. This hybrid not only has a high yielding
potential, but also produces grain of acceptable quality. Average yields
of 2,000 lb per acre without irrigation and 4,000 lb per acre with irriga-
tion are conmon. Under best agronomic practices, a yield of 6,000 lb can
be obtained. Another hybrid, CHS-2, a long-duration type, was later
released for late rainfall areas.
16.       Sorghum hybrids have been highly susceptible to sugary disease
which assumed importance only after the release of these hybrids. Another
diseases not reported earlier, became important in 1968. This is a leaf
spot caused by a fungus, that has been a serious problem in Nqigeria, Both
the hybrids are susceptible to pests which were considered minor earlier,
the shoot (stem) fly, earhead webbing caterpillar and gall midge.
Government Policies
17.       It should be evident that, in cultivated crops the disease and
pest situation in relation to high-yielding varieties has already become
serious, whereas in others there exists a real potential danger of heavy
losses. In some cases, varieties have beenfound to be highly susceptible
to hitherto unimportant diseases and pests. Since there is a tendency to
grow those few varieties of crops that find general acceptability in large
contiguous areas, the danger of disease and pest epidemics is a real one.
It is therefore essential to plan the steps to be undertaken to meet the
present situation and to ensure continued gains in food production.
18.       Until recently, plant protection was not considered as important
in India as agronomy and breeding.  This attitude came from the notion that
resistant varieties for all the major diseases and pests could be bred and
improvements and alterations in cultivation practices could reduce their
incidence. This notion is disappearing and there is developing a much
better realization of the importance of plant protection and a deeper
appreciation for crop protection measures by chemicals.
19.       Among the steps being taken is the initiation of a program for
expanded plant protection under the current Development Plan (1969-1974).
In the last year of the Plan, it is proposed that about one half of the
cropped area will be covered by various plant protection measures, such
as seed treatment, ground and aerial pest and disease control of field
crops and antirodent measures. Intensive or preventive pest treatment that
would involve more than one application per crop and per season is foreseen
for all areas under the high-yielding crop varieties program and for
plantation and commercial crops. The respective targets under the Plan are
summarized in the following table:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Treatment                   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74
- - - -- - - acres millions)o - ---
Seed treatment                 50         62        7         86        99
Rat control                    20         25        30        35        40
General pests                  15         20        25        25        30
Intensive application          83        99        114       133       148
20,       To support the targets for increased plant protection the GOI has
introduced at the beginning of 1970 a subsidy scheme for areas declared
endemic. It will pay Rs 7 towards operational aerial spraying charges. Ex-
pected coverage for 1970/71 under the scheme is 1.6 million acres out of a
total expected coverage of 4.0 million acres. The remaining 2.4 million
acres would be sprayed under state sponsored schemes.
21.       It is not possible to determine the budget allocations for state
sponsored aerial spraying under the current Plan because at the same time
that GOI introduced the subsidy for endemic spraying, it abolished the
specific subsidy for state sponsored spraying. State governments receive
now bulk allocations (70% loan, 30% grant) earmarked for the agricultural
sector and it is up to them to allocate these funds between all their
agricultural programs. The amount of subsidy given in the past to farmers
for plant protection, including aerial spraying, varied. widely from state
to state and ranged from 50% of spraying costs to nothing.
Government Organization
22.       GO1s plant protection policies and programs are implemented
through the Directorate of Plant Protection, Plant Quarantine and Storage.
The Directorate staff totals 760. There is a field station in each state,
manned by a Plant Protection Officer and a small staff. The primary func-
tion of the field stations is to run a survey and warning system to keep
GOI informed about the current pest and disease situation and to coordinate
state and union government efforts in arresting any potentially serious
infestation before epidemic proportions are reached.  The plant protection
field officers provide support to the G0I's agricultural aviation unit when
it is operating in their area. The Directorate also runs 15 plant quarantine
stations located at points of entry to India and 52 locust control outposts.
23.       The plant protection organizations in the states are headed by
a state Plant Protection Officer (PPO), who reports to the Director of
Agriculture. The PPOs have staffs that include entomologists in different
crops and pests* The state organizations often draw on research work being
done by entomologists in agricultural universities. At district and block
levels, plant protection work is carried out by district PPOs, agricultural
extension officers, block development officers and village fieldmen. The
state plant protection programs provide advice and assistance in a number
of activities, including seed treatment to prevent disease, control of rats



A1\NEX 1
Page 6
and other rodents, and control of soil insects and plant disease on the
ground and from the air. IMIost states have plans to further build up these
services, It is intended to phase out subsidies by 1974. However, states
realize that initial subsidy of aerial spraying is essential to introduce
this modern method of applying pesticides among farmers.
Research and Training
24.       Besides strengthening the breeding program of pest- and disease-
resistant crop varieties, there is an urgent need for extended research
in plant protection and development of forecasting services. This wjork
should be directed toward solving field problems. The recent establishment
of eight agricultural universities in India, oriented to practical agricul-
ture has been a step towards intensifying practical research on disease
and pest control. However, these institutions do not have enough qualified
scientists and they lack funds for performing adequate crop pest and disease
research and teaching. Because present research is concentrated mainly on
solving the technical problems of plant protection, little information on
crop losses has been gathered. Appraisal of plant pest and disease losses
and their impact on agricultural production is the basis for planning any
plant protection program.
25.       There is also need for increased research in the use of chemicals
for controlling diseases and pests and in methods of applying chemicals.
Finding an effective chemical is not enough. Research would have to be
continued until proper schedules were developed for making recommendations
to farmers. Again, preferential and increased budget allocations to support
practical, problem-solving research are called for.
26.       In order to set up adequate forecast services, increased numbers
of highly qualified plant pest and disease diagnosticians are needed. It
has been learned that plant pathologists and entomologists do not always
make good diagnosticians. Plant nutrient and other soil deficiency symptoms
have been mistakenly analyzed as plant diseases, resulting in ineffective
control measures. To diagnose properly, one needs a broad knowledge of
biological} chemical and agricultural aspects.
27.       The need for, and constraints of, applied research are recognized
by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute at Yew Delhi, Lhich coordi-
nates all plant protection research and is taking steps to improve the
situation on a long-term basis.  Spectacular results, however, cannot be
expected in the near future because of the tiue element involved in this
kind of research. The establishlernt of an effective pest reporting system
has also been undertaken in four selected districts wiith Ford Foundation
assistance. Training of field officers is done at the GOI Plant Protection
Institute at Hyderabad, which has plans for an expanded training program.
Several states maintain similar training facilities, concentrating on
specific state problems.  All training institutes teach subjects related
to aerial plant protection and intend to broaden activities in this field.
Fuhther, research and extension is assisted by a number of expatriate



Al'N2NEi 1
Page 7
specialists attached to universities and institutions under various tech-
nical assistance agreements.
Legislation
28.       All states, except IJest Bengal, have enacted some form of agri-
cultural pest and disease legislation. Generally, this legislation follows
a model bill prepared and circulated by the GOI. These acts provide a
system by wihich the state governments may declare an emergency When there
is a threat of pest or disease epidemics and compel the application of
prescribed treatment on a mass scale. The model act, which provides for
notice and hearing, is somelihat cumbersome.  Reports indicate that provi-
sions of this legislation are rarely utilized. But systems for voluntary
control operations have been worked out under the provisions of other leg-
islation and through local plant protection officers and agricultural
extension officers at the panchayat 17  district and state levels.  For
instances the panchayat councils may pass resolutions authorizing and
directing the panchayat union to contract for specific aerial operations
and authorizing for the collection of the costs from benefited farmers
through government revenue services. IIost states have been experimenting
with similar methods of organizing work and cost recovelry of aerial treat-
ment and have developed wiorkable procedures. The Insecticide Act, 1968,
passed by the GOI, is designed to regulate the import, manufacture, sale,
transport, distribution and use of insecticide to provide safety to human
and animal life and to ensure minimum standards of quality in the products
offered for sale.
1/ Local elected bodies on village, multi-village and district levels.



AITNEXT 2
IiDIA
AGJICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
The Agricultural Aviation Industry
Scope of Aerial Application
1.        WTith the rapid progress of Indian agriculture the need for avia-
tion services to control pests and diseases in an organized manner has
become important. An increase in the aerial treatment of Indian crops
with suitable pesticides would result in a substantial reduction of crop
losses in the field.
2.        Aerial application affords an opportunity for increasing urgently
needed plant protection in India in an effective and organized mannero
lD]hen properly organized it can cover larger areas more rapidly during
critical pest periods than can be achieved by the use of ground methods
of application. The acreage to be covered by aerial means is concentrated
on areas, and in instances, most favorable to its use, specifically:
a) large contiguous crop tracts attacked by pests and diseases
requiring timely application and where ground methods cannot
be sufficiently and rapidly mobilized and crop losses would
be great if delayed ground methods were applied;
b) areas with soft ground conditions as in rice, which are not
accessible by ground methods;
c)  tracts of luxuriant crop growth vhich would be damaged by
ground methods since many people must enter the field;
d)  crops in late growth stages. for example, sugarcane when
it is no longer possible to effectively control pests from
the ground.
3.        There are approximately 35 million ac of crops (approximately
10% of the area under cultivation in India), which are susceptible to
pests and would benefit from aerial treatment with pesticides one or more
times each year. The 1968/69 aerial crop treatment involved only 1.5 mil-
lion ac.  The agricultural aviation groups in India, both government and
private, are exerting a creditable effort in attempting to treat the acreage
infestations as they arise.  They are, however, underequipped--in some cases
using obsolete aircraft--and understaffed, with pilots who have never had
formal agricultural training. Further, they face dii'ficult problems of
work organization. The major features and constraints of the industry are
set out in this annex.



Al, M X 2
Page 2
GOI Aviation Unit
4.        The use of aircraft for agricultural pest control began in India
in 1944 when a militaxy aircraft was employed for reconnaissance to locate
swarms of locust in the Rajasthan desert. The GOI considered its aerial
operations against locust to have been successful, and a permanent agri-
cultural aviation unit was established in 1957 under the GOI Directorate
of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage. The unit was initially equipped
with three fixed wing aircraft obtained with Colombo Plain aid. Additional
aircraft were obtained up to 1964 when the GOI fleet was increased to its
present strength of seven. The GOIts agricultural aviation unitts head-
quarters and operating base are at Safdarjang Airport, New Delhi.
5.        Since 1964, GOI has taken several important steps to strengthen
the management of its aviation unit, including the appointment of:
a) a full-time and well-qualified director;
b) an air operations officer;
c)  a chief engineer; and
d) a chief stores officer.
In addition to operating the unit, these officers cooperate with the private
companies in efforts to meet their needs and in promoting state-sponsored
and centrally supported spraying programs. As a result, the coverage by
the government planes increased from 42,735 ac in 1964 to 344,510 ac in
1969 (Table 1).
6.        The unit depends on the employment of pilots and technical person-
nel released from the armed services. Pilots are given 25 hours of con-
version and specialized flight training by the unitts operations officer
or chief pilot. Major air frame maintenance and routine maintenance is
performed partly by the unit's own shops and partly under contract by a
private company in Bombay.  Ehgine overhaul is performed by the Govern-
ment's Hindustan Aeronautics, Ltd. in Bangalore.
7.        The aircraft operated by the GOI unit is a large, high-winged
plane with a 450-hp engine.  It is versatile and rugged, but it is not
designed as an aerial applicator.  Ihile its operating cost is high, its
load capacity of 150 gal, or 1,200 lb, of chemicals is not much greater
than that of the smaller aircraft in India. This equipment will need to
be phased out and new, more specialized agricultural equipment brought in
so as to update to current industry standards. The GOI unit has purchased
three helicopters on the Exim Bank loan in 1969. They plan to add one
more helicopter in order to bring the mixed fleet in balance with demand
for aerial mork.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Private Operators
8.        Aerial treatment of crops in India by privately owned aircraft
began in 1959 and was conducted largely from aircraft chartered from over-
seas for demonstration purposes by agricultural chemical companies or
private aviation operators. In 1965, the GOI prohibited further payments
of foreign exchange for charter of agricultural aircraft from abroad or for
paying foreign pilots. Private operators sprayed from 4,100 ac with three
aircraft in 1959 to 1,175,632 ac with 30 aircraft in 1969. Growth in
acreage, regional and seasonal distribution, crops sprayed and aircraft
efficiency are analyzed in Tables 1 and 2.
9.        Until 1968, there were seven active private agricultural aircraft
companies (Table 3). Three more companies started operations in 1969,
while seven others either have or are in the process of making arrangements
for equipment and personnel to start operations.  The private companies
have formed an agricuLtural aircraft association in the hope of cooperating
and working together on large-scale state programs.
Repair and Maintenance
10.       The map shows that the operatorst base locations are about
equally divided between Miew Delhi and Bombay, with three in other areas.
The reasons for concentrating around these major cities are because of
the availability of facilities, hangars, shops, spare parts, technical
labor, and better living conditions, The operators, however, send their
equipment to any part of India where volume of work potential exists.
Airplanes are flomn to assignments and helicopters are generally trailered.
Six Bombay operators are based on Juhu Airport, formerly the municipal
airport, and one company is at the civil airport, Santa Cruz.
11.       Table 3 lists the operators who are dealers for imported aircraft.
These operators are well equipped to perform major maintenance on the
aircraft they sell and they also do maintenance work for other operators
who have no shop facilities. The manufacturers of the aircraft indicate
a willingness to train maintenance personnel and to have a technical rep-
resentative visit the operation periodically to give advice and to trouble-
shoot any problems. Some of the spare parts are available from the dealers
and arrangements need to be made to increase these supplies.
12.       There are at least 30 other maintenance shops, many of them
belonging to flying clubs, throughout india that,are able to handle main-
tenance of small aircraft. Among these are Airw-3orks India at Bombay, a
large overhaul facility, and Associated Airworks and Air Survey Company
at Calcutta. There are five instrument repair shops. The Governmentts
Hindustan. Aeronautics, Ltd. (HIAL) manufactures military and civilian
aircraft and has extensive repair capability. HAL has in design an exper-
imental agricultural applicator aircraft. According to their present
projected plans, this aircraft would not be available to the industry
before 1974/75.



Page 4
Airfields
13.       The airfield facilities throughout India are fully adequate to
provide operating bases for the enlarged fleet. Hangars are needed mostly
for maintenance purposes and are available at most contemplated bases or
can be constructed without much expense.  Operating bases in the field need
be only lov-grade earth strips, easily prepared in most flat areas. A
field 1,500 x 100 ft with 200 ft clear on a 1:2 slope at each end can be
leveled and compacted at low cost, and crude temporary strips have been
successfully prepared by villagers working under supervision. Helicopter
pads, 50 x 50 ft within field tracts, can be prepared with less effort,
thereby constributing the helicopter's reputation for flexibility.
Aircraft
14.       There is, at present, a mixture of helicopters and airplanes in
the fleet, as indicated in Table 3.  Some of this equipment is outmoded,
expensive to operate and should be replaced. Because of increased interest
by growers and operators in helicopter work, a number were imported in
1969 wjith Exim Bank assistance, bringing the fleet to almost a half and
half ratio. All over the world, the number of helicopters being used for
agriculture has increased greatly in recent years and many airplane oper-
ations are adding rotary wing craft to their fleets. There is a place for
both types of aircraft in India.
Aircraft Accidents
150       From 1965 through 1969, there was a total of 18 accidents listed
as major damage.  Of these, eight were airplane accidents and all were
associated with problems of airstrip landing or taking off procedures. Of
the 10 helicopter accidents, half are listed as "cause undetermined", or
"under investigation," Except for one that resulted from a tail rotor
failure, the remaining were caused by typical pilot errors. such as hitting
obstructions or misusing controls during loaded takeoff. US accident
statistics average 3.7 accidents per 10,000 flying hours.  The accident
record in India is based upon a smaIl number of aircraft and would be
about double this figure. Improved training and supervision is expected
to improve the situation,
Hull Insurance
16.       A wrldwide problem is the purchase of adequate accident insurance
coverage for low-flying agricultural aircraft at bearable cost. Premium
rates may be the single highest item of operating expenditures. Indian
operators pay presently between 15el and 27' of the aircraft value annually,
including a 75; foreign exchange coverage which is    insured in the London
market, Newcomers to the business and inexperienced comapanies fall in
the highest premium bracket. Each operator is individually assessed by
the insurer and pilot experience is an important yardstick in determining
premium rates, Improved training, followed by lo01 claims ltuld help the
industry to obtain gradually more favorable insurance conditions,



A1JI'EX 2
Page 5
Staffing
17.       The management abi-lity of the operators (first nine on Table 3)
appear to be adequate for an expanded program. They have developed experi-
ence over the years, added personnel and equipment and presented a knowl-
edgeable approach to the proposed project.  NTew operators who are just
starting had related business backgrounds in agriculture or aviation and
appeared confident that they could secure personnel to begin operation.
Observations, however, indicated that experienced people were in short
supply, as reflected in "pirating" of employees among operators.
18.       At first, the industry was able to secure enough retired air-
plane and helicopter pilots from the services, but no helicopter pilots
have been released lately and the shortage is acute. Airplane pilots, how-
ever, are readily available from the ranks of commercial pilots trained
by various flying clubs, All pilots need agricultural training and
operators give them some training w-ithout providing formal instruction in
agricultural subjects. Consequently, pilots presently with the fleet have
limited understanding of the technical aspects of agricultural aviation.
Better pilot training would help to bring down current rates for hull and
liability insurance rates on agricultural flying.
19.       IIaintenance personnel at present are adequate and sufficient for
expansion.  However, more licensed engineers must be trained each year to
meet the desired ratio of one licensed engineer for every two aircraft.
Again, personnel with fair experience are available from the servicesp
but they are not licensed.
Operating Arrangements
20.      !,hile the GOI plant protection program provides assistance and
advice to the states, the execution of aerial plant protection is basically
the responsibility of state governments. A few plantations and growerst
cooperatives with such crops as rubber, sugarcane and cotton or suffi-
ciently large holdings or crop tracts individually employ aircraft operators
to spray their crops, but this lucrative portion of the market is small.
For the bulk of the work, applicators have to rely on the agricultural
authorities of the Indian states to arrange for the treatment of farmers
crops. Because of the small size of farm holdings in India it is not
possible to build an aerial plant protection industry based mainly on
private negotiations between farmers and applicators. State governments
must be involved to organize the demand into economically viable programs
for a given area. IHost states have had experience with different methods
of organizing demand for aerial treatment and have developed workable
procedures under state Acts that make application on large areas and cost
collection from farmers possible. Hethods of demand organization are.
however, expected to go through further evolution as optional systems are
developed.



ANTE,X 2
Page r
21L       Generally, it is the responsibility oZ the state authorities to:
a)  plan the amount of aerial spraying to be done;
b) budget for the program, including subsidies, and provide
respective operational funds;
c) select the areas to be sprayed and determine time of appli-
cation;
d)  tender and arrange contracts with operators;
e)  procure and make available appropriate pesticides at spray-
ing sites as determined by the state entomologists;
f)  instruct plant protection personnel in the field, exten-
sion services, and village and district councils to get
farmers interested;
g) locate and construct landing strips or helicopter pads;
h) prepare detailed field maps and provide qualified loaders
and flagmen;
i)  call in the aircraft at the proper time and pay the operators
for the acres sprayed;
j)  organize recovery of costs fron farmers through revenue
services;
k) obtain reimbursement of plan funds from GOI; and
1)  checlck record and report the results of aerial treatment.
22.       Some organizational weaknesses have curtailed aerial  programs
in the past.  For example, in some cases. states used funds that had been
allocated to them by the GOI on the basis of their plans for aerial
spraying for other program.s  In order to improve operating arrangements,
GOI has changed the method of plan support of aerial plant protection at
the onset of the 1969/70 season.  However, the response from states was
slow, delaying aelial programs temporarily during the monsoon season of
that year. GOI, in collaboration with the indust;y, took immediate steps
to work out new operating arrangements with the states, -which nearly all
have plans for extended aerial plant protection.
Safeguards in Aerial Application
23,       Great care has been taken in the past to avoid spraying inhabited
areas; village wells or -water supplies, rivers and ponds; cattle feed or
other sensitive areas. Advance notice is given to the community before



A.NNEX 2
Page 7
spraying commences and restricted areas are clearly marked. Per acre
application of active chemicals can be calibrated to the most economic
rates more accurately in aerial than in ground equipment, thus minimizing
undesirable side effects on the environment.



ANREX 2
Table 1
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Growth of Aerial Crop Treatment in India
A. Actual
GOI Uhit           Private Operators            Total Fleet
No. of                 No. of                                Average/
Year       Aircraft      Area     Aircraft        Area         Area      Aircraft
(ac)                    (ac)          (ac)        (ac)
1951          3          3,260        --                        3,260       1,087
1952          3         18,520       --            --          18s520      6,173
1953          3          2,850        --           --           2,850        950
1954          3          2L4.2       --            --           2,442         814
1955          1            650       --            --             650         650
1956          1            100        --           --             100         100
1957          3         19,159       --            --          19,159      6,386
1958          3         22x135        --           --          22,135      7,378
1959          3         20,700        3            4,113       24,813      4,136
1960          2          9,025        7           4ljl389      50,414      5,6o2
1961          3         46s,538       7           31,040       77,578       7,758
1962          4        213,586       10           71,667      285,253      20,375
1963          4         21,920         7          63,700       85,620       7,784
1964          7         42,9735       7           342265       77,000      5,5oo
1965          7        127#532       13          270s696      398,228     19,911
1966          7        182,914       16          224,733      407,647     17,724
1966/67 1/   7         209,330       16          286,377      495,707     21t552
1967/68       7        204.,870      20          779,130      984,000     36,444
1968/69       7        344,S51o      30        1,l751632    1,520,142     41,o85
3. Projected /
Helicopters               Fixed Wing             Total Fleet
Project     No. of                  No. of                    Area      Average/
Year      Aircraft       Area     Aircraft        Area      Treated    Aircraft
1          37      1,394,719       46       1,402,200    2,796,919    37,987
2          48      10848,750       57       1,792,200    3,640,95o    38,734
3          63      2,537,737       75       2s433,750    4,971,487    40,918
4          63      3s024,000        75      2,925.000    5,949,0oo    43,109
5          63      39222,450       75       3,138,75o    60361,200    46,o96
1/ Records from this date on were computed on agricultural year basis, June to July.
2/ GOI and private operators.



AGHICUITUF?AL AVIATION_  JC,0i3T
Pattern of Aerial Ppplication
in Percent of Total Acreage sprayeJ193 l   through 1969
Regions and States                             Crops                            Crop Seasons and Months
A. South                     Percent      A. Food Grains               Percent      A. Kharif (Monsoon)           Percent-/
Andhra Pradesh               l.9          Riceh/                    -7-  T -        June                           - 3/
Kerala                       5.4         WTheat                        7.6          July                          0.7
Mysore                       2.7          Sorghum                      o.6          August                        7.7
Tamil Nadu-/                15.6             Subtotal                 29.7          September                    10.4
Subtotal                 257                                                     October                     12.6
B. Pulses, Oilseeds                             Subtotal                  31.7
B. West                                      Groundnut4/                  5.1
Gujarat/                     2.9          Others                       6.7       B. Rabi (0^.nter)
Madhya Pradesh               8.6             Subtotal                 11.8          November                     18.1
Maharashtrai/               22.,4                                                   December                     13.3
Subtotal                 33.9      c. Fibre Crops                                January                       1.1
Cotton4/                    15.1          February                     26.7
C. North                                     Jute                         0.4         'March                         6.7
Ta-rYana?/                   3.0             Subtotal                 175              Subtotal                  65.9
Punjab                       7.14
Rajasthan                    5.4       D. Mixed Crops5/               17.8       C. Pre-1!bnsoon
Uttar Pradesh               21.6                                                    April                         1.5
Subtotal                 37-4      '. Other Cash Crops                           May                           1.2
Sugarcane                   18.9             Subtotal                   2.7
D. Sast                                      Potato                       0.5                 Total                100.7
Assam                         _ 3/           Subtotal                 TlT
Bihar                        0.5      F. Plantations
Orissa                        - 3/        Rubber                       5,3      1/ States with consistent growth
West Bengal                  2.5          Coconut                        - 3/         in aerial application
Subtotal                 7T7              Subtotal                  53       2/ Up to 1967/68 included in Punjab.
Total                100.0      G. Other WorkY7                  0.5       / Less than 0.1%.
Total_ 100.0  G. Other Intor  °-5    :TT/ Crops with consistent annual
growth in aerial application.
Total                100.0      5/ Fragmented crops sprayed at one
time.
6/ Orchards, forestry work and mos-
quito control.
7/ Percentage refers to 1968/69 only.



ANNEX 2
Tarble 3
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Expected Operational Fleet Strength as at June 30, 1970
Aircraft       AcraSt Nos
Based at   Dealerships2Z i4  FW 47'otal
A. Government of India                 New Delhi         -         3    7       10
B. Private Operators
1) Indamer                       Bombay             1         2    6        8
2) Cambata Aviation              Bombay &           2         4    2        6
New Delhi
3) Helicopter Services           Bombay             1         6    2        8
4) H.S. Sobha Singh              Bombay             -         2    2        4
5) Mathur Aviation Co.           Bombay &           1         -    6        6
New Delhi
6) I4ahindra & Mahindra Ltd.     Bombay             1         2    -        2
7) Avindia                       Bombay             -         2    1       3
8) Naneckji Aviation             Bombay             1         2    -       2
9) Kherka Aviation               New Delhi          -         2    2       4
10) Sanghi Aviation               New Delhi          -         2    2        4
& Indore
11) Rambahadur Thakur Co.         New Delhi          -         2    -        2
12) INarang Bishnol Co.           New Delhi          -         -    2        2
13) Eharat Agro-Aviation Co.      New Delhi          -         -    2        2
14) Agro-Engineering Ltd.         New Delhi          -         -    2        2
15) Bharatair Ltd.                Calcutta           -         3    -        3
16) Push Paka Aviation Ltd.       Madras             -         -    -       -
17) Punjab Cooperative Marketing
Federation Ltd.             Chandigarh         -         -    -       _
Subtotal                                       32   36      68
Unallocated                                                    -   10       10
Subtotal                                       32   46      78
Less: Replacements 6/
Total Fleet Strength                                       32   41      73
C.  iequirement5 for Additional
Aircraft  _/                                                  48   52     100
1/ Based on information obtained from GOI, Exim Bank and operators.
2/ Dealerships of makes manufactured in 4 IDA member countries.
3/ Helicopters.
4/ Fixed idng aircraft
7/ Aircraft likely to be imported from Yugoslavia under bilateral arrangement before
June 1970.
6/ Expected replacement of five uneconomic aircraft of Polish-Russian origin by five
Yugoslavian aircraft.
7/ Based on returns from GOI, including trainer aircraft, and listed private
operators. T&k&b £ccUfft of needed replacements and assums that enterprises
would build up fleet strength to 8-10 aircraft per unit.



ANNEX 3
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Agricultural Applicator Aircraft
A. Fixed Wing Aircraft
1.        Agricultural aircraft procured under the project should be
designed to fly close to the ground with heavy loads. This requires a
specialized airplane with handling characteristics different than the
average passenger or cargo carrying plane, which flies at high altitude
and uses commercial airport runways.
Good Performance
2.        Sufficient power should be available to cope with emergencies
created by strong downdrafts or by the need to clear sudden obstacles
involving steep climbs. To meet such requirements, the power loading of
the engine should be low, about 10 to 12 lb/hp.  The aircraft should have
excellent short takeoff and landing (STOL) capabilities, so that it can
unstick in about 150 yd without any tendency to sink, and permit safe
operation from 400-yd long airstrips from elevations of 2,000 ft. The
aircraft should have a high initial rate of climb to permit operation from
obstructed airstrips and possess a low stalling speed with the ailerons
remaining partially effective, even in a stall. A spray speed of about
90 mph should be possible.
Safe Handling Qualities
3.        The aircraft should handle well, without imposing any strain on
the pilot or making unnecessary demand on his attention. For instance,
there should be no increase in stickload in case the chemical load is
dumped in an emergency. This is possible only if the hopper is located
on the center of gravity. There should be no fuel management problem.
The fuel system should have only an ON-OFF cock. Control forces should
not be too high and the aircraft should be easily maneuverable.
4.        The aircraft should be made as proof as possible against unin-
tentional stalls and spins. Spray flying sometimes involves unconventional
techniques, such as crossing the controls and slipping and skidding around
corners in order to cover otherwise inaccessible places. If the pilot
must use many unconventional flying techniques, full control of the air-
craft should be possible at low speeds without dropping a wing. Because
the pilot must take many liberties with the aircraft to perform his task,
it must be lightweight--l,500 to 3,000 lb empty, with a payload capacity
of about 1,500 to 2,000 lb. The low-wing monoplane configuration has
advantages since an upper wing might blank out visibility in a turm. The
cockpit should have a high perch for the pilot allowing undistorted visibility.



AlThiiX 3
Page 2
Pilot Protection
5.        The fully specialized agricultural aircraft is specifically
designed to afford good crash protection to the pilot. This may be ensured
by constructing the fuselage so that it can absorb energy by progressive
collapse, thereby dissipating crash forces to a considerable extent before
they reach the cockpit. Also, the longerons may be given a slightly out-
ward bulge, so that the cockpit disintegrates outwards and away from the
pilot. No heavy equipment should be installed aft of the cockpit so that,
in the event of a crash, there is no possibility of the pilot being crushed
between the engine and such equipment. The hopper should, therefore, be
interposed between the engine and cockpit and not in the rear of the fuselage.
The fuel tank should not be in the center section, but in the wings, Which
minimizes fire hazards. The undercarriage legs should have knife edges in
the front to cut any wires flown into inadvertently. A protective wire
should also be strung from the top of the cockpit to the top of the rudder
to deflect any obstructions accidently hit, The cockpit should have no
protruding or jagged ends and be thickly padded in the front.
Other Features
6.        The engineers prefer an aircraft that is easy to repair.  For
this reason, the fuselage construction should preferably be tubular rather
than semi-monocoque. Since the agricultural aircraft operates from make-
shift airstrips far away from its established home base, it is not possible
to proceed on operation with a full range of maintenance and servicing
facilities, Hence, it is essential that the specialized agricultural air-
craft be devoid of unnecessary sophistication. The maintenance burden on
the ground crew should be as low as possible.
7.        The undercarriage should be either of the spring steel cantilever
type or the rubber-in-compression shock-absorption type. Large low-pressure
tires, with disk brakes, attached on wide track wheels, are necessary for
operation off soft ground and in crosswind concitions., where effective
braking may become necessary. The oil-and-air oleos are avoided because
pressure leaks or oil leaks in the field would create maintenance problems.
Oil and fuel should be drainable without the need of tools or manipulating
locking wire and safety pins, and preferably without removal of cowlings.
Cowlings should not be attached with screws,  It should be possible to
attach, open, close or remove air cleaners, batteries, cowlings, and booms
with only the fingers.
8.        In summary, the specialized agricultural aircraft should be a
simple flying instrument. Illustrative operational specifications of
airplanes are shown in Table 1. These are based on several specialized
agricultural aircraft conforming in general to the requirements as indicated,
There are dealers for each of these makes in India.



ANMEX 3
Page 3
B. Helicopters
9,        The helicopter equipment situation is somewhat different as far
as choice is concerned. Currently, the most used and proven helicopter
for agricultural work is the US Bell. Bell has maintained the commercial
market lead in numbers of agricultural aircraft produced and sold, both
domestically and overseas.
l0o       Economics of helicopter operation indicates that an agricultural
machine should carry a payload of 80 to 100 gal of liquid and use a swath
width of 100 to 120 ft. The helicopter should have adequate reserve of
power to be relatively trouble-free in field operations, with at least
1,200 flight hours before an engine and ship overhaul period. Component
partst life prior to required replacement should be high--2,500 to 5,00O
flight hours if possible. 1Saintenance should be possible in the field or
operatorts shop without returning parts to the factoxy for overhaul.
Flight control should be easy so as not to increase pilot fatigue. The
rotor system should be of sufficient inertia so as to allow easy emergency
or autorotation landings. The blades should be of sufficient strength
to withstand contact with wires and small objects such as tree twigs or
bush encountered in agricultural flying.
C. Work Capacity
11.       The operational production figures of agricultural applicators
projected in this report will vary, depending upon many factors.  These
include:
a)  load carrying capacity of the aircraft.  Load carrying
capacity will depend not only upon horsepower of the
equipment, but upon air density, heat and humidity, altitude
and length of takeoff area,
b)  Sped flowin.  Speed is generally determined by manufacturer
specifications for safe swath muns, except in the case of
helicopters.  Rotary wing craft can vary speed and achieve
a desired result, depending upon crop density.
c)  Swath width used.  Swiath width is determTined by test for
each aircraft. This should include sufficient overlap to
ensure even coverage. One complaint was that pilots flew
too high and tried to cover too wide a swnath.  W^Jires, trees
and other obstructions in the fields should dictate the
height of flight.
d) Gallonage applied per acre. Gallonage per acre is determined
by state officials or other technical personnel. IjIost work
in India is set at 1 to 2 gal per acre, with ultra low-volume
spraying of 8 to 12 oz of technical chemical-per acre accounting
for a small percentage.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
e)  Distance to ferry from loading site. This distance is
dictated by terrain or ability to build airstrips close to
the prograrn area. Helicopters pose no problem here.
f) Turn-around loading time, I-lost of the Indian operators
have developed good loading facilities so as to keep the
aircraft on the job without unreasonable delays.
g) Size of fields being worked. The operator has no control
over this factor, Proper organization of work to permit
efficient flying patterns is quite important. Vhien many
small fields are to be covered, the operators fly a straight
line for about 5 to 6 miles with flagmen stationed at 1/4-
to 1/2-mile intervals.  The spray is turned on each tnie
the aircraft goes over one of the many small blocks to be
sprayed and turned off when each has been passed.



ANEX3
Table 1
INDIA
AG:ICULTUPAL AVIATION PROJECT
Aircraft Specifications
A. Fixed Wing
Aircraft M4ake:                       1         2        3        4         5        6
Price (us$) 1/                     23,000   21,000   38,500   43,000   21,000   32,300
IJorsepower                           300       260      450      600       290      300
Smpty weight (lb)                   1,845    1,540    2,690    3,700    1,775    2,200
Gross weight (nornal) (lb)          3,300    2,900    4,5oo    6,ooo    3,000    4,000
Gross weight (restricted) 4(b)      4,000    3,0o40 o    300    6,900    3,600    4,1470
UJseful load (normal) (lb)  I       1,500    1,360    1,810    2,300    1,225    1,800
Useful load (restricted) (lb)       2,000    1,500    2,600    3,000    1,800    2,270
.ate of climb (ft/mnn)                940      685    1,080       900       850    1,000
?akeoff run (ft)                      610      740       750      775       650      750
Landing run (ft)                      420      850       350      500       447      450
Hopper capacity (gal)                 200      150       247      400       200      350
B. Helicopter
Aircraft Make                             1                  2                  3
?rice (uss)                            45,000             33,600             37,500
Spraying gear (US$)                     3,700              4,,200            14,200
HIorsepower                               260                180                190
Emipty weight (lb)                     1i,640                958              1,025
Gross weight (lb)                       2,850              1,670              1,900
Useful load (lb) 2                      1,210                712                875
Hopper capacity (gal)                     100                 50                 65
1/ Includes agricultural accessories.  Variation in choice of equipment could cause
sore difference in prices.
2/ Useful load includes weight of pilot, fuel and oil)and payload.



ANMX X
INDI-
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Trainin
Pilot Training
I.        The training program included in the project ,would cover four
categories:
a) helicopter conversion course for pilots with commercial
license, including agricultural flight and ground training;
b)  agricultural flight and ground course for fixed wing pilots
without agricultural experience;
c)  refresher courses for pilots currently flying agricultural
work; and
d) refresher courses for pilots trained under the project to
update their knowledge and ability.
Flying experience requirements are listed in Appendix A and represent the
minimnm acceptable.  Cperators who hire trained pilots would have to let
them work initially as apprentices, guided by experienced pilots, until
they gain additional flight time and experience. An example of the heli-
copter flight and ground training curriculum is summarized in Appendix B.
2.        To be eligible for the training program, a candidate would have
to hold a valid commercial pilot license and have a minimumi flight exper-
ience of 200 hours3 selection of candidates would be the responsibility
of the proposed Training Center (TC), under the Directorate of Agricultural
Aviation (DAA). Iicensed pilots vould be available in sufficient numbers
from training courses given by flying clubs and from personnel retiring from
the forces. Because the training costs involved woluld be beyond the means
of most potential candidates, such expenses under the project would be
borne by Government.  Operators or trainees themselves wzould pawy for
accident insurance and subsistence during the training period. Refresher
course training would be only for pilots vho are employed. Employers
vould pay their training costs, including insurance and subsistence expenses.
Engineer Training
3.        The TC uould perform regular inspection, overhaul and maintenance
on all trainer aircraft as well as be responsible for the training of
engineers. This would include providing courses in performing field main-
tenance on agricultural aircraft belonging to DAA, as well as performing
a complete overhaul. The course would help prepare an applicant to pass



AiEX 4
Page 2
the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) engineerst license require-
ments in both airplane and helicopter maintenance. Student applicants
should be selected on the basis of aptitude, interest and background. The
DGCA requires that an aircraft in the field be inspected by a licensed
engineer every 25 hours. This could pose problems if there were not
enough licensed engineers available. MTanufacturers of aircraft sold to
India have expressed interest in assisting in training engineers to work
on their equipment. This training, however, is generally available only
to licensed engineers and would be given by technical representatives of
the manufacturers in India.
Training Goals
4.        The TC would have a fleet of four helicopters and four fixed
wing aircraft; three of each type would be schedUled for training purposes
and one of each type would be held on standby. With this equipment, the
center could meet the pilot requirements for each project year. Small
classes of 5 to 6 would create a favorable climate for individual instruc-
tion. Course output would be approximately 20 full course and 12 refresher
course helicopter pilots per year; 30 full course and 18 refresher course
fixed wing aircraft pilots; and 12 full course and 12 refresher course
engineers per year. Each training aircraft would have to be flown around
450 to 500 hours per year in order to fill this requirement, which would
warrant the investment.  There could be four full courses and three
refresher courses per year, allowing for some slack time between courses.
Instruction in ground oriented subjects can be scheduled between training
flights.
Overseas Training
5.        Since the key to successful pilot training is the availability
of qualified flight instructors, it would be necessary to immediately send
two helicopter and two airplane pilots from the GOI aviation unit overseas
for agricultural and instructor training. Cn return, they would be the
nucleus for the proposed flight training instructor staff.
Technical Assistance
6.        A technical assistance team would be engaged for a period of 12
months to provide guidance and help in getting the training program under-
way.  It would consist of one experienced agricultural helicopter pilot
instructor and one experienced agricultural airplane pilot instructor.
This assistance would offset the need for sending more pilots overseas for
instructor training. They would be responsible for setting up and starting
the flight training courses and associated ground school, as well as for
training more instructors. Active instruction, in both flight and ground
courses, could be provided by the team until the Indian instructors were
able to take over.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
INDIA
AGRICULTU,ALL AVIATION PROJECT
Training Course Timing
-----------Training----------
CategorY                                   -Flight       Ground      Total
A. Helicopter Pilot Course
Conversion (in hr)                        30           50          80
Agriculture (in hr)                       L              0        100
Total Hours         80          100         180
Duration (in weeks)                       --            --         10
B. Fixed Wing Pilot Full Course
Agriculture (in hr)                       50            50        100
Duration (in weeks)                       --            --          6
C. Pilot Refresher Courses
1) Helicopter pilots (in hr)              15            15         30
Duration (in w#eeks)                   --            --          2
2) Fixed wing pilots (in hr)              10           15          25
Duration (in weeks)                    --            --          1-1/2
D. Aircraft Engineer Courses
1) Full course (in weeks)                 --            --          8
2) Refresher course I (in weeks) 2/       _4 _
3) Refresher course II (in weeks)3/       --            --          2
1/ For pilots currently flying agricultural work and pilots trained
under the project.
2/ For engineers currently employed in agricultural work.
2/ For engineers trained under the project.



Ah3SEX 4
Appendix B
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Helicopter Training Course
A. Conversion Course (30 flight hours)
1.  10 hours basic maneuvers, pre-solo:  preflight, check control
movement, starting and stopping procedures, takeoffs, landings,
attitude control, square patterns and hovering 3600 turns.
2.  10 hours intermediate maneuvers, pre-solo:  running takeoffs,
running landings; quick stops; maximum performance takeoff;
steep approach landings; "S" turns; auto rotations with 900,
1800, 3600 turns; unusual positions.
3. 5 hours solo practice: all maneuver as under 1 and 2.
4. 5 hours review of all maneuvers: advanced proficiency tech-
niques} auto rotation and emergency practice, platform and slope
landings and takeoffs, heavy load procedures and introduction to
night flying.
B. Agriculture Flight Training (50 flight hous)
1.  Preflight check of aircraft, spray gear.
2.  Checkout of acres to be sprayed, obstructions, landing spots,
flight pattern.
3. Simulated spraying--empty.
4. Takeoff techniques--fully loaded.
5, Simulated spraying--loaded.
6. Nlight flying procedures.
7. Hethods of working around obstructions.
8. Simulated complete treatment of fields with water load.
9.  Simulated operation of other com,mercial work.
10.  Simulated emergency situations under field conditions.



ANNEX 4
Appendix B
Page 2
C, Ground Training (50 hours--tuition)
1. History of helicopter development.
2.  Cockpit checkout, preflight inspection.
3. Flight rules.
4. Function of the control.
5. Methods of control:  vertical, horizontal, directional.
6. Flight procecures:  starting, stopping, taxiing, hovering.
7. Explanation of basic helicopter maneuvers, preliminary and
advanced aerodynamics,
8. Rotocraft airworthiness and equipment performance, weight and
balance., operational limitations.
9. Theory of flight applicable to helicopters, ground effect,
resonance, vibrations, torque,  power settling, autorotative
forces.
10.  Accident prevention and analysis.
11. Helicopter maintenance, inspection.
12. Government air regulations, aircraft insurance.
13.  Comprehensive review and lecture on safe flying habits, emergency
situations, engine or other mechanical troubles, high tempera-
ture, altitude and mountain operations.
D. Agriculture Training (50 hours-tuition)
1. Aircraft types.
2. Chemicals and chemical hazards,
3. Causes and prevention of poisoning.
4. Corrosion control.
5. Agricultural crop recognition.
6. Basic biological aspects of pests and diseases.
7. I-lode of action of pesticides.



ANiUE2 a
Appendix B
Page 3
8. Sprays, dusts and granules.
9*  Spraying:  spray equipment and maintenance, spray formulations,
dilution and handling of spray liquids, spray application,
meteorological effects, calculation of dosage rates, calibration
methods.
10. Duhsting.
11. Granule spreading.
12. Special application problems, locust control.
13. The use and preparation of special maps for field flying.
1t4* Airstrips and helipads, ground organization.
15.  Swath marking:  flagmen, fixed beacons, flag poles, srioke, light.
16. Communications.
17. Ancillary equipment.
18.  ieteorology.
19.  Economic and logistic aspects of agricultural aviation.
20.  HIethods of payment for aerial work.
21. Keeping records and stocks.
22e Human problems and relations.



ANNEC 4
Appendix C
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Pro,eted Pilot and Engineer Trgining
(in Numbers of Trainees)
Year     Year    Year         Year
1        2       3   4 and thereafter
A. Helicopter Pilots
Full course                                10        20      20            20
Refresher course -                           6       12      12           (8)
Total                            Th       32       32           20
Cummulative                            -        48      80           l00 2/
Pilots without agricultural
flight training                          24        12       -            -
B. Fixed Wing Pilots
Full course      1/                          8       30      30            30
Refresher course -                           5       18      18           (10)
Total                            13       LT      178           30
Cunmmulative                           -        61     109           139 2/
Pilots without agricultural
flight training                          36        18       -            -
C. Aircraft Engineers
Full course      1/                          9       12      12            12
Refresher course -                         11        12      12           (4)
Total                            20 2_                          12
Cummulative                            -        44      68            80 3/
Engineers without agricultural
training                                 24        12       -            -
1/ Year 1 to year 3 for presently employed pilots and engineers; from
year 4 and thereafter for personnel trained under the project.
2/  Desirable ratio of about 3 pilots per 2 aircraft of the fleet.
3/  One engineer available for about 2 aircraft of the fleet.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Estixated Pro3ect Costs
(Rs I 00)
year 1                ~~~~~~~~~~Year 2                 Year 3                           Total
1/                             Local    Foreign               Looal     Foreign               Local     Foreign               Local      Foreign
Category                               Currency   Exchange   Total   Currency   Exchange   Total    Currenoy   Exchange   Total       Currency   Exchange   Total
A.  Aircraftt
Helicopter                                    1,264.5   1,264.5       -        843.0    843.o       -                                 -       2,107.5   2,107.5
Fixed wing airoraft                   16.8   1,516.5  1,~533.        11.2    10oo80   1 9.          -                    -           28.0    2.524.5    2 55 .5
Sub-total                                2161.   77E    T 2,II7. 71rT o,5862.2                 -                       -                   632. 0 4;663.0
2. Private Operatora -
Helicopter                           316.1    2,107.5   2,423.6    632.3   4,215.0  4,847.3         948.4   6,322.5  7,270.9    1,896.8   12,645.0  14,541.8
Fixed wing aircraft                            1.                         1 1.7    3 517.   3662.2  186.1  i.22.5         08.6       82.5       2 6.       678.8
Sub-total                      3, 777,732.5 -
Tetal                              384.6 6,14.> 6,529. 4    .    9,583.5  10,371.7  5  ,o3a4o 10,82l397 53                      - 2,307.32   2,
B.  Providion for Airoraft
RMI,aammnt & Ovn'aa  tInesur3morw
1. DkA - Aircraft replace ent               -         -          -         3.8      914.8    918.6         5.7      800.4    806.1          9.5     1,715.2   1,724.7
2. Private Operators -  Insurance         207.1      621.2    828.       645.0      3 1   280.1   1,2             3.699.2   4'.2_2    2     .1    6.255.5   8.340.6
hetal                              207.1                                         9 13 7 4,49.6 5   7 3    234  t     7  3
C.  Aircraft Spare Parta                        16.2      541.3    557.5       45.5   1,517.5  1,563.0         97.7   3,255.9  3,353.6        159.4    5,314.7   5,474.1
D.  Land Vehiclese
1. I"a                                     88.0       -         88.0        -         -         -          -         -          -          88.0        -          88.0
2. Private Operators                      330.3       _        330 3     726.0        -       726.0   iaooo          -      1.1000   2.i56_o  __2_1_6_0
Total                           -                       418.0  126.o                   726.   1I0.5           -      1, 100    2;244.7  02;24.Z0
E.  Building - fLA Training Center             400.0       _        400.0    100.0         _       100.0        -         -         -         500.0         -        500.0
F.  ElqiBat 
Special agric. aircraft equip.        -         - 56.3     56.3       -         37.6      37.6        -         -          -          -           93.9       93.9
Aircraft toole                        23.3       23.3      46.6       -          -         -          -         -          -          23.3        23.3       46.6
Oround aupporting equIp.              12.0                 12.0       -          -         -          -          -         -          12.0         -         12.0
Safety equipiat                        3.2        5.9       9.1       2.1        3.9       6.o        -         -          -           5.3         9.8       15.1
Fumiture and fittings                100.0        -       100.0      50.0        -        50.0        -         -          -         150.0         -        150.0
Training aids                         -          20.0      20.0       -         10.0      19.0        -         -         -           -           30.0      30
Sub-tcotal                      138.5      105.5    244.0        2.        S1.S    103.6         -         -          -         190.6       7          347.6
2. Private Operators -
Special agric. aircraft equip.         1.7       56.3      56.0       4.5      150.0    154.5         6.2    p1206.3      212.5       12.4       412.6      425.0
Aircraft tools                        24.0       23.3      47.3      48.0       46.6      94.6       71.9       69.8    l1a.7        143.9       139.7      283.6
Gromd aupporticg equip.               60.0        -        60.0    132.0         -       132.0      198.0        -        198.0      390.0        -         390.0
Safety equip.                          3.7        6.5      10.2       8         1  6      24.5       12.2        21.5         7       24.8        436        63 
Stb-tatal                         8         85                             .6 *  s397                                 I      - -.1 167 
Total                              22 . 9  1                                                   491.             2.2  .         5     85               7 2. l;t4.
G.  Other Costs - DAA Training Center:
1. Salaries and allowencee -
Local staff                          49o.2       -        490.2    552.0         -       552.0      552.0                 5 552.0   1,594.2       -       1,594.2
Technical assistance                  35.8       99.7    135.5    107.4        299.1    406.5        _     -               -         143.2       398.8      542.0
Overseas training                     36.0        84.0    120.0      -           -         -          -          -                    36.o        84.0      120.0
Sub-total                      3562.0 -7    759.7                     4   2          99. 7 55lU                              -;5 - 17 4 2s256 2
2. Operation and maintenance -
Aircraft                             160.0       -        160.0    400.0         -       400.0      390.0        -        390.0      950.0        -         950.0
Vehicles                              12.0        -         12.0     12.0                 12.0        12.0       -         12.0       36.0        _          36.0
Sub-total                        T                    T        1/20                    =                    -   -27  -20T  - 2                     -90 0   J
3. Plant protection study                  -           -         -        150.0       _       150.0       150.0       -        150.0      300.0        -         300.0
4. Miscellaneous Costs                     281.0       _        281.0    330.0        -       330.0       276.o       _        276.0      887.0        -         887.0
Total                           -t5.   18  3.   1,198.7   !7T1              299.1   1           1,380.0        -      1,360.0 03 7    --4               4,222
H.  Incremental Working CapitalV/             2,247.1       -      2. 247 .1  3.030.0     -       3.030.0   1,442.3        _      1.442.3    6,719.4        -       6,719.4
Total Project Cost, before
goptiagencies                         4,915.9    7,682.6 12,598.5   7,135.4  14,513.7  21,649.1    6,681.5  18,898.1  25,579.6  18,732.8    41,094.4   59,827.2
I.  Contingencies - 10%                        491.6       768.3  1.259.9     713.5   1.451.4   2,164.9        668.2    1 889.8   2,558.0    1,873.3     4.109.5    5 982.7
Grand Total                                 0.4°7 5    8,450.9  13   .9      .9      5.1  23   .0            .7   2     .9  2b.        20.             203.9  05,O9.9  ..4
1/ Import duties are included under losal currency costs.
2/ Directorate of Agricultural Aviation.
3/ Private operc-trs.



INDIA
AG2ICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Category                                         Unit Cost                        Year I          Year 2           Year 3         Total Projiect
Local        Foreign            Total
_ _ - - -    upees -               _          -- - - - - - - - - - - Numsers - - - - - - - - - - - - --
I.    Aircraft
A. Helicopters
Dir. of Agric. Aviation                     -          421,500         421,500               -               1               -                      1
Private Operators                           -          421,500         421,500               5              10              15                     30
Training Center                             -          421,500         421,500               3               1               -                      4
Total                                                                                      12_
B. Fixed Wing Aircraft
Dir. of Agric. Aviation                  2,800         251,250         254,050               3               3                -                     6
Private Operators                        2,800         251,250         254,050               5              14              18                     37
Commercial Fleet                                                                        T              17              1                      43
Training Center                          2,800         254,250         257,050               3               1               -
(Total Aircraft) Total                       )(_)                           -) 
II.    Vehicles;
Private Operators                       22,000              -           22,000              15              33               50                    98
Training Center                         22,000                          22,000               4               -                -                   .02
Total                                                                      19                                                    102
IIT.    Oround Supporting Equipment (Set)
Private  2perators/                      6,ooo              -            6,oo0              10               22              33                    65
Training Center                          6,ooo              -            6,000                2                              3
Total                                                                       =                2J
IV.    Safety Equipmont (Set)21
Dir. of Agric. Aviation                    350             650           1,000                3               4               -                      7
Private Operators                          350             650           1,000               10              24              33                     67
Commercial Fleet                                                                       132                             33- r
Training Center                            350             650           1,000                                2 _  2
Total                                                                                        30
V.   Aircraft Tools (Set)
Private Operators                       23,250          23,250          46,500                1               2               3                      6
Training Center                         23, 250         23,250          46,500                1               -              _                       1
Total                                                                         2               2                                      7
VI.    Specialized Agricultural Equipment
for Aircraft (Set)4/                           _           18,750          18,750                6              10              11                     27
=e             =M                                    e=M
VII.    Training Center                                                                                   - - - - - - - - - - Rupees - -            … - - - - - _
Lecture and office Building            500,000               -         500,000         400,000          100,000               _               500,000
Training Aids                               -           30,000          30,000          20,000           10,000               -                30,000
Furniture, Office Equipment            150,000               -         150,000         100,000           50,000               -               150,000
1/   1.5 Jeep per aircraft which is added to fleet, except Aviation School.
2/   One set per aircraft which is added to fleet.                                                                                                                          Hr
3/   One set per aircraft procured under the project.
/   Inclades specialized equipment for ULV spraying, dusting, fertilizer spreading,
weed control, etc.. One set for 3 aircraft.



ANNEX~5
Appendix C
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED UNIT COSTS
I. AIRCRAFT
A.   Helicopter
Basic aircraft                                  US$  45,000
Night lights             (installed)             "       880
2 shoulder harnesses     (   "    )                     390
Hour meter               (    "    )                      80
Dual controls            (It    850
Spraying equipment       (not installed)         "    3,000
Ex-factory                            US$  50,200
Crating, insurance, airfreight                   "   6,ooo
CIF India                             US$  56,200
Rs  421,500
B.  Fixed Wing Aircraft
1.   For Agricultural Operation:
Basic Aircraft                                  US$  27,000
Spraying equipment       (not installed)         it   3,000
Ex-factory                            US$  30,000
Crating, insurance, seafreight                   "'  3,500
CIF India                             US$  33,50o
Rs  251,250
Landing and Assembling:
Port charges and transport                    Rs    1,000
Unpacking, assembling (labor)                  "   1,500
Overheads                                      "       300
Ready for ferrying                    Rs  25h,050



ANNEX 5
Appendix C
Page     2
-2-
2.   For Training:
Basic aircraft                                   US$ 27,000
Dual controls             (installed)             if    400
Spraying equipment        (not installed)         it  3,000
Ex-factory                             US$ 30,400
Crating, insurance, freight                       "   3,500
CIF India                              US$ 33,900
Rs 254,250
Landing and assembling                            tt  2,800
Ready for ferrying                     Rs 257 050
II. SET OF TRAINING AIDS
Audio-visual equipment                           US$    700
Course material                                   It  2,800
Library                                           "      500
Total                  US$  h,000
Rs  30,000
(100% foreign exchpnge
cost)
III. SET OF GROUND SUPPORTING EQUIPMENT
500 gal water supply tank
135 gal chemical mix tank
2-in gasoline engine driven pump
Fuel hand pump
Accessory plumbing
Hoses                                            Rs   6000
(100% local cost)
IV. SET OF SAFETY EQUIPMENT
Pilot's crash helmet
2 Respirators
Filter cartridges
Rubber gloves
Flight suit
Rubber boots                                     Rs   l,O0O
(65% foreign exchange
cost)
V. SET OF AIRCRAFT TOOLS
Special aircraft tools                           US$      3,200
Repair station shop tools                         "       3,000
US$     6,2a)
Rs     46,500
(505% foreign exchange cost)



ANNEX 5
Appendix D
INDIA
AGRICULTuRAL AVIATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Expatriate Flight Instructors
I.   Cost per Instructor
Local       Foreign      Total
-          in Rupees 
a)   Base salary                            -        135,000    135,000
b)   Quarters, allowance, at
Rs 2,250/month                   27,000             _      27,000
c)   Car allowance, at Rs 400/month     4,800             _       4,800
d)   Educational allowance for one
child, at US$ 750 equivalent      5,625             -       5,625
e)   Round-trip air fare for family
of three with 10 kg excess
baggage                           29,700         7,425     37,125
f)   Shipment of personal effects
to and from New Delhi             4,50o          3,000      7,500
g)  Overhead on salary, 40%                 -         5,000      54,00
Total Cost per Instructor    71,625        199,425    271,050
US $ Equivalent                                        36,140
II.   Cost for Two Instructors
Rupees              US$
Rupee Component                   143,250              19,100
Foreign Exchange Component         398 850             53,180
Total                        542,100              72,280



ANNEX 5
Appendix D
Page     2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Overseas Training Program
I.   Cost per Trainee
Local       Foreign       Total
-in Rupees - - - - -
a.)  Round-trip air fare                   9,000         2,250      11,250
b)   Additional travel in country
of training                            -           2,250       2,250
c)   Tuition fee  /                           -         11,250      11,250
d)   Subsistence allowance:
i)  $10/day for six weeks,
during training                     -           3,150       3,150
ii)  $16/day for two weeks,
during observation tour
and travel                          -           1,680       1,61J0
e)  Miscellaneous expenses                    -            420         420
Total cost per trainee               9,000         21,000      30,000
US $ Equivalent                                                 4,000
II.   Cost of Training Four Flight Instructors
Rupees               US$
Rupee component                            36,000               4,8oo
Foreign exchange component                 84,000              11,200
Total                               120,000              16,000
1/ Average for rotary and fixed wing aircraft. Rates and hours of
training are as follows:
Rotary      -  US$ 70/hr for 25 hrs = $ 1750, plus $ 250 for ground inst.
Fixed wing - US$ hO/hr for 20 hrs = $ 800, plus $ 200 for ground inst.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES - STAFF TRAINING CENTER
Unit Cost                  Year    Year    Year
Category                   Local         Foreign            Total     1        2       3
- -                      Rs per Year - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project Manager                           38,000                          38,000      1       1       1
Chief Flight Instructor                   34,000                          34,000      1       1       1
Chief Engineer Instructor                 24,000                           2h,000     1       1        1
Chief Ground Instructor                   28,000            -             28,000      1       1       1
Senior Flight Instructor (Helicopter)    32,000             _              32,000     1       1        1
ft    N               (Fixed Wing)    32,000             -             32,000      1       1       1
Flight Instructor                         30,000            -              30,000     4       5        5
Engineer Instructor                       18,000            -             18,000      1       1        1
Agricultural Instructor                   15,000            -             15,000      1       1        1
Licensed Engineer                         15,000            _              15,000     2       3        3
Mechanic                                   6,000            -               6,000     8      10       10
Cleaner                                    2,400            -               2,400     8      10       10
Office Staff                               7,000            -               7,000     4       4        4
Driver                                     3,000            -               3,000     4       4        4
Peon, Guard, Sweeper                       2,000            -               2,000     6       6        6
>4



INA
AGRICULTURAL  AVIATION  PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$ (thousands)                            Rupees (thousands)
Thru    Thru    Thrii          Undis-         Thru    Thru    Thru           Uncdis-
Year  Quarter    ARC      DAA     GOI    Total  bursed         ARC      DAA     GOI    Total  bursed
1971    1st      -        _       _        _      6,000        -        -       -        -     45,000
2nd      -       -        -       -      6,000         -       -        -       -      45,000
3rd      -         11    -          11   5,989         -          83    -          83  44,917
4th      -        314       35     349   5 640         -      2,355      262   2,617  42,300
Sub-total        -         325      35      360   5,640         -      2,438     '262   2,700  42,300
1972    lst       500      125     125      750   4,890       3,750      938      935   5,626  36,674
2nd       290      14      101     405   4,485        2,175      105     758   3,038  33,636
3rd       290     285      105     680   3,805        2,175   2,137      787   5,099  28,537
4th       290      61      104     455   350          2,175      458     780   3,413  25,124
Sub-total       1,370       45 35   2,290   3,350            10,275   3,63    3,263  17,176  25,12
1973    1st       291       66     188      545   2,805        2,182     495   1,410   4,087  21,037
2nd       408    -         237     645   2,160        3,060    -       1,777   4,837  16,200
3rd       408    -         242     650   1,510        3,060    -       1,815   4,875  11,325
4th       408       59     243     710      800       3,060      442   1 823   5,325   6 000
Sub-total       1,515      125     910   2,550      800       11,362     937           19,124   6,000
1974    1st       415       65     320      800    -           3,113     487   2,400   6,000    -
Total         3,300   1,000    700   6,000    -            24,750   7,500  1L2750  45,000    -
Note:  Contingencies have been spread evenly and aie included in estimated disbursements.



AIMJTEX 7
UTIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATIONI PROJECT
Credit and Banking System
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ALRC)
1.        In 1964, the Government of India created the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (ARC) to encourage agricultural development lending operations
by providing adequate refinance facilities to lending agencies--scheduled
commercial banks, cooperative banks or land mortgage banks. After a slow
start, ARC operations have gained considerable momentum over the years
1967/68 and 1968/69.  As of October 21, 1969, ARC had sanctioned 286 schemes,
involving a total outlay of Rs 2,262 million; its commitments amounted to
Rs 1,867 million and its disbursements to Rs 39h million. Land mortgage
banks have availed themselves of ARCIs facilities to a large extent in
order to develop their oun operations. Facilities requested by commercial
banks and cooperative banks have not been significant. This reflects the
still small involvement of cooperative and commercial banks in development
credit as well as the latterst satisfactory liquidity position over the
last few years.
2.        The recent development of ARCts operations is a result of the
organization's efforts to build up a qualified staff, supplemented, when-
ever necessany, by consultants and government technicians capable of
working out and appraising agricultural development projects. ARC still
has to acquire much experience and further strengthen its staff, both in
quality and quantity, to be able to cope with agricultural developments
anticipated by the Government of India during the current Plan period0
3.        lILile ARC has always made profits it was only in 1968/69 that
it was first able to pay dividends on the paid up capital at the statutory
rate of 4-1/4%.  Its portfolio of loans, debentures and securities is
sound. Governnent loans made at the present rate of 5-1/2% wlould enable
it to meet its commitments. ARC's financial position is satisfactory,
but as the cost of its resources is increasing, its refinance rate of 6%
per annum has become inadequate.  In addition, heavy income tax at the
rate of 5510 on its net profits leaves little scope for strengthening its
financial position.  AR,Cls summary profit and loss staternents, balance sheets
and projected cashflo-w of project funds are appended, Tables 1 to 3.
Commercial Banks
4.        As a result of the recent nationalization of the leading Indian
commercial banks, the public sector commercial banks, which for over a
decade consisted onl,y of the State Bank of India and its seven subsidiaries,
have been enlarged considerably.  On the basis of data as of December 31,
1968, the public sector banks have about 6,100 offices out of about 7,500



AMNEX 7
Page 2
offices for all scheduled commercial banks; total deposits of the new public
sector commercial banks stand at about Rs 41,000 million; advances are at
Rs 27,000 million and investments at Rs 12,000 million, which account for
about 85% of the overall business of commercial banks. Remaining non-
nationalized scheduled commercial banks would account for about 13% and
non-scheduled banks for about 2%v of the overall banking business.
5.        The nationalization of commercial banks implies their compliance
with government policy directives toward planned economic growth.  First
changes in their activities, as emphasized by Government, will be an
increased tempo of their agricultural lendings, mostly to small farmers,
and of their lendings to small industry and small business.  At first,
not much direct lending to small farmers is expected, but commercial banks
would rather be called upon to finance and thereby strengthen the cooper-
ative bank system and especially the primary credit cooperative societies.
Implementation on a trial basis would start no later than March 1970 in
such states as Andhra Pradesh, Itrsore, 1-adhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana
and Uttar Pradesh.
6.       Niationalization does not seem to have caused any disturbance in
the organization, management and activities of banks concerned. The period
of social control of banks has in fact been a transitional period, during
wlhich the top management, mainly businessmen, has been replaced by profes-
sional bankers. The present situation is still an interim one. Boards
have been abolished, but not yet replaced.  Until new boards are appointed,
each bank is in charge of a custodian, a professional banker, who may be
the next chairman. According to the declarations made by the Prime 4i-nister,
the Government would not interfere in the day-to-day operations of the
nationalized banks, and these would continue to maintain their separate
identities.
7.        As of August 31, 1969, the amount of lendings to agriculture by
commercial banks was at a record high of Rs 2,309 million, a result of the
real efforts made over the last few years by many commercial banks to
develop their lending operations in agriculture. However, direct loans
to farmers, numbering about 324,,000, amounted to only about Rs 7244,G000
8.        During the 8 years ending December 31, 1968, there has been a
remarkable annual rate of growth of nearly 14,/' in deposits received by
scheduled banks, largely as a result of monetary expansion. The past rate
may be difficult to sustain but the on-going branch expansion program in
rural areas recommended by the Government may well enable the banking
system to raise some additional .'s 22,000 million over the current Five-
Year Plan (1969-1974) up to a total amount of deposits of R's 70,000 million.
Owing to such developments, it is anticipated that commercial banks will
not be confronted for some time wfith liquidity problems and that ther will
be able to increase the availability of credit to agriculturev small
industry and small business in accordance with the new lending policies
without reducing their support to large-scale business and industry.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION_ PROJECT
ARC - Balance Sheet as of June 30  1964-1969 (in Rs tOO0)
Assets                             161965              1966       1967      1968      1969
Cash in hand and banks              158       167        19         56        90        58
Loans by way of refinance             -         -     1,h70     3,030      7,349    25,495
Debentures                            -     4,500   47,531    66,729   119,038   278,554
Investments in GOI
Securities               81, 854    99,091    55,209    35,793     8, 408    5,145
Interest accrued on investments     489       423       311        265       211       129
Other assets                     20,310       594     2,033     3,117      6,247    13,451
Total Assets          102,811   104,775   106,573   108,990   141,343   322,832
Liabilities
Capital (paid-in)l/              50,000    50,000    50,ooo    50,ooo    50,000    50,000
Reserves and surplus                  1         2         3          4         5        16
Special deposit                       -     1,131     2,386      3,642     4,897     6,149
Payment by GOI
in respect of guaranteed            -       259       540      1,074     1,233     1,414
dividends
Loans from the GOI               50,000    50,000    50,000    50,000    80,000   257,500
Provision for dividends           1,910     2,125     2,125      2,125     2,125     2,125
Provision for taxation              888     1,224     1,469      2,052     2,,426    2,026
Other liabilities                    12        34        50         93       657     3,602
Total Liabilities     102,811   104,775   106,573   108,990   141,343   322,832
1/ Authorized capital:  25,000 shares of 10,000 each
Source: Annual reports of the ARC



INDIA
AG9TCULTUIIAL AVIATIOli PR4UJ ECT
ARC - Profit and Loss Accounts for the Years 1968 69 and Profit Appropriations
(in RsrOOO)
Income                                1963 64    1964 65    1965 66    1966 67   1967 68    1968 69
Interest received:
on loans and debentures              -             1      1,089       3,057     4,833      10,202
on investments                      3,751      3,997      3,257       1,925     1,170         839
Total Income            3,751      3,998      4,346       4,982      6,003     11,042
Expenditurft
Interest paid                            -          -          -           -          446       4,419
Salaries, allowances, provident
funds                             203        279        365         475       913       1,433
Yiscellaneous expenses                     96        107        119         134       297         439
Provision for taxation                  1,800      1,765      2,268       2,406     2,380       2,613
Total Expenditure        2,099     2,151       2,752      3,015      4,036      8,904
Net Profit                              1,652      1,847      1,594       1,968      1,947      2,138
Total Expenditure and Profits           3,751      3,998      4,346       4,983      5,983     11,042
Profit appropriation
Write-offs of preliminary expenses           2         2           2          2          2           2
Reserve funds                               1          1           1          1          1          11
Dividend                                1,652      1,844      1,591       1,965      1,94)4     2,125
Total Profits            1,652     1,847       1,594      1,968      1,947       2,138
ro-4



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Projected Cash Flow of IDA Funds
(In Rupees thousands)
Project Year:      2       3        4       5        6        7       8        9       10    11    Total
Cash Inflow
IDA Funds               10,275  11,362   3,113    -                                            -            24,750
Collections:
Principal              -        -       -        -      2,569   5,409   6,187   6,188   3,619  778   24,750
Interest (7%)           207      903   1,624   1,733   1,680   1 455   1,049        616      235   27    9,529
Sub-total               207      903  4         1,733   4,249            7,236    6,0 34           0    34,279
Total                   10,482  12,265   4,737   1,733   4,249   6,864   7,236   6,804   3,854  805   59,029
Cash Outflow
Disbursements           10,275  11,362   3,113    -          -       -        -        -       _       -    24,750
Repayments: 2/
Principal              -        -       -        -      2,569   5,409   6,187   6,188   3,619  778   24,750
Interest (5.5%)         163      709   1,276   1,361   1 320   1,143        824      484     184   21    7,485
Sub-total               163      709   1,276   1,361  389   6,5           7,011   67772       803  799   32,235
Total                   10,438  12,071   4,389   1,361   3,889   6,552   7,011   6,672   3,803  799   56,9 5
Net Cash Inflow                 44     194      348     372      360      312     225      132       51    6    2,044
1/   From participating coummercial banks.
2/   IDA funds to GOI.



INDIA: AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
ORGANI ZATI ON   CHART
…DIRECTOR GENERAL                                                            AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE
DOF CIVIL AVIATION   I                OF AGRICULTURE GOI                   I    CORPORATION        I
I                         ~~~~~~~~DIRECTORII
-  _ _       _      _ _       _    _ _      _      _ _   _ _    -_ -_ _ - -_ _- _ _- - _--  - - - - - - 
OF AGRICULTURAL AVIATION
OPFLRATION    |      IADMINISTRATION           DEPUTY DIRECTOR LPI                                    STORES
OPERATION                                    I/C TRAINING CENTER              MAINTENANC              SUPPLIS
PROJECT RECORDS           CHIEF INSTRUCTORS      I                         I                      I
ACCOUNTS           FLIGHT - GROUND - ENGINEER               I                      I
1 |  I       INSTRUCTORS                        I
I                         I  INFORMATION                 7 FLIGHT                          I                     I
I AGRICULTURE
I ENGINEER                                              I
3 LICENSED ENGINEERS   _
I                                                                                                                            I
I                                               I   34 MAINTENANCE AND                                                       I
|I                                              |      OTHER PERSONNEL.                                                      I
---PRIVATE OPERATORS                          COMMERCIAL BANKS
I/ COMMERCIAL SPRAYING, TESTING OF NEW METHODS, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS, DEMONSTRATIONS, PROMOTION, LOCUST CONTROL.              z
x
IBRD -4827(4R)



AN,EKr 9
AGRICULTURAL AVIATTON PROJECT
Appraisal and Lendin Policies
1.        ARC would employ DAA as consultants responsible for the technical
and operational appraisal and supervision of subborrowers.  No subloan
'would be sanctioned by AIRC without DAA's approval. DAA in collaboration
with ARC, would -work out and implement appropriate methods for the techni-
cal and operational appraisal and supervision of subborrowers.
2.        After analyzing DAAMs and the commercial bankst recommendations
ARC would prepare individual appraisal reports for approval of subloans.
Each subloan would involve a loan agreement between the commercial bank
and the borrower laying down loan size, conditions, security and other
relevant points and an agreement between ARC and the commercial bank fixing
conditions of ARCIs refinance.
3.        To help assure efficient and increased aerial plant protection,
it 'would be a condition of subloans that, private operators at the time of
appraisal, give satisfactory proof of empPloyment of trained and qualified
agricultural pilots, in numbers adequate, to operate aircraft obtained
under the projects.  Further subloans would be suspended when aircraft
were used mainly for other than project objectives neglecting agricultural
work.
4.        To help assure financial and operational viability and to protect
aircraft investment under the project:  (a) subborro'jers would purchase
coraprehensive aircraft insurance coverage, and overseas insurance in foreign
exchange at the present rate of 75 of aircraft value througlhout the lend-
ing period; (b) insurance policies would include a laoss payable clause"
under which the commnercial bank holding the policy on the iunit would be
reimbursed by the insurer; and (c) aircraft insurance policies would also
include "'breach of warranty" insurance providing that, if an operator
invalidates terms of the policy and would not be entitled to policy proceeds,
the commercial bank would receive from the insurer the outstanding amount
of the subloans on the damaged or destroyed equipment.
5e        Disbursement on capital expenditures by operators would be through
direct payments by commercial banks to suppliers against shipping or canmer-
cial documents and as detailed in the refinance agreements betwtBeen ARC and
the commercial banks. The latter would be reimbursed by ARC on proof of
payment thereof. Loan recovery from operators 'would be the responsibility
of commercial banks,, who on receipt of repayment, would, without delay,
repay to ARC that part vwhich had been refinanced by ARC under the project.



ANNEX 10
INDIA
AGRICUJLTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Returns to Aircraft Operators
1.        Existing as well as new firms are expected to participate
in the project. It is important to make a distinction between the
two because, for existing fir-s, the only incremental costs are those
arising froma direct operation and maintenance of new aircraft and
supporting equipmenit and iand vehicles.  On the other hand, all costs
of a new firm, including office overhead and other administrative ex-
penses, are incremental costs.
2.        Incremental revenues for both groups of firms are based on
projected aircraft performance growth presented in Appendix A. Oper-
ating costs are based on basic data supplied by the GOI Aviation Unit
and private operators, on estimates of manpower requirements and on the
projected growth rate of aircraft operating efficiency. Twenty percent
of each aircraft's annual flying hours would be devoted to ferrying,
testing, training and other related activities.  Thus, direct operating
costs for actual aerial spraying have been raised by 25% to arrive at
total direct aircraft operating costs. Aircraft depreciation and in-
surance are based on an estimated 10-year useful life. Insurance
premiums are derived from existing averages in India of about 25% for
helicopters and 17% for fixed wing planes, based on aircraft book values.
Both long-term and short-term interest rates have been set at an average
of 9%. Income tax provisions are at 33-1/3%, the average level reached
after exemptions and surcharges.
Returns. to Exiting. Firms
3.        For existing firms, revenue and cost estimates per new aircraft
are shown in section 1 of Appendix B. Based on these revenue and
cost projections, internal rates of return per aircraft (and its ancil-
lary equipment and land vehicles) would be: (a) helicopter, 26.7%; and
(b) fixed wing aircraft, 26.2%. These rates are for units acquired
during project year 1; the rates for those acquired in later years
should be higher because of expected improvement in the participating
firms' operating efficiency.
4.        Projected performance in terms of acres sprayed per hour
should be easily reached by operators as a result of the training pro-
gram. Annual operating or spraying hours, on the other hand, would be
subject to market fluctuations arising from erratic weather and other
environmental factors and government policy changes affecting total
demand for plant protection services and each operator's share of that
demand. To test the sensitivity of returns per aircraft to market
fluctuations, operating hours have been varied by 5%, 10%, 15%, and
20% above and below the projected figures in Appendix A. This range
(40% or about 124 hours/year in the fifth year) should cover any
probable fluctuation in demand. Within this range, the rate of return
on a fixed wing aircraft would vary from 12.6% to 39.0%, and on a



ANNEX 10
Page 2
helicopter, from 15.2% to 37.6%.  On the average, a 5% variation in
operating hours would directly change the rate of return by about 3%.
Thus, for a fixed wing aircraft, cutting operating hours by 5% reduces
the rate of return from about 26% to 23%; cutting them by 1% brings
the rate down to 20%. A summary of rates of return for the assumed
fluctuations are shown in section 2 of Appendix B.
5.        Break-even analysis of one aircraft's annual operation indi-
cates that during project year 1, required break-even operating hours would
only be 95% of expected operating hours for helicopter and 97% for fixed
wing aircraft. By the fourth year, these break-even points would fall
to 76% for helicopter and 79% for fixed wing aircraft and provide more
than enough allowance for the 20% maximum decline in annual operating
hours expected under paragraph 4, above. Due to the gradual reduction
in aircraft insurance premiums, these percentages would continue to fall
until, at the end of the assets' useful lives, they would be as low as
52% for helicopter and 62% for fixed wing aircraft.
6.        The foregoing analysis of rates of return and break-even points
on new aircraft acquired by existing firms explain their manifest desires
to expand their present fleet and thus assure their participation in the
project.
Returns to New Firms
7.        To test the financial viability of new entrants into the indus-
try, two models of agricultural aviation firms have been developed. The
first firm would own three helicopters, three fixed wing airplanes, a
hangar and an office building. Its establishment would parallel project
development (Appendix C); its first fixed wing airplane would be put into
service at the beginning of the second project year and its first heli-
copter would earn revenue for 1.5 months during the first year. The
second firm would acquire five helicopters and five fixed wing planes
but rent hangar and office building spaces. It would have efficiency
advantages over the first, both in terms of size and speed of development.
One of its helicopters and one of its fixed wing planes would be
acquired in the first year and operated for 3 months during that year. These
two model firm sizes indicate the range within which most new entities
participating in the project would fall. Their aircraft acquisition
schedule would be:
Project
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Total
6-Aircraft Firm
Helicopters                          1          1          1         3
Fixed wing planes                     1         1          1         3
Total                           2          2          2         E
10-Aircraft Firm
Helicopters                          1          2          2         5
Fixed wing planes                     1         2          2         5
Total                            2         F          F10



ANNEX 10
Page 3
8.        Appendixes D to G show projected comparative income statements,
statements of sources and application of funds and balance sheets for
both model firms. All fixed assets purchased during the first 3 years
(coinciding with the project's disbursement period) are assumed to be
financed from equal amounts of equity contribution and long-term
borrowing. Indian firms could currently maintain somewhat higher long-
term debt/equity ratios. Thus, a 50:50 ratio provides a conservative
estimate for the return on owner's equity. Working capital requirements,
financed through short-term credits, are based on an average annual
business turnover of three.
9.        On the basis of these assumptions and those cited in paragraph 2,
the two firms would have the following rates of return during the 13-year
project period:
On Total Assets        On Equity
6-Aircraft Firm                      12.2%               16.0%
10-Aircraft Firm                      18.4%               28.6%
10.       These rates of return, taken in conjunction with the year-to-
year profit and cash-flow movements indicated in Appendixes D and F should
provide adequate incentives to new firms.
11.       As a result of the project, the industry as a whole would benefit
financially and gain operational and organizational experience for further
expansion.



ANNEX 20
Appendix A
_3DTA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Projected Performance Growth per Aircraft
Project Year:
1        2        3         4         5 and later
A. Helicopter
Operating hours per year   285       290      295       300       310
Acres per hour              150      150       155      160        165
Acres per year           42,750   43,500   45,725   48sooo    51,150
B. Fixed  Sing Aircraft
Operating hours per year   285       290       295      300       310
Acres per hour              120      120       125      130       135
Acres per year           34,200   34,800   36,875   39,000   !1l850
Note:
Acres-per-hour and hours-per-year projections are based
on Indian weather and crop conditions, including expected rates of
multiple cropping, and on basic information from operators and
exDeriences of other countries. These figures reflect the inclusion
of ultra-low volume work, expected to comprise 10  to 2Go; of total oper-
ation, They further take account of work stoppages caused by accidents
pr6jected on the basis of an initial attrition rate of 7.5 aircraft per
10,000 flying hours, declining to 5 aircraft/l0,000 hours at project
maturity due to improved training.



ANNEX 10
Appendiz B
INIDIA                           Page 1
AGRICULTURAL AVILTMON PROJECT
Analyses of Operating Results Per Aircraft
1. Revenue and Cost Projections by Selected Years
(Rupees)
A.  Helicopter                   Year 1      2        3        4         5        10
Investments 1/              531 183                       1 020              1,020
Gross revenue               __10,87   435,000 257,250  480,ooo  511,500  51,500
Incremental current
costs:
Direct flying coste 3/ 19,594   79,750   81,125   82,500   85,250   85,250
Salaries                24,425   97,700   97,700   97,700   97,70C-  97,700
0 & M, land vehicle      1,125    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500
General insurance        1,401    5,605    5,605    5,605    5,6o5    5,605
Aircraft insurance 4/ 30,295  118,151  106,034   93,915   81,798   21,206
Miscellaneous 5/         4,851   19,405   19,405   19,405   19,405   19,405
Income taxes 67            148    5 483   17,093   28,258   42,518   74,826
Total                81,839  330,594  331,462  331,883  336,776  308,h92
Net profit before
depreciation and
i3nterest                25,036  104,406  125,788  148,117  174,724  203,008
Depreciation and
interest 7/              24 740   93 441   91,601   91 601   89,689   53 356
Net profit                    3296    ,9-65    l7       5616   85,035
B.   Fixed Wing Aircraft
Investments 8/             308,046                       1,020              1 020
Gross revenue 9/      6       8,400  278,400  295,000 33l,8J00  334       30
Intremental cuFrent costs:
Direct flying           11,578   47,125   47,938   48,750   50,375   50,375
costs 10/
Salaries-,land
vehicles 0 & M and   26,951  107,805  107,805  107,805  107,8n5  107,805
gen.insurance 1V
Aircraft insurance L   11,117   43,358   38,911   34,464   30,017    7,782
YNiscellaneous 5/        4,582   18,327   18,327   18,327   18,327   18,327
Income taxes  6/          (111)   2,472    9,623   16,502   25,411   39,523
Total                                  22,6087  4-  2-5488 31,935  221,ll5
Net profit before
depreciation and
interest                 14,283   59,313   72,396   86,152  102 865  110,688
Depreciation and
interest 7/              14 506   54 369   53 149   53 149   52 043   31 043
Net profit (TIss)    )        4 9 4 4
-~-                          -        -         -



LAE2YC 10
Appendix B
Page 2
Notes:
These tables are for aircraft acquired in project year 1. For those
acquired in later years, gross revenue, direct flying costs and net profit
(before and after depreciation and interest) would be higher due to in-
creased efficiency of firm management and aircraft and field personnel.
1/ Helicopter, Rs 484,725; ancillary equipment and land vehicle, Rs 46,458.
Safety equipment, at Rs 1,020, would need replacement every third year.
2/ Rs 10/acre.
3/ Rs 275 per spraying hour.
4/ 25% on book value.
5/  At 10% of all incremental costs, other than taxes, over the 10 year
asset life, distributed evenly over those years. Project year 1 assumes
25% and project year 11, 75% of these costs.
6/ At 33 1/3% of taxable income. For fixed wing aircraft, there would be
incone tax saving to the firm in the first year.
7/  Straight-line depreciation, based on 10-year life of all assets, except
safety equipmen, which has 3-year life; interest rate at 9%.
8/ Fixed wing plane, Rs 261,588; ancillary equipment and land vehicle,
Rs 46,458. Safety equipment, at Rs 1,020, need replacement every
third year.
9/ Rs 8/acre.
10/ Rs 162.50 per spraying hour.
11/ Same amounts as in helicopter.
12/ 17% on book value.



ANNEX LO
Appendix B
Page 3
2. Rates of Return under Varying Assumptions on
Effective Aircraft Operating Hours per Year
Annual Operating Hours                        Difference in
as Percentage of                  Rate        Rate of Return
Basic Projections in               of         Compared to Basic
Appendix A                       Return       Projections
A.  Helicopter          (%)                        (%)               (%)
120                       37.61         +   10.90
115                       35.05         +    8.34
110                       32.28         +    5.57
105                       29.15         +    3.24
100                       26.71               -
95                       24.19        -    2.52
90                       21.00              5.71
85                       18.06        _    8.65
80                       15.24        -   11.47
B.   Fixed Wing Aircraft
120                       39.00         +   12.77
115                       35.83         +    9.60
110                       32.63         +    6.40
105                       29.45         +    3.22
100                       26.23               _
95                       22.93        -    3.30
90                       19.59        -    6.64
85                       16.13        -   10.10
80                       12.57        -   13.66



ANEX 10
Appendix B
Page 4
3. Break-Even Analysis
Required                        Break-Even Point
Operating Hours     Projected         (Column A as
at            Operating         Percentage
Break-Even Point        Hours         of Column B) /
A                 B                  C
Helicopter
Year
1 (1/4 year)             68                71                  Y5
4=6nu1. rate         (272)             (285)                (95)
2                       268               290                  92
3                       248               295                  84
4                       229               300                  76
5                       212               310                  68
6                       203               310                  65
7                       195               310                  63
8                       186               310                  60
9                       177               310                  57
10                       168               310                  54
11 (3/4 year)            121               232                  52
Annual rate           (161)             (310)                (52)
Average                                                         68
Fixed Wing Aircraft
Year
1 (1/4 year)             69                71                  97
Annual rate          (276)             (285)                (97)
2                       273               290                  94
3                       254               295                  86
4                       238               300                  79
5                       223               310                  72
6                       218               310                  70
7                       213               310                  69
8                       208               310                  67
9                       203               310                  65
10                       198               310                  64
11 (3/4 year)            146               232                  62
Anniual rate         (195)             (310)                (62)
Average                                                         74
1/  These figures indicate the percentage of projected operating hours
that should be attained to enable an existing firm to recover all
incremental costs related to the operation of a new aircraft acquired
in project year 1.



ANNEX 10
Appendix C
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Projected Build-Up of Commercial Aircraft Inventory
Project                               Summary
Category                            Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Years 1-3
*...........Aircraft ,4umbers.,*,,****9,G0.
Helicopter
Opening ij.ventory                   32 1/         37            48            32
Net addition                          5            11            15            31
Ending inventory               37             48            63            63
Fixed WIing Aircraft
Opening inventory                    41 1/          6            57            41
Net addition                          5            11            18            34
Ending inventory                46            57            75            ?5
Total ending invientory        83            105           138          138
Total net addition             10             22            33            65
(Replacements)  2/             (3)            (6)          (-)           (9)
1/ Estimate as of June 30, 1970: 73 aircraft in operation.
2/ Fixed iLng aircraft only.



I:.DIA - AGRICULTUiRAL AVIATION PROJECT
Agricultural Aircraft Operator
Income Forecast
(New Firm: 3 Helicopters; 3 Fixed Ming Planes)
Project
Year
1            2             3           4            5           6           7            8           9           10         11            12         13
Gross Revenue                                53,438      1,070,100    1,880,625   2,376,000    2,538,900   2,538,900   2,538,900    2,538,900   2,538,900    2,538,900  2,474,962    1,269,450    423,150
Operating Costs:
Fuel and lubrication                       4,050         89,760      152,130     185,625      191,895     191,895     191,895      191,895     191,895      191,895    187,485        95,865     32,010
Maintenance, spares and overhaul          5,400          89,760      152,130     185,625      191,895     191,895     191,895      191,895     191,895      191,895    186,015        95,865     32,010
Outstation expenses                         450         10,880        18,440      22,500       23,260      23,260      23,260       23,260      23,260       23,260     22,770        11,620      3,880
Salaries and mges                        312,700        556,o00      748,300     819,000      819,000     819,000     819,000      819,000     819,000      819,000   819,000        545,400    215,600
Aircraft insurance                       15,148         246,962     387,765      429,178      379, 483    329,788     280,093      230,397     180,702      131,006     81,313       33,130      10,506
Other insurance                           7,352         20,590        31,615      35,370       35,370      35,370      35,370       35,370      35,370       35,370     35,130        20,105      8,080
Land vehicle 0 & M                        6,ooo          21,000       28,500      33,000       33,000      33,000      33,000       33,000      33,000       33,000     33,000        21,000     12,000
Miscellaneous costs                       35,110        103,535      151,888     171,030      167,390     162,421     157,451      152,482     147,512      142,543    136,471        82,298     31,409
Total aurrent operating cost        386,210      1,138,887    1,670,768   1,881,328    1,841,293   1,786,629   1,731,964    1,677,299   1,622,634    1,567,969  1,501,184        905,283    345,495
Net Oper. Profit (Loss) before
Depreciation                        (332,772)       (68,787)     209,857     494,672      697,607     752,271     806,936      861,601     916,266       970,931    973,778      364,167     77,655
Depreciation                             27 7           17 633      231 45L2714.o96          27LL. 096    2711.096                                   6 .-2)4s06             '                    50j,77J 2
Net Operating Profit (Loss)                (359,848)     (216,420)      (21,717)  220,576        423,511     478,175    532,8140      587,55      642,170      696, 83     710,21,204               26,88
Financial Costs:
Interest on long-term loans              18,584         72,526      110,086      129,113      129,113     107,594      86,075       64,557      32,278                    -
Interest on short-term  loans            17,379         63,836       94,572       97,740       71,298      46,623      11,964         -
Total financial cost                 35,963         136,362      204,658     226.853      200,411     154,217      98,039       64,557      32,278         -           -
Net Profit (Loss) before Tax               (395,811)      (352,782)    (226,375)     (6,277)     223,100     323,958     434,801      522,948     609,892       696,835    710,259      221,204     26,883
Provision for Income Tax-                                                                                                             174.316     203.297       232.278    236,753       73,735      8.961
Net Income (Loss)                            95,811)      (352,782)    (226,375)     (6t277)    223,100      323,958     434,801      348,632     406,595       464,557    473.506      147,469     17,22
Projected Sources and Application of Funds
Sources of Funds
Equity                                   566,927        444,831      422,832        -            -
Long-term loans                          566,926        444,832      422,831        -            -
Short-term loans                         422,173        508,411      264,976
Operating profit before depreciation                                 209,857     494,672      697,607     752,271    806,936       861,601     916,266       970,931    973,778      364,167     77.655
Total                              1,556,026      1,398,074    1,328,496     494,672      697,607     752,271     806,936      861,601      916,266      970,931    973,778      364,167     77,655
Application of Funds
Investments in fixed assets            1,133,853        889,663      845,663       1,020        3,o60       2,040       1,020        3,060        2,040        1,020      1,020
Operating losses before depreciation     332,772         68,787
Income tax                                                                                                                         174,316      203,297      232,278    236,753       73,735       8,961
Debt service -
Long-term - repayment                                                                      239,098     239,098     239,098      358,648      358,647
interest                   18,584         72,526      110,086     129,113      129,113     107,594      86,075        64,557      32,278
Short-term - repayment                                                        101,674      200,738     356,916      468,779       67,453        -
interest                  17,379         63,836       94,572      97,740       71,298      46,623      11,964          -           -
Increase in cash and other
current assets                         53,438        303,262      270,175     165,125       54,300        -           -          193,567     320,004      737,633    736,005      290,432      68,694
Total                             1,556,026      1,398,074    1,320,496     494,672       697,607     752,271     8Q6,936      861,601     916,266       970,931    973,778      34,167      77,5



INDIA - AGRICULIURAB IJIAT1ON PROJECT
kgricultn*a1 Aircraft Operator
Proj ected CmaaieBlneSet
(New Firm   3 Helicopters; 3 Fixed Wing Planes)                                    (as of end of year)
Project
Year
1            2           3           4            5          6          7            8           9           10           11          12          13
ASSETS
Current Assets                     53,438      356,700     626,875     792,000      846,300    846,300    846,300    1,039,867   1,359,871    2,097,504   2,833,509   3,123,941   3,192,635
Fixed Assets - at Book Yaluie 1/
Helicopters                    478,666      890,682   1,254,226   1,108,809      963,391    817,973    672,556      527,138     381,721       236,303      96,945      24,236         -
FW planes                      261,588      483,938     680,129     601,652      523,176    444,700   366,223       287,747      209,270      130,794      52,318      13,080         -
Other fixed assets             366,523      474,187     528,541     479,359      432,217    384,055   334,873       287,731     239,569       190,387     145,722     114,706     101,250
Total fixed assets        1,106.777    1,848,807   2,462,896   2,189,820    1,918,784  1,646,728  1,373,652    1,102,616      830,560      557,484     294,985     152,022     101,250
Total Assets                    1.160,215    2,205,507   3.089,771   2,981.820    2,765,084  2,493,028  2,219,952    2.142.483   2,190.431    2,654,988   3,128,494   3,275,963   3,293,885
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities               422,173      930,584   1,195,560   1,093,886      893,148    536,232     67,453          -           _-                       -                        -
Long-term Liabilities             566,926    1,011,758   1,434,589   1,434,589    1,195,491    956,393    717,295      358,647                      -           -           -            -
Equity:
Capital stock                  566,927   1,011,758   1,434,590   1,434,590    1,434,590  1,434,590  1,434,590    1,434,590   1,434,590    1,434,590   1,434,590   1,434,590   1,434,590
Retained earnings (deficit)   (395,811)    (748,593)   (974,968)   (981,245)    (758,145)  (434,187)       614      349,246      755,841    1,220,398   1,693,90k   1,8k1,373   1,859,295
Total or net eqaity         171,116      263,165     459,622     453,345      676,445  1,000,403  1,435,204    1,783,836   2,190,431    2,654,988   3,128,494   3,275,963   3,293,885
Total Liabilities and Equity    1,160,215    2,205,507   3,089,771   2,981,820    2,765,084  2,493,028  2,219,952    2,142,483   2,190,431    2,654,988   3,128,494   3,275,963   3,293,885
Schedule of Fixed Assets
a)  Helicopters                   484,725      969,450   1,454,175   1,454,175    1,454,175  1,454,175  1,454,175    1,454,175   1,454,175    1,454,175  1,454,175        969,450     484,725
Less: Allowance for Depr        6,059       78,768     199,949     345,366      490,784    636,202    781,619      927,037   1,072,454    1,217,872  1,357,230       945,214      484,725
Net Book Value              478,666      890,682   1,254,226   1,108,809      963,391    817,973    672,556       527,138     381,721      236,303       96,945      24,236        -
b)  Fixed Wing Planes             261,588      523,176     784,764     7814,7614    784,764    784,764    784,764       784,764     784,764      784,764     784,764      523,176     261,588
Less: Allowance for Depr         -          39,238     104,635     183,112      261,588    340,064    418,541       497,017     575,494      653,970     732,446      510,096     261,588
Net Book Value              261,588      483,938     680,129     601,652      523,176    444,700   366,223        287,747     209,270      130,794       52,318      13,080        -
c) Other fixed assets:
Safety equipment              2,040        4,080       6,120       6,120        6,120      6,120      6,120         6,120       6,120        6,120       6,120        4,080       2,040
Ground supporting equipment 12,000        24,000      36,000      36,ooo       36,ooo     36,000     36,ooo        36,ooo      36,0oo       36,000      36,000       36,000      36,000
Special agricultural equipt    -          19,310      38,620      38,620       38,620     38,620     38,620        38,620      38,620       38,620       38,620      38,620      19,310
Land vehicles                66,0°0      176,000     242,000     242,000       242,000    242,000    242,000      242,000     242,000      242,000      242,000     154,000      88,000
Hangar                      120,000      120,000     120,000     120,000       120,000    120,000    120,000      120,000     120,000      120,000      120,000     120,000     120,000
Office buildings            150,000      150,000     150,000     150,000      150,000    150,000    150,000       150,000     150,000      150,000      150,000     150,O0O     150,000
Furniture and fixtures       37,500       37,500      37,500      37,500       37,500      37,500     37,500       37,500      37,500       37,500      37,500      37,500       37,500
Total                    387,540      530,890     630,240    630,240       630,240    630,240    630,240       630,240     630,240      630,240      630,240     540,200     452,850
Less: Allowance for Depr-    21,017         56,703     101,699     150,881      198,023    246,185    295,367       342,509     390,671      439,853      484,518     425,494     351,600
Net Book Value           366,523      474,187     528,541     479,359      432,217    384,055    334,873       287,731     239,569      190,387      145,722     114,706     101,250



INDIA - AGR'SUL7URAL AVIATION PROJECT
Agricultural Aircraft Operator
mncome Forecast
(New Firm: 5 Helicopters; 5 Fixed Wing Planes)
Project
Year
1           2           3            4           5            6           7            8           9           10          11           12
Gross Revenue                  175,275   1,426,800   3,009,000   3,960,000   4,231,500   4J;231,500   4,231,500   4j231,500   4,231,500   4,231,500   4,019,625   2,538,900          846,300
Operating Costs:
Fuel and lubrication         14,685     119,625     253,375      309,375     319,770      319,770     319,770     319,770      319,770      319,770     303,765      191,730      64,020
Maintenance, spares
and overhaul               14,685     119,625     243,375      309,375     319,770      319,770     319,770     319,770      319,770      319,770     303,765      191,730      64,020
Outstation expenses
to                          1,780      14,500      29,500       37,500      38,760       38,760      38,760       38,760      38,760       38,760      36,820       23,240        7,760
Salaries arni wages         339,700     691,600   1,073,400   1,205,800   1,205,800   1,205,800   1,205,800   1,205,800   1,205,800   1,205,800   1,125,800          833,000      442,200
Aircraft insurance           41,413     327,161     625,333      724,724     641,898      559,073     476,247      393,421     310,596      227,771     144,945       66,260       16,565
Other insurance               9,110      29,585       51,880      57,790      57,790       57,790      57,790       57,790      57,790       57,790      52,493       35,620       13,200
Land vehicle O,M              5,250      24,000      42,000       51,000      51,000       51,000      51,000       51,000      51,000       51, 000     49,500       33,000       15,000
Rental - bldg and hanger   13,500        13,500       13,500      13,500      13,500       13,500      13,500       13,500      13, 500      13,500       13,500      13,500        6,750
Miscellaneous                44,012     133,960      232,236     270,906     264,829      256,546     248,264      239,981     231,699      223,416      203,059     138,808       62,952
Total current
operating coat         484,135   1,I73,556   2,554,599   2,979,970   2,913,117   2,822,009   2,730,901   2,639,792   2,548,685   2,457,577   2,233,647   1,526,888           692,467
Net Oner. Profit (Loss)
tefore Depreciation      (308,860)   ( 46,756)    454,401      980,030   1,318,383   1,409,491   1,500,599   1,591,708   1,682,815   1,773,923   1,785,978   1,012,012          153,833
Less: Depreciation           25,978    175,554      344,673      428,750     428,749      428,750     428,749      428,750     428,749      428,750      405,771     256,196       85,576
Net Operating Profit (Loss)  (334,838)   (222,310)    109,728       551,280      889,634     980,741   1,071,850   1,162,958   1,254,066   1,345,173   1,380,207        755,816       68,257
Financial Costs:
Interest in long-term
loans                     11,974       78,908     154,583      192,204     192,204      153,763     115,322       76,881      38,441         -            -           -            -
Interest on short-term
loans                     21,786       71,239     110,468      101,490      39,942        6,320        -            -           -
Total financial cost      33,760      150,147     265,051      293,694     232,146      160,083     115,322       76,881      38,441               -                  -            -
Net Profit (Loss) before
Tax                         (368,598)   (372,457)   (155,323)    257,586      657,488      820,658      956,528   1,086,077   1,215,625   1,345,173   1,380,207        755,816      68,257
Provision for Income Tax                                                           6,232     273,553     318,843      362,026      405,208     448,391      460,069      251,939      22,752
Net Profit (Loss)             (368,598)   (372,457)   (155,323)    257,586      651,256      547,105     637,685      724,051      810,417     896,782      920,138      503,877      45,505
Projected Sources and Application of Funds
Sources of Funds
Equity                      442,927      856,663     836,oo0
Long-term loans             442,926      856,663     836,008
Short-term loans            517,895      497,228     338,050
Operating profit
before depreciation         -            -        4555,01      980,030   1,318,383   1,409,491   1,500,599   1,591,708   1,682,815   1,773,923   1,785,978   1,012,012   ',153,833
Total                  1,403,748   2,210,554   2,464,467      980,030   1,318,383   1,409,591   1,500,599   1,591,708   1,682,815   1,773,923   1,785,978   1,012,012           153,833
Application of Funds
Investments in fixed assets 885,B53   1,713,326   1,672,016         2,040       4,080        L,080       2,0o0        5,080       4,o80        2,040       4,o80         -           -
Operating losses before
depreciation             308,860       46,756         -          -
Income tax                                                                      6,232      273,553     318,85,3     362,026      405,208     44,391    46o,069         251,939      22,752
Debt servi,e                                                                                                                      219
Long-term-repayment          -           -            -          -         427,120      527,120     427,119      127,119      427,119
interest        11,974       78,908     155,583      192,2015    192,2053    153,763      115,322       76,881      38,541
Short-term-repayment         -           -            -        367,296      .58,305     527,572         -           --
interest        21,786       71,239     110,!!68    101,590       39,952        6,320        -            -
Tncrease in cash and
other current assets      175,275     300,325      527!400     317,000      90,500   1,373,083      637,275      721,602      807,967   1,323,492   1,321,829       760,073     131,081       ,0
Total                   1,L03?8  2,10,L5551   26,467           9          1,31,381                                                                               1,012,012
_____________________   ___    980,030_  3          3 1,509,5i91   1,800,599   1,691,70     ,6215 1,773,923   1,785,.978   10212                153,833



INDIA - AIRIGULTURiLL AVI4T19N PR0JlT
Agricultural Aircraft Operator
Projected Comparative Balance Sheets
(as of end of year)
(New Firm: 5 Helicopters; 5 Fixed Wing Planes)
Project
Year
1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10          11           12          13
ASSETS
Current Assets                175,275     475,600  1,003,000   1,320,000   1,410,500   1,527,583   2,164,858   2,886,460   3,694,427   5,017,919   6,339,748   7,0u9,821   7,230,902
Fixed Assets - at Book Value 1/
Helicopt*rs               472,607   1,345,112   2,120,672   1,878,309   1,635,947   1,393,584   1,151,222      908,859     666,497     424,134     193,890       48,472        -
FW planes                  255,0B8    725,906   1,144,447   1,013,653      882,859     752,065     621,271     490.477     359,683     228,889     104 635       26159         -
Other fixed assets        132,220    326,629    559,871    406,318         354,805     303,292     249,739     198,226     146,713      93,160      455,967      13 665       2,720
Total fid. assets        859,875   2,397,647   3,724,990   3,298,280   2,873,611   2,448,941   2,022,232   1,597,562   1,172,893      746,183     344,492      88,296       2,720
Total Assets                1,035,150   2,873,247   4,727,990   4,618,280   4,284,111   3,976,524   4,187,090   4,484,022   4,867,320   5,764,102   6,684,240   7,188,117   7,233,622
LIABILlTIES AND EQUITZ
Current Liabilities           517,895   1,015,123   1,353,173     985,877     427,572              -           -           -            -           -                 -           -
Long-term Liabilities         442,926   1,299,589   2,135,597   2,135,597   1,708,477   1,281,357     854,238     427,119        -            -           -           -           -
Equity:
Capital stock             442,927   1,299,590   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598   2,135,598
Retained earnings
(deficit)              (368,598)   (741,055)   (896,378)   (638,792)      12,464     559,569   1,197,254   1,921,305   2,731,722   3,628,504   4,548,642   5,052,519   5,098,024
Total or net equity       74,329     558,535   1,239,220   1,496,806   2,148,062   2,695,167   3,332,852   4,056,903   4,867,320   5,764,102   6,684,240   7,188,117   7,233,622
Total Liabilities and gquity 1,035,150   2,873,247   4,727,990   4,618,280   4,284,111   3,976,524   4,187,090   41484,022   4,867,320   5,764,102   6,684,240   7,188,117   7,233,622
4/ Schedule of Rxed Assets:
a)  Helicopters               484,725   1,454,175   2,523,625   2,423,625   2,523,625   2,523,625   2,423,625   2,423,625   2,523,625   2,423,625   2,423,625   1,938,900      969,450
Less: Allowance for depr   12,118     109,063     302,953    555,316      787,678   1,030,041  1,272,403   1,514,766   1,757,128  1i999,491   2,229,735   1,890,428        969,450
Net Book Value          472,607   1,3455112   2,120,672   1,878,309   1,635,947   1,393,584   1,151,222     908,859     666,497      424,134     193,890      48,472        -
b) Fixed wing plane           261,588     784,764   1,307,940   1,307,940   1,307,940   1,307,950   1,307,950   1,307,950   1,307,940   1,307,940   1,307,940  1,046,352       523,176
Less:. Allowance for depr   6,540      58,858     163,493     294,287     425,081     555,875    686,669      817,463      948,257  1,079,051  1,203,305  1,020,193        523,176
Net Book Value          255,048     725,906   1,144,447   1,013,653     882,859     752,065     621,271     490,477      359,683     228,889     104,635      26,159        -
c)  Other fixed assets:
Safety equipomnt          2,040       6,120     10,200       10,200      10,200      10,200      10,200       10,200      10,200      10,200      10,200      10,200       6,120
Ground support equipnmnt 12,000      36,o0o      60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000       60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000       60,000
Special agr. equipment     -         38,620      57,930      57,930      57,930      57,930      57,930       57,930      57,930      57,930      57,930       57,930      19,310
Land vehicles            88,000     242,000     374,000     374,000     374,000     374,000     374,000      374,000     374,000     375,000     374,000      252,000     110,000
Furniture, fixtures
and tools              37,500      37,500      37,500      37,500      37,50o      37,500      37,500       37,500      37,500      37,500      37,500       37,500      37,500
Total                   139,550     360,240     539,630     539,630     539,630      539,630     539,630     539,630     539,630     539,630     539,630      407,630     232.930
Less: Allowance for depr    7,320      33,611      79,759     133,312     184,825     236,338     289,891      341,404     392,917     446,470     493,663     393,965      230,210
Net Book Value            132,220     326,629     459,871    406,318      354,805      303,292     249,739     198,226     246,713      93,160       45,967      13,665       2,720



ANE)l 11
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION1 PROJECT
EconDmic Justification
Project's Basic Features
1.        Expansion and modernization of India's agricultural aviation fleet
would quadruple total acreage aerially sprayed by the end of the 5-gear
project development period, from 1.5 million acres (1968,/69) to 6.4 million
acres (Annex 2, Table 1), of which about 3.4 million acres would be gener-
ated by new aircraft procured under the project (Appendix A). Aerial plant
protection would improve crop yields through reduction in field losses
caused by pests and diseases and, in cases where farms could receive ground
treatment, increase effectiveness and reduce average cost of plant protec-
tion services.
2.        The projected rise in total acreage aerially sprayed stems from
two basic causes: (a) increase in the number of agricultural aircraft
and (b) improvement in the overall efficiency of India's agricultural
aviation industry. Increased efficiency would result, first of all, from
better organization at three important levels of operation:   private op-
erators, GOI aviation unit and state governments. Improved coordination
among these groups, a campaign to inform farmers of the availability and
advantages of aerial plant protection, and a realistic GOI policy aimed
at translating potential markets into effective demand for these services
should insure full utilization of all aircraft acquired under the project
as well as those comprising the present fleet. Efficiency improvement
would also result from the project's training scheme fcr. agricultural pilots
and maintenance engineers by raising the acreage each aircraft can spray
annually. It would further result from the greater competition generated
by the industry's expansion, by inducing fleet owners to seek new cost-
saving methods of operation. In addition to increasing annual acreage,
these efficiency factors would allow reduction in charges to farmers due
to lower operators'costs.
India's Rising Need for Plant Protection
3.        India's rising need for plant protection services has resulted,
among other things, from the country's growing adoption of new high-yielding
grain varieties, intensively cropped in larger and contiguous tracts, which
provide insect pests greater food supplies in concentrated areas. These
could significantly raise insect populations by improving their survival
rates, as well as provide hospitable environment for disease growth.
4.        Entomologists observe that if an insect specie has a 1->nonth
life cycle, all progeny survive, and a 1:1 sex ratio exists, one female
laying 200 eggs would generate 20,000 mature insects after 2 montis... In
a year's time, this population would rise to two septillion (2 x 10 24) __



ANNEX 11
Page   2
a swarm that could cover the earth's entire land surface at least 81 feet
deepS Fortunately, this has never happened because normal death rates among
insects generally keep pace with their birth rates, leaving their popula-
tion relatively stable. '2'ood shortages and other environmental constraints
usually keep survival rates at about 12$, just replacing the
200 eggs' parents and keeping down the number of adult insects.
5.        Increasing food supplies would relax one of these environmental
constraints and raise the progeny's overall survival rate'.  Even if only
1% more progeny could survivethere would be a doubling of total adult popu-
lation every month; at this geometric rate, insect population would rise
over 2,000 times in 1 year.    This explains how a relatively slight altera-
tion in environmental constraints could result in severe epidemics within
a short time.
6.        Cultivation and cropping of once untilled lands are generally ac-
companied by destruction of natural wild flora. Consequently, some insects
lose their natural hosts and move or perish while those that have depended
upon the cultivated crops increase in number. Surviving species
increase but nonetheless keep their stable populations at new plateaus so
long as yields are low and intensive multiple cropping is not adopted.
But the introduction of new seeds and better irrigation facilities have
enabled farmers to grow several crops of the same high-yielding breeds
continuously each year, and greatly improve the environment in which in-
sect pests thrive. The once harsh dwelling area which kept population
levels in check has become a very hospitable home with abundance for all,
and more. Because insects are so prolific, this means an astronomic rise
in their number -- an epidemic.
7.        To offset the effects of this environmental phenomenon and re-
store the old equilibrium requires specific action, such as application
of chemicals, biological parasites or other agents to destroy pests or at
least keep their population at previous non-epidemic levels.
Superiority of Aerial to Ground Treatment
8.        For plant protection to be truly effective, it is often necessary
to treat wide areas simultaneously and at certain appropriate times. If
neighboring plots remain untreated, surviving pests from these tracts can
migrate to treated areas once the chemicalst potency wears off. In addi-
tion, plants respond best to treatment at certain stages of growth. There-
fore, unless ground equipment can be operated continuously on a massive
scale, the effectiveness of ground treatment is severely reduced. Avail-
able evidence in India indicates that this continuous massive ground opera-
tion is not only expensive but also currently unattainable because of short-
age of equipment and trained workers required to do the task. Aerial treat-
ment, on the other hand, can achieve these objectives faster, more cheaply
and more evenly, resulting in better utilization of available chemicals,
manpower and capital resources.



Page   3
9.        In addition to the superiority of aerial to ground treatment in
cases where both can be used, there are areas where ground-operated equip-
ment is not practicable. These areas ijclude those where plants have reached
a luxuriant growth stage, with fruits or flowers in bloom, so that to maneu-
ver among them without doing much damage is rather difficult, if not com-
pletely impossible. Moreover, some crops cannot have their tops sprayed
from the ground. In these instances, only aerial application is practicable.
Primary Benefits and Costs
10.       The project's contribution to India's economic welfare represents
the stream of incremental net benefits generated by aircraft financed under
the project, over the project's 13-year life. These net benefits would be
due not only to the expanded acreage receiving aerial treatment but also
to increases in per-acre yields of treated areas. Project acreage has
been derived on the basis of efficiency growth assumptions shown in Appen-
dix A, Annex 10. As a result of systematic pilot and engineer training and
organizational improvements under the project, aircraft performance would
rise, reaching a plateau in project year 5.  By type of aircraft, these
5-year increases, in terms of annual acreage, would be: helicopter, 19.6%,
or compound annual growth rate of 4.6%; fixed wing aircraft, 22.4%, or com-
pound annual growth rate of 5.2%.
11.       Net benefit per acre of aerial spraying depends on whether antici-
pated project areas can be effectively sprayed from the ground or not. Net
benefits from aerial spraying are greater where ground methods are not prac-
ticable. Total project benefits would, therefore, depend upon how much of
total project area can possibly be treated from the ground.
12.       Crop yield estimates, with and without the project, are based on
experiments conducted by the National Council of Applied Economic Research
(NCAER)!/ on pesticide application by ground equipment. For project evalu-
ation purposes, these NCAER figures are conservative inasmuch as (a) ab-
solute yields have increased following adoption of new improved seed vari-
eties since completion of the NCAER experiments, (b) these new varieties
are generally more vulnerable to pests and diseases, and (c) their more
intensive cultivation has further increased this vulnerability. To derive
yield estimates for aerial treatment, NCAER's ground-spraying yields were
raised by 5%, a conservative estimate of the superiority of aerial over
ground treatment, both in terms of international experience and of prevail-
ing conditions in India (Appendix B).
13.       Another advantage of aerial over ground spraying is lower cost.
This is mainly due to reduction in chemical cost per acre of about Rs 2.00 --
Rs 12/acre for ground sprayinig vs. Rs 10/acre for aerial spraying (Annex 12).
1/ Pesticides in Indian Agriculture, New Delhi, 1967, xiii and 146 pp.



ANNEX 11
Page   4
Cost of application, exclusive of chemicals, would result in cost saving
of about Rs 0.47 -- Rs 7.20/acre for ground methods and Rs 6.73/acre for
aerial application.
14.       Labor costs are based on estimates submitted by the GOI aviation
unit, private operators and the GOI Directorate of Economics and Statistics.
It is possible that economic rents have been included in projected salaries
of agricultural pilots since alternative employment opportunities would
offer them lower remuneration. These alternative employments are the Indian
Air Force and non-scheduled chartered flights, in both cases paying lower
salaries than agricultural aviation. However, the unique training required
for agricultural pilots makes their labor market a special one. In addition,
India has an acute shortage of this skill due to the discouragingly high risk
associated with the 'lo-altitude flyinC required.
15.       Other wage rates are based on India averages. For skilled workers,
like maintenance engineers, accountants, field officers, mechanics and op-
erators of ground equipment, labor costs are based on estimated opportunity
cost in alternative employments.  For unskilled workers, like drivers, office
helpers, flagmen and cooks,    prevailing basic wage rates have been used.
Quantitative Analysis
16.       The project's economic rate of return tends to be high since, at
present farming intensity levels, the introduction of a single input -- in
this case, aerial plant protection -- generates substantial incremental out-
puts vis a vis incremental inputs. At the farm level, the evaluation of
benefits to farmers has been expressed in increnc-nt2. profit;
(Alnnex 12,  AppenCixes A and B).   For the entire
project, internal rates of return have been derived under assumptions of
the most probable and most realistically conservative levels of benefits.
17.       The most probable case would be for total acreage, crop yields
and crop acreage allocation to be as projected, with half of the project
acreage being accessible to ground treatment. The limiting, most conserva-
tive case would be where, as a result of project acreage falling short of
basic projections and allocation of project acreage shifting in favor of
lower, benefit crops (e.g., paddy and cotton), only about 500, ox expected bene-
fits could be realized, and where as much as 80% of aerially treated acreage
could be treated from the ground, further reducing benefits.
18.       Based on these assumptions, the project's most probable economic
rate of return would exceed 100%. At the conservative limit, the rate would
be about 44% (details in Appendixes C and D).



ANNEX 11
Page5
Other Benefits
19.       At the level of private operators, the project would provide em-
ployment to different groups of skilled, semi-skilled and unskiUed workers.
It would afford training and experience to operators, pilots, maintenance
engineers and field officers required for further expansion of the industry
after project termination. It would make farmers more appreciative of the
financd;al advantages of plant protection in general and aerial plant pro-
tection in particular, thus serving as catalyst for future market growth.
20.       Most of the crops benefited are now being imported.  If one
assumes that if there were no project,about 50% of incremental output gene-
rated by the project would have to be imported, India's net 2oreign exchange
savin;,s would be at least US$, 1.3 million annually at full project develop-
ment.
21.       The project is the first stage of a long-term program of plant
protection throughout India and, in that context, should have strong cata-
lytic effects on an important agricultural input required for more efficient
cultivation of new foodgrain and commercial crop varieties. It should play
an important part in the country's overall program of achieving self- -
sufficiency in those crops, and thus make a major contribution to India's
agricultural economy.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATI0LI PROJECT
Crop Allocation
Project
Yr. 1                    3           4      5 to 10       11        12         13
--- ------------TIOUSAND ACRESS-
Paddy (30%)              8.0      309.3       690.5       949.5   1,o15.6   1,006.0       647.3     228.1
Wheat (7%)                1.9      72.2       163.0       221.6      237.0      234.7     151.0       53.2
Jowar (8%)               2.1       82.5       186.3       253.2      270.8     268.3      172.6      60.8
Groundnuts (10%)         2.7      103.1       232.8       316.5      338.5     335.3      215.8      76.0
Cotton (25%)             6.7      257.7       582.1       791.2      846.3     838.3      539.4     190.1
Sugarcane (14%)          3.7      144.3       326.0       443.1      473.9     469.5      302.1     106.4
Potato (1%)-             0.3       10.3        23.3        31.6       33.9      33.5       21,6        7.6
Rubber (5%)              1.3       51.5       116.4       158.2      169.3     167.7      107.9       38.0
Total              26.7   1,030.9      2,328.3    3,165.0    3,385.2   3,353.2   2,157.6       760.3
NOTE:  Columns may not exactly add up to total figures due to rounding off.
CDH



ANIEX 11
Appendix B
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATIIN PROJECT
Yields and Pricea
I.  Incremental Yields due to One Aerial Treatment
Instead of
Crops                      Over no Treatment         Ground Treatment
---kg per acre---------------
Paddy                              88.67                   21.62
Wheat                             192.00                   47.00
Jowar (Sorghum)                   118.00                   37.00
Groundnut                         129O0Q                   28.00
Cotton                             48.23                    6.68
Sugarcane                       2,924.00                  900.45
Potato                            243.00                   46.23
Rubber                             50.00
Sources:  National Council of Applied Economic Research,
Pesticides in Indian Agriculture (New Delhi, 1967);
Directorate of Economics.aud Statistics, Ministry
of Food, Agriculture, CD and Cooperation; Mission's
estimates.
II. Prices
US$                     Rs
--      per m ton-----------
Rice (Paddy)                       72.33                  542.50
Wheat                              65.00                  487.50
Jowar                              55.00                  412.50
Groundnut                         1140.0                  713.70
Cotton                            187.00                1,420.00
Sugarcane                           -                       50.00
Potato                              -                   7,800.00
Rubber                            440.00                3,300.00



ANEX 11
Appendix B
Page 2
These are based on the following basic sources:
Rice (milled) -        CIF Bombay, US$ 110/~, ton and CIF Madras,
US$ 107/m ton; average of US$ 108.50/r  ton
used. At clean rice/paddy conversion rate
of 66-2/3%, and assuming that value of by-
products pay for processing cost, this is
equivalent to US$ 72.33/m ton of naddy.
Wheat -                CIF Bombay, US$ 65/m ton.
Jowar -                CIF Bombay, uS$ 55/m ton.
Groundnut (shelled) - CIF Europe - US$ 210/long ton, 1969;
US$ 165/long ton, 1975; US$ 160/long ton,
1980; average of 1975 and 1980 used.
Conversion rate:
Shelled nuts = 70% of unshelled nuts,
by weight. Freight, handling and shell-
ing costs estimated at 15% of -value, of
unshelled nuts.
Cotton -               CIF Europe - US$ 0.258/lb, 1973,used.
Equivalent to US$ 189.20ia ton.
Conversion rate: lint - 33-1/3% of seed
cotton, by weight. Seed assumed to
cover processing and handling costs.
Sugarcane -            Domestic average price.
Potato -              Domestic average price.
Rubber -               International quotations of 24 ¢/lb for
1970 and 25.4 ¢/lb for 1969, scaled down
to 20 ¢/lb to provide for declines and
freight and handling costs.



ANNEX 11
Appendix C
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Ben&fit-Cost S'treams
Benefits                Net Benefits
Most        Very          Most         Very
Project            Probable   Conservative   Probable   Conservative
Year     Costsl/   Case          Case          Case         Case
-Rs '000-----------------------------
1      10,897     1,534           637       -9,363      -10,260
2      35,011    59,294        24,664       24.,283     -10,347
3      60,132   133,936        55,712       73,804       -4,420
h      59,832   182,048        75,725      122,216        15,893
5      62,000   194,737        81,Oo4      132,737       19,004
6      61,595   194h,737       81,004      133,142       19,409
7      61,180   194,737        81,004      133,557       19,824
8      60,596   194,737        81,004      13h,1i4       20,408
9      60,191   19h,737        81,oo4      134,546       20,813
10      59,716   19h,737        81,004      135,021       21,288
11      58,696   192,894        80,238      134,198        21,542
12      38,343   124,122        51,630       85,779       13,287
13      14.,969    43,726       18)188       28,757         3,219
Internal Rates of return:
Most probable case -- over 100%
Very conservative case -- 44%
Assumptions on cases:
Most probable -- Projected acreage, crop yields, and acreage
allocation among crops are realized; 50% of total
acreage accessible to ground-operated equipment.
Very conservative -- Projected acreage and crop yields fall
short of expectations and acreage allocation shifts
to c-rops generating lower benefits *(e.g., cotton,
paddy) so that only half of basic benefit projections
would be realized.  In addition, as much as 80% of this
acreage could be treated from the ground, further lowering
net benefit per acre.
1/ See Appendix D for more details.



INDIA
AORICULTUIRAL AVIATION PROJEET
Project Economic Costs
Project
Year 1          2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10          11          12           13
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Ps 1000 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -
Investments -
Aircraft                                6,175.6    9,633.9   10,895.4
Land Vehicles - oper.                     418.0       726.0    1,100.0
Equipment                                 416.5       502.5       576.8        19.0        30.0        33.0        19.0        30.0        33.0        19.0        30.0        33.0         19.0
Buildings                                 400.0       100.0
Other Tral.uit Costs                   1,198.7    1,700.5    1,230.0    1,230.0    1,230.0    1,230.0           1,230.0    1,230.0      1,230.0    1,230.0      1,230.0     1,230.0      1,230.0
Adm. Vehicles                              M.0         44.0        44.0
Furniture and Fixtures                     75-0        37.5        37.5
Provision for Aircraft -
Replacement                            1,053.8     3,310.9     5,318.5      4,880.3     4,254.5    3,846.6      3,445.8     2,850.0     2,442.1    1,981.1    1,505.8         767.2        315.5
Incremental Current Operating Costs -
Operators'0 & M                           750.6    6,584.6   12,990.5   15,722.4   15,863.3   15,863.3    15,863.3   15,863.3    15,863.3   15,863.3    15,691.9   10,421.8              4,281.5
Chseicals (Rs 10/acre)                    267.2   10,309.9    23,282.9   31,650.0   33,852.0   33,852.0   33,852.0   33,852.0   33,852.0   33,852.0   33,532.3    21,576.0               7,602.8
Extension Eervices (Rs 2/acre)             53.4    2.061.9    4,656.6    6,330.0    6.770.4    6,17r.h    6,770.4    6,770.4            6770.o4     6,770.4    6,706.5       4,315.2     1,520.6
Total                             10,896.8   35.011.3   60.132.2   59,831.7   62,000.2   61,595.3   61,180.5   60,595.7    60,190.8   59.715.8   58,696.5    38,3143.2    14.969.4
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



AIN?KEX 12
LNDIA
AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Farm Benefits
1.        Farm benefits from the project would arise mainly from reduc-
tion in field losses due to pests and diseases, with consequent increases
in crop yields and farm incomes. Appendixes A and B illustrate two
models -- a 5-acre holding in southern India and a 10-acre farm in north-
ern India -- reflecting regional differences in cropping patterns,
yields and degree of need for plant protection. In each model, two
alternatives to aerial treatment are given: (a) the farm would receive
no plant protection and (b) the farm would receive protection from
ground-operated equipment. Yield increments would be higher under (a)
than (b). It is expected that about 200,000 farms would receive aerial
treatment under the project. Farm-gate prices used are national aver-
ages for India.
2.        Yield figures for paddy, jowar, sugarcane, cotton and potato
were derived from the results of a study by the National Council of
Applied Economic Research (NCAER) in New Delhi. In the absence of
reliable data for wheat, the average percentage yield differential for
rice was applied to a conservative but realistic wheat yield level with-
out plant protection. The figures on groundnuts were from a separate
study by the Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage.
Since all these studies apply to ground treatment, crop yields from protected
plots were uniformly raised by 5%, a conservative estimate in view of
the many advantages of aerial over ground treatment (Annex 11), to derive
yields for aerially-treated crops.
3.        Some of the crops need more than one treatment to achieve the
projected yield differentials. The following assumptions have been made
on the number of treatments required by each crop per season: paddy, 3;
jowar, 1; wheat, 1; cotton, 3; groundnut, 1; potato, 2; and sugarcane, 2.
4.        Ground application costs are based on current estimates of
operating a motorized mist blower costing approximately Rs 1,000 and
having a useful life of 3 years,      operated about 176 hours per year
at an efficiency rate of 1 ac/hour. This mist blower is the most eco-
nomical ground equipment under Indian conditions. Since other, more
costly, equipment are also in use, cost savings would probably be
greater than the following cost summary shows.
Plant Protection Cost by Ground Method
Rs/ac
Capital cost of equipment (at 9% interest rate)           2.25
Other fixed costs                                         3 12
Fuel                                                      0.64
Operators' wages                                          0.85
Other variable costs                                      0.34
Application cost                                      7.20
Chemicals                                                12.00
Total cost                                           19.20



ANNEX 12
Page 2
With aerial application costing an average of Rs 19.00 per acre (Rs 9.00
for fee and Rs 10.00 for chemicals), a farmer saves about Rs 0.20 by
shifting fromi ground to aerial treatment.l/  These figures indicate that
farms which can be treated by ground methods would derive small cost
savings in resorting to aerial treatment. The accompanying farm models
show that under current price and wage structures, a 5-ac farm in south-
ern India would only save Rs 2.90 and a 10-ac farm in northern India,
Rs 4.40. But in terms of incremental yields, benefits are quite large
and, should, therefore, provide adequate incentives to farmers to partic-
ipate in the project.
1/ These are financial savings to farmers. Cost savings in terms of
real economic resources would be about Rs 2.47 (see Annex 11,
para. 13).



INDIA - AGRICULTURAL AVIATION PROJECT
Farmer's Benefit - 5-acre Farm (Southern India)
Yield (kg/ acre)                             Gross        Incremental Production from                       jIncremental Gross Value
With             th            Incr ment        Cropped        Aerial Application (m tons)    Farm Gate          of ProductiorL R-0
No plant      ground         aerial                           Area         Over no plant Over ground             Price       Over no plant   Over ground
protection   application   application   C-A= } C-B=          (acres)        protection    application         (Rs/m ton)      protection        application
protection   appliation appiatiD x F=       E x F=                              G x I=            H x I=
A              B              C           D      E           F               G              H                  I                 J          _     K
Crops
Paddy                             1,164         1,377          1,445          281    68        3.25            0.913            0.224              950              867                213
Jowar (no spraying)                  -             -               -            -     -        1.25             -                -                    -               -                  -
Sugarcane                        48,000        54,900         57,645       9,645 2,745          -.5°           4.822            1.372                50             241                 69
Seed cotton                         276           401             421         145    20        0.75            0.108            0.015            1,500              162                 22
Groundnut (in shell)                455           555            583         128    28         1.25            0.160            0.035            1,000              160                 35
Pulses (no spraying)                 -             -               -           -      -        1.25             -                -                    -               -                  -
Total                                                                                       8.25                                                               1,430                339
Total Sprayed                                                                                .
Summary of Benefits and Costs of Aer&al Application (Rs)
Over no        Instead of
Plant          Ground
Protection    Application
Incremental Gross Value of Production                                    1,430            339
Incremental Costs
1. Cost of aerial application:
(a) Aircraft operatorts fee (Rs 9/acre)             128
(b) Chemicals (Rs 10/acre)                          142
Sub-total                                                     271             271
2. Harvesting, etc.                                                      143             34
Total                                                         414            105
Less: Cost savings on
ground application
(a) Fixed costs                                      77
(b) Wages                                            12
(c) Chemicals                                       171
(d) other materials                                    9
(e) Miscellaneous                                      5
Sub-total                                                                      274
Incremental Costs                                                        414              31                                              x
Incremental Net Farm Profit                                              1 016             308



INDIA - AGRICULTUflAL AVIATION PROJECT
Farmer's Benefit - 10-acre Farm (Northern India)
Incremental Production                             Incremental Gross Value
Yield (kg/acre)                             Gross cropped   from Aerial Application(m tons)        Farm Gate      of Production IR
No plant      With ground   With aerial           nent             area         Over no plant   Over ground             Price       Over no plant  Over ground
protection    application   application   C-A=       C-B-        (acres)          protection    application           (Rs/m ton)     protection    application
D x F=         E x F=                               GxI=          H x I=
A              B              C         0         E             F                 G               N                  I                J              K
Crops
Paddy                            797             870          915         116       44          2.0                0.233           0.087               950             221             82
Wheat                            800             945          992         192.      47          3.0                o.576           0.141               750             432           106
Jowar                            667             747          785         118       37          2.0                0.236           0.075               60o             142             45
Sugarcane                     25,900          29,500       30,975       5,075    1,475          1.0                5,075           1,475                50             254             74
Seed Cotton                      276             401          421         145        20         1.5                0.217           0.030             1,500             326             45
Potato                         1,456           1,849        1,942         486       93          1.0                0.486           0.092               680             330             63
Groundnuts                       465             567          595         130        28         2.0                0.261           O.o57             1,009             261             57
Pulses (no spraying)               -               -            -           -         -         2.0                 _-                                           -                      -
Fodder (no spraying)                               _            _           _        _          LO 
Total                                                                                       15.5                                                                  1.196           473
Total Bprayed                                                                               12.5
Summary of Benefits and Costs of Aerial Application(Rs)
Over no       Instead of
Plant         Ground
Protection    Application
Incremental Gross Value of Production                                   1,966           473
Incremental Costs
1. Costs of aerial application:
(a) Aircraft operator's fee (Rs 9/acre)           194
(b) Chemicals (Rs 10/acre)                        215
Sub-total                                                     409           409
2. Harvesting, etc.                                                     196            47
Total                                                         605          456
Less: Cost savings on
ground application
(a) Fixed costs                                   116
(b) Wages                                          18
(c) Chemicals                                     258
(d) Other materials                                14
(a) Miscellaneous                                   7
Sub-total                                                       _           413
Incremei tal Costs                                                      605            42
Incremental Net Farm Profit                                             1361            430



To e5' A0z                                                                                                                                                                                              Sr    $ 0,0     ;   0 < t)AN ti T<0f000C$      , 0 ;
;~~~~~~~~U    4oo0;n.t<Lr 0X:000A-0t 50;0; 0f0X;XX0u;0;>A
&   xtvfn\t:t  X X.0 0;...........t ti:0t;;0;.0 0\ 000St0t0000ft 0000S
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A                      C-u R         0 t0$0   ,: 5'\t<            t                       0    Il:           u;;.;0   tS0 00n0ia0t i
00  ~~                                                                       N.  000S;    r>t X0t 00 0 0t000  fUpUA0&|XNtt;PRJX0000000
:t :   :</ ra   -i                                             v              ;                      t0;;         ;  ;  ff             V    
A                                P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X?M  w; 0 0f0:CCSDS0. U  :1 0 RGCA PrTS AF;    ;0V 0C00A  ;0St        0 
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~N :-- \                                    ''^D? Kg                         :    ::)  I b   :CA  E.UIE   E  WI1. TT.EEIHPA-rOFTO    
MU4~~~~~~~ 54541 55,g.a      :              ;tA0   (   0  -       SAC p5;gANN PWUC./2&  0, n S /.r0: :):
~~~~~~~~~:     AND S"X000\Il;; 0f4u Cor,r  C;-u* OiRXl F IoiNDE;pLR e . FCI O  KMF 0 0A 
GUJARAI 9/                                              a           YA RDD-?s                                                                   '- -- --' 



