Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Report No. 5331
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 700-LBR)
October 30, 1984
Western Africa Projects Department
Aariculture Division B
This docunent is a resrided distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmace of
their offcial dutes Its cntents may not oderwise be disclsed wthout World Bank mghorivMon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =  Uzited States Dollars
Currency Exchange Rate        =  US $1.00
- Appraisal Year Average      =  US $1.00
- Intervening Year Average   =  US $1.00
- Completion Year Average    =  us $1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric ton     =  0.98 long ton
1 long ton       =  2,240 lb = 1.016 metric ton
1 hectare (ha)   =  2.47 acres
1 acre           =  0.405 hectare
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 mile
1 mile           =  1.609 kilnmeter
ABBREVIATIONS
ACDB  =  Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
ADPs  =  Agricultural Development Projects
BCADP =  Bong County Agricultural Development Project
CAO   =  County Agricultural Officer
CARI  =  Central Agricultural Research Institute
CDA   =  Cooperative Development Agency
CME5U  =  Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CS    =  Cooperative Society
GOL   =  Government of Libera.
LBDI  =  Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
LCADP =  Lofa County Agricultural Development Project
LPMC  =  Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation
M&E   -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA   =  Ministry of Agriculture
xMW   =  M'inistry of Works
PMU   =  Project Management Unit
PSC   =  Project Steering Committee
TCU   =  Town Cooperative Unit
USAID =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFMCIL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 700-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page to.
PREFACE ...................................   i
BASIC DATA SHEET      . ................  *   ,                   i4
HIGHLIGHTS             .    ...  ............ .                   iv
BANK OVERVIEW OF THE COMPLETION REPORT ....................**    1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT PREPARED BY THE PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION UNIT         . ...........    9
I.     INTRODUCTION .........................................    9
II.    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AlD APPRAISAL          10
III.   THE PROJECT .............* .........o.**e*   11
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .       ..............................  14
V.     FINANCIAL ASPECTS ................................... .    23
VI.    PROJECT IMPACT .......................................   25
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION                  . . .    29
VIII.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORIMNCE AND DEVELOPMENT ............   31
IX.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK                 . . .    35
I.     CONCLUSIONS ..............      ...   35
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   KEY INDICATORS
ANNEX 2   INCREMENTAL COSTS AND BENEFITS
APPENDIX I:   Comments from the Borrower.
MAP:          IBRD Map No. 12366 Liberia Bong County Agricultural
Development Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its oontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
(Cr. 700-LBR)
CONPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.          This is a completion report (PCR) on the Bong County Agricultural
Development Project (BCADP). The Credit for the project was approved by the
Board of Directors in April 1977, in an amount of US $7.0 million, and was
closed in December 1983, in accordance with the original closing date.
2.          The report consists of a Project Completion Report prepared by
BCADP (BCADP/PCR), and a Bank Overview of the BCADP/PCR prepared by the
Western Africa Region Projects Department.  This project has not been the
subject of an audit by the Operations Evaluation Department (OEXD).  However,
OED expects that it will undertake an audit of Bong County Agricultural
Development Project Phase II, when it is completed, and, at the same time
carry out an impact evaluation of Bong County Agricultural Development Project
Phase I and Lofa County Agricultural Development Project, which iws the
subject of a PCR prepared in 1983 (Report No. 4517 dated 27 May, 1983).
3.          Western Africa Region finds the BCADP/PCR to be a satisfactory
review of the project and, generally, is in accord with its major findings and
conclusions. Any significant differences of opinion between the Bank and
BCADP, and any relevant additional information on Bank files which may not
have been available to BCADP are reflected in the Bank Overview.
4.          The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments in July 1984.
Comments received from the project are attached as Appendix I.
5.          The Western Africa Regional Office gratefully acknowledges the
valuable assistance provided by Government officials involved in the project
and project staff. Their assistance contributed greatly to this report.



-TBi-
m1m oaT AGam          DLmI O!iT  E!EI (Cr.7a0-im)
PJE9 CO lETI RK! BASC DATA MMI
Key Pmject DIta
Actualcr        Actal as %
Appraisl        Current         of ARaisal
Item                        E;timte         EmtiMte         Efaite
Project Costs (US$ rllion)                2D)3            21.9 1            1CB
Credit Amaunt (US$ imllic)                7.0             7.0              100
Disbused to Narch 31, 19B4                7.0              6.9              99
Institbtiamal Perfarumce                 Good         Sabisfactory
Agramic Perfonmice-affee (k1Aa)          1,000             561              56
Agrnaomic Perfaluce-Ooa (kgJha)          1,000             392              3
Agrinadc Perfa   rSce-OW IRce (kgAa)     3,000           2,5W               83
Agrmxic Pe1rfa     Ulmd Rice (kg/ha)    1,300 2          1,500             115
^B=Mec Rate of  etu  (%)                   21               4               19
Ihinber of eeffciarnes                   9,000           8,200              91
Project Dates
Date Board Approval               April 1977          April 1977
Effectiveness Date                March 1978          March 1978
Completion Date                    June 1983           June 1983
Closing Date                   December 1983       December 1983-
Project Disburseents Schedule (munlat-ive)
M7t7/    FTM879   F 9/80  FN03/1  F1/82  FE2.83  PY/84
SAR Ebtimte              0.4      1.9      3.4      4.7      6.2      7.0      7.0
Attul/Cinent Ebtimte       -       1.3     2.4      3.8      5.2      6.1      7.0
% A/E                      -       68       71       81       84       87      100
Date of Nnml Disbuzsemnt: There is s7tll a sue.) aiott of US $3,874 stiU to disbZse.
1   This is the latest estimate as at February 1984 and, therefore, it differs
from the actuals shown in Tables 7 & 8, which were as at 30 September &
31 December 1982, respectively.
2   Without fertilizer.  The SAR estimated that with fertilizer the yield of
upland rice would reach 1,800 kg/ha, in which case actual would be about
83% of appraisal estimates.  It turned out that very few farmers used
recommended amounts of fertilizer on upland rice.



Spea-          -     /    2/       4
DIte of Db. of   No. of  izatim  Perfomon e
SPN. No.         Rsp* PeNrss   Ueeis                  atg    Tred  Probam
Identification
by GOL           6/74
Preparation        5/75
Appraisal          5/76    10
1               4t18     1       1/2    c             1       1 I
2               1t19     2       2      a,c           1       1    -
3               8t79     2       2      a,c           2       1    1,0
4               1/80     3       4      a,a,c         2       1    F
5               7/80     2       2      b,c,          2       1    1,7
6              12/80     1       1      b             2       1    X,F
7               6/81     5       5      b,d,c,a,c     2       1    1,F.0
8               9/82     2       2      a,c,          2       1    F,T
9               1/83     1       1      a             2       1    F,T
10              5/84      2       2     a,f           2        1    F,T
Total:              21.T 2
Other Project Data
Borrower                  - Government of Liberia
Executing Agency          - Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year               - July 1 - June 30
Lame of Currency          - United States Dollar
Follow-on Project         - Bong County Agricultural Development Project
Phase II (Credit 1447 LBR - Approved by the Board
13 March 1984)
y~a = agriculturist;  b = agricultural economist;  c = financial analyst;
d = operations assistant; f = credit specialist.
g/  1 = problem-free or minor problems;  2 = moderate problems.
/  1 = improving;  2 = stationary.
4/  F = financial;  M = managerial;  T = technical; and 0 = other.



- iv -
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr 700-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The Bong County Agricultural Development Project was the Baik Group's
second major integrated agricultural development project in Liberia.  It was
modelled, basically, on the earlier Lofa County Agricultural Development
Project (Cr 577-LBR). The project, which was identified by GOL/IDA, was
prepared by consultants as part of the Liberian Agricultural Development and
Technical Assistance Project (306-LBR) financed by IDA, USAID and the
Government of LIberia. The primary objective of the project was to increase
production of smallholder rice, coffee, and cocoa, in three districts
(Gbarnga, Kokoya, and Sanoyie) of Bong County by means of an extension system
with supporting services such as credit, input supply, marketing and
cooperative development.  In addition, the project included the construction
of new feeder roads, feeder road rehabilitation, well construction, and the
provision of buildings including the expansion of a training center.
2..      The agricultural targets attained by the project compared to those at
appraisal, in terms of hectarages developed, were about 24% for swamp rice,
114% for upland rice, 92% for coffee new plantings, and 113% for cocoa new
plantings.
3.       Incremental yields are difficult to assess because of the long
gestation periods for coffee and cocoa.  Best estimates as a percentage of
appraisal targets are 83% for swamp rice, 115% for upland rice, 56% for coffee
new plantings, and 39% for cocoa new plantings.  About 7,500 farm families, or
about 83% of the appraisal target of 9,000 farm families, participated
directly in the project.  Through its unit designed to carry out small road
maintenance and the construction of access tracks, the project completed a
substantial program of construction and reconditioning of about 650 km of
feeder roads, 383 culverts, 44 bri'dges, 91 village wells, and 26 latrines.
Although there were four changes of project manager, overall management of the
project was satisfactory witb local staff taking over complete responsibility
from expatriates by project year 5.
4.       Revised estimated total project cost is US$21.9 mllion, about 108%
of appraisal estimates. Expenditures up to the end of September, 1982 (PY5)
for IDA-financed components totalled US$6.5 million, USAID components US$3.6
million and Government of Liberia contribution US$7.8 million.  The actual
costs exceeded appraisal estimates in building and construction, vehicles and
vehicle operating costs, furniture and equipment, salaries and general
administration, and village wells, but were less for farm inputs, feeder road



construction, research and feasibility studies.
5.       The revised economic rate of return is estimated at 4%, much lower
than the appraisal estimate of 21%, due mainly to the late start up of crop
activities, lower than estimated crop yields, benefits from tree crops
accruing much later than expected, and large areas planted with cocoa on
unsuitable soil.  In line with observed yield performance, future expected
yields have been adjusted downwards. New cocoa planting has also been
excluded from the follow-on Bong ADP Phase II.
6.       As the designs of the Lofa ADP and Bong ADP were basically the same
and the timing of the two projects overlapped considerably, the conclusions of
the two Project Completion Reports, not surprisingly, are very similar.  The
project had only limited success.  It has been reasonably successful overall
in effecting improvements in the agriculture of Bong County.  Although
problems were encountered in farmer adoption of improved swamp rice
techniques, cocoa planting on unsuitable soils was close to disastrous. The
physical achievement, mobilization of farmers, institutional performance and
development of a trained and motivated management and extension staff have
been satisfactory. In addition, the feeder road network has been extended
enabling goods and services to reach villages not previously served by road
transport, and the foundation for good input supply, credit and marketing
systems have been established.
7.       The main lessons which emerge from the project's implementation
experience, and which have been taken into consideration for the Bong ADP
Phase II, include:
- technological packages in projects should be kept under constant
review (BCADP/PCR para 4.06);
- care needs to be taken in project design to take into consideration
indigenous farming systems (BCADP/PCR para 4.07);
- appropriate assessment of soils is a key factor prior to recommending
tree crop development (BCADP/PCR para 4.08);
- monitoring and evaluation units have an important role to play in
project implementation and policy changes (BCADP/PCR para 4.21);
- monitoring of staffing, organization and management is essential to
avoid over-staffing and to improve cost effectiveness of projects
(BCADP/PCR para 8.05); and
- adaptive research closely associated with the farming community
is important (BCADP/PCR para 10.03).



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR 700 - LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
Bank Overview of the Bong County Agricultural Development Project
Completion Report Prepared by the Project Monitoring and Zvaluation Unit 1/
A. Background
1.01     The Project Completion Report was prepared by the Project Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit, assisted by the Ministry of Agriculture's Central
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The report is thorough and appropriately
critical. Except for some information in Bank files, which was not available
to the Liberians, the report covers all relevant information concerning the
project. Gaps in the report have been filled by reference to the files and
are covered in this Overview, as are instances where the judgment of the Bank
differs from that in the report.
1.02.    The project, which was modelled, basically, on the earlier Lofa
County Agricultural Development Project (CR. 577-LBR), was identified by the
Government of Liberia in 1975, prepared by consultants in 1975, and appraised
in 1976. Board approval was in April 1977 and the Credit became effective in
March 1978.  The Credit closed in June 1984 in accordance with the original
closing date.
1.03.    The project was designed to increase farm incomes and agricultural
production, particularly that of smallholders, in three districts (Gbarnga,
Kokoya and Sanoyie) of Bong County, which has a total area of 650,000 ha and a
population of about 140,000 of which about 100,000 (19,000 farm families) are
engaged in farming. In order to achieve that objective, the project provided
for:
- development and seasonal loans to increase production of about
6,000 ha of upland rice, 2,000 ha of swamp rice, 3,000 ha of cocoa,
and 1,500 ha of coffee;
- construction of about 65 km of new feeder roads and
reconditioning/upgrading about 210 km of feeder roads;
- construction of project offices and accommodation for senior staff;
1/ Minor editorial changes have been made to the BCADP/PCR.



-2-
- recruitment of qualified Liberian and expatriate technical and
administrative persounel, and training of Liberian senior
counterpart staff to take over the executive and technical
functions from the expatriates;
- establishment of farmer cooperatives to facilitate farm input,
credit supply and marketing; sad
- construction of schistosomiasis and crop research laboratories,
and about 300 village wells for improved water supply.
1.04.    Total project costs were estimated at US$20.3 million; IDA would
provide US$7.0 million, USAID US$6.6 million, and the Government of Liberia
US06.7 million. The economic rate of return was estimated at 21%.
B. Implementation
Staffing and Organization
1.05.    Staffing, particularly senior staff, has been a major problem
throughout the project period. Credit effectiveness was delayed for some
considerable period due mainly to the time taken to appoint a project manager
and a manager for the Finance Division. The project manager, an expatriate,
resigned after a year in office; he was replaced by another expatriate who
stayed with the project for only eighteen months. The third project manager,
this time a Liberian, remained with the project for only eight months when he
vas then promoted and transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. Three
project managers within such a short period, each with his own style of
management and ideas on priority components, clearly had an impact on project
progress and on staff morale generally. The other major senior staff changes
that took place were the expatriate manager of the Commercial Services
Division who served for about one year, and the expatriate swamp development
officer who stayed with the project for only three months. It was not until
the fourth, and current, project manager, a Liberian, took office that the
project really began to settle down. The prcject has now taken shape; several
past mistakes, particularly the planting of cocoa on unsuitable soil, have
been corrected, and staff morale is good. Under local management, the project
continues to operate satisfactorily, therefore, the organizational and
staffing aspects of the project were implemented successfully.
Crop Development
1.06.    Overall, about 95% of the planned hectarage benefitted under various
crop development programs. Coffee and cocoa new planting of about 1,380 ha
and 3,380 ha respectively, were about 92% and 113% of appraisal estimates.
Upland rice with about 6,540 ha was 114% of appraisal estimates; but swamp
rice, about 420 ha was only 24%.
1.07.    All the cocoa farms were newly established and during PY1-PY4



farmers increasingly showed interest in cocoa development. However, by the
end of PY4, the position had changed dramatically; it was discovered that
cocoa seedlings were being planted in areas where the soil was unsuitable and
also that the low tolerance of cocoa to the heat of the sun was causing
considerable losses on those farms with insufficient shade. About 50% of the
area planted to cocoa is estimated to have suffered from those causes. In an
effort to help those farmers who, an the advice of the project, plaLted cocoa
which later proved to be in unsuitable areas, the project is helping by
replacing the cocoa seedlings with free coffee seedlings. Soil is being more
thoroughly tested and new cocoa planting has been excluded from Bong ADP Phase
II.
1.08.    New coffee planting was about 92% of target; the main constraint was
the shortage of seedlings.  The Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation (LPKC)
was unable to maintain the supply to both the Bong and Lofa projects as LPNC
encountered difficulties in obtaining coffee seed on time and in adequate
quantities. Tn the end, both projects were forced to set up their own
nurseries.
1.09.    The original upland rice package of improved seed and fertilizer
evoked little response prom farmers. They felt that fertilizer was too costly
and that the technical package of effective application had not been proven.
If the bush fallow is more than eight years, good yields could be obtained
without fertilizer. The more popular package was improved seeds alone which
was generally provided through seed exchange. By the end of the project,
about 114% of appraisal target had been achieved.
1.10.    Swamp rice achievement was only about 24% of target and, to a certain
extent, that reflects the policies on swamp development which varied from one
project manager to another. In the earlier years the project was not
successful in encouraging farmers to work in swamps because of the danger of
schistosomiasis and other diseases associated with them. Some farmers who did
develop their swamps, achieved greater production and higher yields; the
majority, however, could not cope with the demand for greater care and
maintenance in view of major labor constraints, with the result that swamp
farms were either reduced in size or the swamps were allowed to revert to
their underdeveloped state.
1.11     The quantities of inputs actually distributed to farmers over the
project period are shovn below:
Appraisal                      Actual as %
Input                Estimate        Actual       Appraisal Estimate
Rice Seeds (mt) 1/              390.0          379.3            97
Coffee Seedlings ('000)       1,889.7        1,889.7           100
Cocoa Seedlings ('000)        3,790.0        3,840.3           101
Fertilizer (mt)               3,732.1          212.8             6
1/ Both swamp and upland of which 94% was upland.



-4-
Cooperatives and Credit
1.12.    The project attempted to build up a viable cooperative system to
handle credit, input supply and marketing. At the end of PY5, the cooperative
structure consisted of 230 Cooperative Service Units affiliated to six
District Cooperative Societies; total membership was about 7,500 (81% of
appraisal targets). By the end of PY6, membership had grown to about 8,300
(92% of appraisal targets). The six District Cooperative Societies formed a
federation licensed by LPMC to buy directly from farmers. The project played
a prominent role in the development of the cooperative structure; however,
mainly because of management and staffing constraints, the cooperatives were
not able to discharge their input supply and credit functions
satisfactorily. Although some success was achieved in marketing, and
strengthening of the cooperatives is an on-going process, the Bank does not
agree with the statement in the PCR prepared by the project that the
cooperatives were strengthened in the area of input supply and credit.
Throughout the project period both input supply and credit were handled by the
project Commercial Services Division. At the end of the project it was agreed
that cooperative. should have responsibility, supported by the project
Commercial Services Division, for input supply and marketing, but that credit
should be taken over by the Agricultural Cooperative and Development Bank
(ACDB). In preparation for Bong ADP Phase II, ACDB has already taken over,
successfully, all the Bong ADP farmer loan accounts numbering about 8,000.
Seasonal loan recoveries by the project were satisfactory (90%); development
loans are only just starting to fall due for repayment and data are not yet
available on recoveries; they are, however, expected to be low because of the
loans granted for cocoa in unsuitable areas. Those loans are not necessarily
bad debts as coffee seedlings are being offered free by the project to replace
the cocoa plantings.
Civil Works
1.13.    Generally, this component was implemented successfully, but not
without considerable difficulties. The political upheaval in 1980 and the
resulting uncertainties were the major factors which disrupted, among other
project activities, the construction of the administration building. Civil
works undertaken by the project included, in addition to the administration
building, an annex to the training centre, four houses, a workshop, a
schistosomiasis laboratory, three cooperative input sales centers, about 90
village wells and 26 latrines. A substantial program of construction and
reconditioning of about 650 km of feeder roads, 380 culverts and 45 bridges
was also carried out successfully.
1.14.    There was considerable community self-help assistance in the
construction of feeder roads, wells and latrines. Latrines were included in
the project at the request of the Head of State during a visit to the project
area. However, unlike the village wells program where utilization was
satisfactory, the latrine program was slow in gaining acceptance at the
village level.



-5-
Disease Control
1.15     The Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit was established to determine
and monitor any presence of a prevalence of schistosomiases in swamps to be
developed for rice production in the project area. About 170 swamps and 50
contact sites were surveyed, and 2,700 farmers tested for S. Reamatobrium and
S. iansoni.  Children and villages were also tested.  In the beginning, the
analysis of specimens showed a wide range of infections.  Drugs were given
for treatment and by PY 5, the range of infection among swamp farmers was
down to about 9% with S. Heamatobrium to about 14Z with S. Mansoni. This
component was successfully implemented and contributed greatly to the
implementation of the swamp rice program.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.16.   The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was set up late 1979. The Unit
carried out farm business surveys similar to those carried out in LOYA ADP,
and also produced a number of reports. The subjects covered: crop yields,
feasibility of farm models, benefits from roads, labour supply and demamnd,
food consumption, e-'c. The Unit has been a valuable source of information for
project management and has been able to influence several policy changes made
In the project. The Unit, with the assistance of the K.nistry of Agriculture,
Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, also prepared the BCADP/PCR.
Financial Aspects
1.17.   Estimated total project cost is US$21.9 million as compared to
US$20.3 million estimated at appraisal.  The cost of buildings, vehicles and
vehicle operating costs, general administrative services, furniture and
equipment, and village wells, exceeded appraisal estimates; whereas farm
inputs, roads, counstruction and research costs were much lower.  Farm inputs
were only about 74% of appraisal estimates since fertilizer was almost
excluded from the rice package, and swamp rice development was well below
appraisal targets.  USAID, as a cofinanc-ier, financed the cost of farm inputs,
road construction, some local staff salaries, and general services.
Procurement
1.18.    No major procurement problems arose during project implementation.
Extension and Training
1.19.    The project recruited its own extension staff and exercised a high
standard of selection. A modified version of the Training and Visit system
has been introduced and so far both project staff and farmers appear to be
enthusiastic in its use. Further refinement of the system Will, however, be
undertaken under the second phase project.



-6-
Crop Yields
1.20.   A Liberian National Agricultural Producticn Surrvy carried out In
1978 indicates that rice yield in Bong County was about 1,235 kg/ha. No
further survey data are available.  BCADP Nonitoring and Ivaluation Unit
started collecting its own data in PY2. The appraisal estimated that yields
of upland rice would increase from about 1,000 kg/ha- ithout develouent to
about 1,800 kg/ha with the adoption of a package copprising improved need and
fertilizers or about 1,300 kg/ha without fertilizers. Seed exchang praved to
be more popular than the seed fertilizer package and, in addition, project
staff concluded that in the shifting cultivation system of agriculture where
planting takes place after a normal fallow period of between 10-15 years,
there is little advantage gained in applying fertilizer. Upland rice yields
are about 1,500 kg/ha (about 115% of appraisal estimate). If the National
Agricultural Production Survey estimate of 1,235 kg/ha is taken as the base
yield instead of the 1,000 kg/ha estimated at appraisal, the incremental
benefits to the project may well have been lower than estimated.
1.21.   With regard to swamp rice, the appraisal estimated an increase in
yields from 1,750 kg/ha to 3,000 kg/ha using a package of proper water
management, timely planting and fertilization and use of seed varieties
resistant to iron toxicity. Actual yields are estimated at about 2.500 kg/ha
(83% of appraisal estimate). Farmers tended to reduce the quantitieo of
fertilizer applied and paid little attention to proper maintenance. Project
extension staff supervised closely the development efforts in the beginning
but in the succeeding years, as farmers generally became less interested in
proper care and maintenance, or in following recommended practices, the level
of supervision diminished.
1.22.    It was estimated at appraisal that new coffee plantations would start
bearing fruit in the fourth year after planting, yielding a harvest of 300
kg/ha rising to 1,000 kg/ha in PY6. During project impementation these
fi-gures were revised downward, and recent project surveys show en average
yield of 108 kg/ha for PY4 rising to 163 for PY5. Estimated yield for P16 is
about 560 kg/ha (56% of appraisal estimates), rising to about 600 kg/ha in
peak year PY7.
1.23.    Appraisal estimated that new cocoa plantings would start bearing
fruit in PY5 with a harvest of 200 kgha rising steadily to the peak year P110
when yields were expected to reach 1,000 kg/ha. In PY3 some cocoa plantations
had already begun to bear frui-t and the average was 56 kg/ha; this rose to 224
kg/ha in PY5. However, the present method of yield data collection (which is
being improved) is still very crude and is too small a sample to be
reliable.  A mid-term project review reduced estimated yield to a peak in P17
of about 450 kg/ha (45% of appraisal estimates).                    -   -
1.24.    It is clear that crop yield estimates for both coffee and cocoa were
very much overestimated at appraisal.



-7-
Economic Re-evaluation (ERR)
1.25.    The economic rate of return is estimated at a little over 4% as
compared to 21% at appraisal. The main reasons for the shortfall are : (i)
late start-up of crop production activities; (4i) a large area of cocoa (and
to a lesser extent coffee) was planted on unsuitable soils; and (iii) crop
yields were much lower than estimated at appraisal.  In line with observed
yield performance, future expected yields have been adjusted downwards and new
cocoa planting has been excluded from Bong ADP Phase II. The ERR could be
improved considerably if all recomended technieal practices for tree crops and
swamp rice are followed, thus increasing production.
Bank Performance
1.26.    In view of the general lack of experience and knowledge of the
sector at the time of appraisal (the first project - Lofa ADP - was
declared effective at the time of Bong ADP appraisal) Bank performance was
reasonably satisfactory, particularly in designing a package which integrated
feeder roads, inputs, extension and training, and schistosomiasis monitoring.
Adequate resources were provided to help the project meet its objectives and
targets. The major flaw in project design was related to the lack of
experience with the understanding of Liberian conditions. Principally, the
project was least successful in the development of swamp rice and cocoa, and
in the development of cooperatives to take over responsibility for credit and
input supply by the end of the project period.  Although Bank supervisions
were adequate in number (10) and frequency (two per year), it would have been
advisable to have included a cooperative credit specialist during the early
supervisions.  Bank supervision missions should also have focused more seriously,
at an earlier stage, on problems of cocoa development especially soil testing
requirements. The missions were, however, instrumental in guiding project staff
in areas of procurement, project planning and implementation, accounting pro-
cedures and, eventually in the transfer of farmer loan accounts from the project
to the Agricultural Cooperative and Development Bank.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.27.    While major problems were encountered due to inadequate knowledge at
appraisal. a political upheaval during 1980, and irregular funding by
Government, the project was reasonably successful in effecting improvements in
the agriculture of Bong County. Institutionally, the project has established
a sound base with experienced and dedicated management and staff, that will
provide a good start-up for Bong ADP Phase II.
1.28.    The main lessons learned from project implementation and which have
been taken into consideration in the design of the follow-up project include:
- technological packages in projects should be kept under constant
review (BCADP/PCR para 4.06);



- 8 -
- care needs to be taken in project design to take into consideration
indigenous farming systems (BCADP/PCR para 4.07);
- appropriate assessment of soils is a key factor prior to
recommending tree crop development (BCADP/PCR para 4.08);
- monitoring and evaluation units have an important role to play in
project implementation and policy changes (BCADP/PCR para 4.21);
- monitoring of staffing, organization and management is essential
to avoid over-staffing and to improve cost effectiveness of
projects (BCADP/PCR para 8.05); and
- adaptive research closely associated with the farming community
is important (BCADP/PCR para 10.03).



-9-
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 700-LBR)
Project Completion Report 1/
I. INTRODUCTION
Sector Background
1.01      Liberia has two major sub-sectors in the agricultural economy,
namely: (i) the more modern export; and (ii) the subsistence
traditional sector. Agriculture as a whole contributes about 32% to the
GDP (14% from monetary and 18% from the traditional sector). During the
period 1974-79, the agricultural sector maintained an average growth
rate of about 4Z but fell to almost zero growth in 1981-82 due possibly
to depressed prices of the export commodities, including, rubber, cocoa
and coffee. The yields of farm crops in the traditional sector (which
is still a larger portion of the total) are held at significantly lower
level than those of the Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) because
of the lack of capital, technical know-how and the inability to get
incentives vis a vis prices at farmgate. Even project farmers
cooperating with the ADPs are sometimes held back from producing more by
the inability of the Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC, the
only marketing agency in Liberia) to buy on time and at prices
acceptable to farmers in general. The military coup in 1980 also
affected slightly the performance of agriculture more specially in the
ADP areas.
1.02      During the project years (1977-78, a pre-operation, and then
1978-1983) the Government's sector objectives were mainly to increase
productivity, employment and income in the rural areas, most especially
of the small farmers. The Government also aimed at establishing large
plantations of coffee, cocoa, oil palm, coconut, sugarcane and even rice
by public corporations. To be able to achieve the planned objectives,
the Government increased the agricultural budgetary allotment from 4% in
1970 to 21% in 1980. The appropriation of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) was in the vicinity of about $20.5 million in 1982-83. This is
about 6.0% of the Fiscal Year Budget. The Government has pursued the
1/        Prepared by the project's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
assisted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Central Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit. Minor editorial changes have been made.



- 10 -
policy of decentralization, hence, created three regions in order to
improve the administration of agricultural programs including research,
extension and training. In the case of the strategy for the smallholder
farms, extension services were categorically implemented by two major
groups: (i) Ministry of Agriculture's extension service which has
always been hampered by the lack of funds and logistic support-making
its effectiveness questionable in spite of the "free" material; and (ii)
the ADP extension which proved to be more effective because of the
availability of inputs and farm tools at reasonable prices, i.e.,
fertilizers at subsidized price and on credit.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL
Preparation and Appraisal of the Project
2.01      The initial preparation for the Bong Project was carried out
in 1971 as reported in the Upper Bong Rural Development Project
Feasibility Study (1975). Hence, the project was identified by GOL and
feasibility report prepared by consultants with funds from the Liberia
Agricultural Development and Technical Assistance Project, Credit
306-LBR. The Appraisal Report No. 130a-LBR (1977) was finally produced
based on the findings of a joint IBRD-USAID appraisal mission that
visited Liberia in May-June, 1976.
2.02      The original proposal (feasibility study) included the
improvement of extension services, setting up of cooperative societies,
revolving credit funds, strengthening of Central Agricultural Research
Institute (CARI) operation, provision of infrastructures particularly
roads and setting up of a health unit to monitor the incidence of
diseases. Generally, all these were approved and considered by the
appraisal mission. Hence, the appraisal mission considered further the
extent of 9,000 farm families to be assisted and provided farm support
services such as extension advice, input supply, credit arrangements,
land development and soil selection. To be able to implement all these,
as in the Lofa Project. a special administrative entity, the Bong
Project Management Un-  (BPMU) was created and headquartered in Suakoko.
A Project Steering Co- ittee (PSC) was created to determine project
policy, exercise budgetary control, financial control, approve
appointment of professional staff, determine conditions of service and
ensure inter-agency cooperation and coordination. To be meaningful to
the local people and community, a Project Consulative Committee (PCC)
was organized; it would facilitate communications between project and
farmers and would also assist in loan recovery. Other support services
included the Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) providing
banking facilities and the Rural Development Unit of the Ministry of
Public Works to help in well construction and farm to market road
construction.
2.03      The Development Credit Agreement No. 700-LBR between the
Government of Liberia and the International Development Association
(IDA) of the World Bank was signed on December 29, 1977 and the Credit



- 11 -
was made effective on March 15, 1978. The USAID Loan No. 669-T-035,
which also supported the project, was signed on January 16, 1978 but was
made effective after two conditions were met: (i) appointment of an
evaluation officer; and (ii) registration of small farms aligned with
the national laws of Liberia.
2.04      Total project costs were estimated at US$20.3 million of which
about 48Z was expected to be foreign exchange component. The total
financing was split into three sources IDA (US$7.0 million), USAID
(US$6.0 million) and GOL (US$7.3 million).
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      Project Area.  The project area is located in Upper Bong
County, north of Monrovia. It is lying between Montserrado, Nimba,
Bassa and Lofa Counties. The project area covers 650,000 hectares and a
population of about 140,000 of which about 100,000 (19,000 farm
families) were farming. The project area has averaged rainfall ranging
from 1,650 mm in 1979-80 to 3,768 mm in 1982-83. The land is generally
rolling with some isolated hills and mountains but about 12X is in
poorly drained swamps. The upland is characterized by low fertility
whereas the lowland, while fertile, has some problems of iron-toxicity
and sandy contents.
3.02      Of the total land in the project area a very small percentage
was considered under cultivation. There were many large-scale farms
devoted to the production of rubber (almost 2/3) and the remaining 1/3
occupied by peasant farmers with diversified croppings. The latter were
normally used for shifting cultivation with fallow periods ranging from
an average of 6 to 30 years. Most, however, were observed to be in the
range of 7-15 years for upland rice farming. About 90 percent of the
farmers in the area cultivate upland rice as the primary source of
livelihood because it allows for intercropping of other minor crops for
family consumption. Cassava and such vegetables as pepper, corn and
eddoes constitute these minor crops. Before the project, the Government
had already put emphasis to coffee and cocoa as part of the
diversification program among small farmers. However, the project came
in to introduce better seeds and seedlings (technological package
component) and new methods of husbandry and culture.
3.03      The project was mainly conceived and implemented on the basis
of increasing farm income and welfare of the farmers and to strengthen
and develop the support services. Thus, the project comprised of farm
and crop development, development of infrastructure, institutional
support and other assistance. There were two major types of loans
granted to tree crop farmers, development loans and, after
establishment, maintenance loans (mainly for labor payments). Seasonal
credit included fertilizers and farm chemicals in swamp, and seeds for
both upland and/or swamp.



- 12 -
3.04      Farm and Crop Development.  The project intended to provide
credit for farm inputs. During the first year, development would be
confined to upland and swamp rice and, thereafter, the tree crops. In
the upland, 5,750 hectares would be primarily planted to LAC-23 and
replaced with new seed everv 5th year; fertilizer (22-40-d) and better
management practices would be applied. The project would also develop
3,000 hectares of cocoa and 1,500 hectares of coffee and development
would consist of new plantings of high yielding materials; fertilizers,
pesticides and fungicides would be used and better husbandry practices
introduced. Better ways of processing/fermenting cocoa would be taught
to maintain high quality. In the swamp 1,650 hectares of inland swamp
would be redrained and 400 hectares of existing swamps improved. Of the
total swamps targetted only 300 hectares would be double cropped.
3.05      Supply of Inputs.  About 500 tons of rice seeds would be
issued to farmers, 7.0 million cocoa and coffee seedlings distributed,
5,000 tons of fertilizers, insecticides, chemicals, shade crops, power
tillers, sprayers,-hand winders, chain saws, fermentation boxes, etc.
provided. All inputs and farm equipment would be rented/sold at full
commercial cost with provision for credit.
3.06      Staffing.  A smallholder development project requires staff
with high levels of managerial efficiency, technical competence and
innovation. Where possible the BPMU positions would be filled by
Liberians. The project would also provide funds for six recruits from
other countries. About 359 personnel and staff were expected in the
last year (PY-5) of the project financial period.
3.07      Training.  Manpower at all levels was a problem.  No one
educational institution in Liberia seemed to produce the immediate needs
of the project.  Hence, the Lofa Project would provie facilities for
all extension, cooperative and credit field staff training. Some staff
were to be trained abroad specially in tree crops proCnction and
management. Others would be trained in project managemenIt and rural
development administration. The project would prepare its own training
program which would consist of short courses plus practicum. Technical
training for field staff would be at CARI (funding of center under
306-LBR) and close cooperation with WARDA would be sought. Short
refresher courses would follow. Farmer training would also be aimed at
and audio-visual aids provided.
3.08      Farm Inputs - Procurement ard Distribution.  The input supply
and marketing section of the cooperative and credit services division
would organize the farm input delivery system. Village level
cooperatives would estimate the requirements of farmers (members) then
the chiefdom cooperatives would collect the bigger cooperatixre
requirements for delivery by LPMC; and latter would provide space for
storage before actual distribution. All importations and warehousing at
the port would bo either rented out or held at full cost. Basic inputs
like seeds, seedlings and fertilizers and chemicals would be under the
BPMUs development section. CARI would supplv breeder rice seeds to be
multiplied by selected farmers and on project seeds farms. Hybrid cocoa



- 13 -
and coffee seeds would be raised in project nurseries and some farmers'
nurseries would be supervised by the project.
3.09      Village Wells and Latrines.  The original project appraisal
did not specify latrines as components of the project. However, the
need was felt during project year two (PY-2) for the inclusion of this
program as a source of incentives to the farmers.
3.10      Schistosomiasis Surveillance.  Monitoring if project farmers
was deemed important and the project would strengthen the
Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit (SSU) established under Credit
577-LBR. It would also undertake limited testing of vector control
techniques. Additional staff, vehicles and laboratory facilities would
be provided for the unit. However, administratively, the unit would be
under the Liberian Institute for Biomedical Research.
3.11      Roads.  The project would construct 170 km of new
farm-to-market roads, upgrade 130 km of existing roads and maintain 540
km (including new ones) within the project area. The Ministry of Public
Works-(MPW) would work closely with BPMU, since MPW has the primary
responsibility of building roads.
3.12      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Lofa MEU would be strengthened
with additional staff and equipment in order to cover Bong Project.
3.13      Project Benefits.  Based on the World Bank Appraisal the
incremental benefits would be from the following:
TABLE 1
Anticipated Crop Yields
(kg/ha)
Crop                          Without Project                 With Project
Upland Rice                     1,000                             1,500 2/
Swamp:
Improved                      1,400                            3,000 (at PY-3)
Advanced 3/                   1,400                            5,250 (at PY-4)
Coffee (new)                      200                             1,000 (at PY-6)
Cocoa (new)                       250                               400 (at PY-6)
The project benefits include the provision of basic farm inputs and tools on
credit to make farming more wholesome and enjoyable. The secondary benefits
were expected from the infrastructure, mainly roads and health facilities.
2/        Based on average of semi-improved and improved scheme.
3/        Pilot



- 14 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Effectiveness.  The credit was expected to take effect on March 15,
1978.
4.02      Organization.  A Project Steering Committee (PSC) was appointed by the
Government of Liberia in 1978. The committee was chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture and the members comprised of representative from the Ministries of
Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs, Internal Affairs (Local Government), and
the Project Manager as secretary. This committee had the responsibility of
overseeing the project and its operations. An advisory committee on the local
level was also organized to coordinate community leaders and project at county
level. The PCC, headed by the Superintendent, provided all the local support
services needed to facilitate the effective implementation of the project
activities. Members of the PCC included the Paramount Chiefs, Cooperatives
Presidents, Clan Chiefs and other local leaders. The BPMU was headed by the
Project Manager who in turn was responsible to the Minister of Agriculture.
Nine divisions were established: Administration, Agricultural Services,
Commercial Services, Finance, Land Use Planning, Roads and Workshops, Training,
Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit and Monitoring and Evaluation. Historically.
the project had undergone some organizational changes. During the initial
stage, in the absence of the appropriate person to man the new Land Use Planning
Division (LUP), the head of the Agricultural Services had the added
responsibility of running the Division.   LUP became autonomous only in project
year three (PY-3). Similarly, Workshop which is now headed by a Liberian, was
under the Administration Division until PY-3 when an expatriate (British) was
recruited to head it. Similarly, the activities of the Roads and Wells Division
were administered by LUP until project year three (PY-3) when it was separated.
With regard to the suitability of the project staff, recruitment of Liberians to
replace expatriates has been on a purely competitive basis. Thus, the project
had been fortunate to attract and maintain some of the good talents in
specialized areas, even though there were a few who needed to be upgraded.
Liberian counterparts started taking over most of the various sections in 1979
(PY-2) and 1980 (PY-3). Prior to this time most of the Divisions, including the
position of the Project Manager were occupied by expatriates. The Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit was organized only in the latter part of 1979 although the
unit manager was in Lofa.
4.03      Staffing.  The trend in staffing the project was increasing
participation of Liberians. From PY-1 to PY-5 there has been an increase 'from
54% to 88%. By PY-5, only 12% (2 expatriates) were left in the project
(Table 2). Staffing in 1981-82 shows that out of 21 local staff, 6 including
the Project Manager were newly recruited and the balance (15) had been with the
project for 1-3 years. With the coming of a new Project Manager in PY-4, some
key senior positions were created andfor filled up. For example, the Plant
Multiplication Section was created only on February 8, 1972. The other
positions were the Sr. AEO, Sr. Soils Surveyor, Deputy Manager for M&EU and Sr.
Marketing Officer. Liberians started taking over senior staff positions in the
beginning of PY-4.



- 15 -
Senior Staff
The turn-over of expatriates was noticeably fast in the early years of the
project. In January 1978, an expatriate assumed the PK position. After a year
he resigned and was replaced by another expatriate on November 24, 1979 who
served the project for about 18 months. He resigned on April 4. 1981, almost
one year after the coup. A Liberian then took over for 8 months and by December
4, 1981, he was promoted and transferred to MOA. Then, the fourth handover was
made to another Liberian. These turn-overs, which were due to various reasons,
affected the operations and resulted in different reactions from within and
outside. In addition to the turn-over in major positions, the manager for
Commercial Services Division (an expatriate), served only for about a year (May
1978 - May 1979) and resigned. The Swamp Development Officer, also an
expatriate, served only for three months (November 1978 - February 1979).
Table 2
Senior Staff *
Category               PY-1         PY-2       PY-3      PY-4       PY-5
1978         1979       1980      1981       1982
(number)
Local                    6             9        16         23        21
Expatriate               5            5          8         7          2
Total                   11            14        24        30         23
(percent)
Local                   54            64        67         77        88
Expatriate              46           36         33        23         12
Total                  100           100       100        100       100
* As of September ending each year.



- 16 -
4.04      Physical Iuplementation.  The project achieved physically some
of the targets, see below:
Table 3
Physical Achievements
Component                 Appraisal Estimates            Actual
Crop Development (ha)          12,300                     11,723  4/
Civil Works
Village Wells (No.)               300                         91  5/
Latrines (No.)                 Not specified                  26
Feeder Roads                      275 (65 new,210 upgrade) 287
Culverts (No.)                 Not quantified                383
Bridges                        Not quantified                 44
Cooperative & Credit (US$)    2.8 million                    1.4 million
Note that the actual operations of the Project did not take place until
after nine months because of the difficulty of recruiting an expatriate
project manager.
4.05      Crop Development and Improvement.  Overall achievement was
about 95% of plan 12,300 hectares. The actual below is based on the
total area at PY6, the completion date and/or interim period in
preparation for Phase II, if any. If we compute the achievement on the
basis of PY5 actual, the rate would be 85X only or 10,462 hectares.
Details are found in Annex 1, Key Indicators. Note that in upland rice,
the scheme without fertilizers finally succeeded from PY4 although the
project was flexible enough to issue fertilizers if farmers asked for
it. From PY1 to PY4, cocoa should have showed an increasing trend
(area) but soon after discovering that many farms were not planted in
the right soils and crops were not vigorously growing, the project took
steps to minimize its disastrous effects, physically and
psychologically.
4/        At PY6.
9/        At PY5.



- 17 -
Table 4
Crop Development Program
Appraisal      Actual
Program                   Estimate        at Completion        Percent
(ha)                     (at PY5)                              (M)
Upland Rice               5,750           6,541                 114
Swamp Rice:
Improved                1,750             417                  24
Advanced (Plot)           300             Nil                 Nil
Coffee (new)              1,500           1,382                  92
Cocoa (new)               3,000           3,383                 113
Total                    12,300          11,723                  95
Although the figures on cocoa area planted were high, indications of
deterioration due to unsuitable soils condition were observed in certain
districts and to a small extent, the poor performance of the cocoa was
attributed to farmers' failure to conform with recommended maintenance
practices. Similarly, coffee actuals were generally not far from
targets specially in PY4 and PY5 and in fact, cocoa farmers with
unsuitable soils for cocoa were encouraged to replace cocoa with coffee.
In the case of swamp rice, there was extreme difficulty of convincing
the farmers that it is a possible source of greater benefits than upland
rice. However, the trend in area cultivated had been increasing in
spite of the obstacles farmers had to surmount, i.e. specially in the
initial development stage (see Annex 1, Key Indicator). The project
tried to rationalize the strategy by allowing more farmers to get into
swamp no matter how small the area was, say two plots 0.08 hectare only.
In this way, the project could show the farmers the actual benefit from
the use of the package. For this reason, the appraisal credit package
for swamp was revised into even smaller ones. But, as the farmers get
the experience they could expand to as big as 0.40 hectare.
4.06      Upland Rice.  The original schemes conceived by the project
included: (i) semi-improved (with LAC 23 seeds but without
fertilizers); and (ii) improved (with both HYV and fertilizers). During
the first two years (FY1 and PY2), 40 out of 360 hectares and 45 out of
860 hectares respectively, were planted using "improved package" with
fertilizers. Based on the studies of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(MEU), farmers showed little interest in using fertilizers partially
because it was too costly, and they had not acquired the requisite
technical know-how for effective application. They could get good
yields even without fertilizers if the bush fallow is above 8 years.
Crop-cutting surveys conducted by MEU show that the difference in yield
between "with fertilizers" and "without fertilizers" was about 38
percent. However, many of the farmers who adopted HYV and fertilizers



- 18 -
had only a small cropped area. On the other hand, the "without"
fertilizer scheme became more successful when farmers would just
exchange their local rice seeds for project LAC-23. They felt that they
had no burden on repayment of loan. Some farmers complained that after
three years the yield of the seeds tend to decrease. Many farmers could
not offer rice seeds for direct exchange, hence, repayment in kind was
usually deferred to the end of the crop year with five additional lbs.
per every 100 lbs. of LAC-23 being returned to the project.
4.07      Swamp Rice.  There was no swamp controlled irrigation.  Hence,
the concept of advance was a misnomer. Swamp rice farms could be
considered improved even though the land use intensity reached only 1.2
or 1.3 that is 20 to 30 percent of area double cropped. Considering
that many swamps are characterized by high iron-toxity, IR-5 and S-8
varieties were recommended and distributed. They mature in five months.
Earlier, the project was not very successful in encouraging farmers to
go into swamps because of the many arguments of schistosomiasis and
other diseases associated with swamps. But the few old farmers who had
sustained efforts and had bigger farms were happily reaping the benefits
from greater production and relatively higher yields. However, a good
number of swamp farmers could not cope up with the demand for greater
care and maintenance, hence, the following consequences: (i) either they
fall back temporarily to traditional culture; (ii) stop permanently and
let the developed swamp revert to its former state of undevelopment;
and/or (iii) reduce the size being cultivated. Policies on swamp rice
varied from one Project Manager to another. In 1980, the policy to
de-emphasize nurseries and transplanting was apparent. The reason was
mainly due to labor constraints. However, experience showed that
yields/production were not encouraging with direct seeding or
broadcasting in the swamps. MEU observed that transplanted swamps
yielded significantly higher if properly maintained, i.e. fertilized and
weeded according to recommendations.  AlBo, the proportion of farmers
who double-cropped was only about 40 percent in 1980 and may be less in
later years because of the lack of water in the swamps and in some
cases, laziness on the part of some farmers.
4.08      Cocoa.  All cocoa farms were newly established.  Many farmers
got so interest.u in cocoa as is shown by the increasing trend in
participation and area planted over the first four years. But this
trend stopped and the enthusiasm damped by the late discovery of the low
potential in Bong County because of poor soils. Some areas more
suitable for coffee were also planted to cocoa. Coupled with the big
decrease in price of cocoa, the project had to divert its tree crop
production away from cocoa. The low tolerance of cocoa to heat (sun)
caused many farms without sufficient shading a great disaster. Damage
to the extent of more than 50% of the trees was observed specially where
maintenance was not followed.
4.09      Coffee.  The actual area achieved in coffee (new) was 92
percent by the end of PY-5. The constraint in the effective
implementation of the coffee program was partly due to the inability of
LPMC to deliver the seedlings ordered by the project. Hence, until



- 19 -
later on, the project had to put up its own nurseries for both coffee
and cocoa. The demand, nevertheless, increased over time. Earlier the
project made it a policy to set a minimum area for tree crops at 1.5
acres (0.61 hectares) for a development loan but later this was
decreased to only 1.0 acre (0.4 hectares) so that more farmers could be
served. The quantity of seedlings available became a constraint.
4.10      Input Distribution.  The project distributed to farmers during
the project years the following:
Table 5
Input Distribution
Input                            Appraisal                    Actual
(5 years)                   (5 years)
Rice Seeds (m.t.) 6/                390.0                       379.3
Coffee Seedlings ('000) 7/        1,889.7                     1,889.7
Cocoa Seedlings ('000)            3,790.0                     3,840.3
Fertilizers (m.t)                 3,732.1                       212.8
4.11      Cooperatives and Credit.  The growth of cooperatives in the
area was apparent with the implementation of BCADP. However, three
places were cited as the forerunner of cooperative movement in Bong: (i)
Kpartwee; (ii) Kilebei, and (iii) Zota. Unlike in Lofa, the movement in
Bong was clearly strengthened bv the project in the area of input
supplies and credit and marketing of farm produce. The effective
utilization of the cooperative as a tool for agricultural development
was indicated strongly in the produce buying made by Tungban Federation
of Cooperatives in BCADP area. The buying of farmer's produce started
only in PY-4 when six district cooperatives formed a federation and were
licensed by LPMC to buy directly from farmers. The federation was
registered and officially designated as agent of LPMC. By the end of
PY-5, the membership of the cooperatives rose to 7,489 (or 81% of
appraisal target) in 230 CSU (Cooperative Service Units) in villages.
By PY-6 the total membership had grown to 8,321. It is still 8% below
the total projected cooperative members.
4.12      The cooperatives experienced great difficulties due to the
lack of competent leaders and officers to implement the operations of
the organizations. The project took on the responsibility to help the
Tungban Cooperative Union (Federation) in its function as buying agent
because of the problems inherent in a new venture.  However, there were
many limitations, e.g., from finance to personnel.
6/        Both swamps and upland of which 94% was upland.
7/        All new plantings.



- 20 -
4.13      By the end of PY-5 the total loans actually disbursed by the
project had reached $1.3795 million of which 87 percent was given as
development loa-n to farmers, and the balance of 13 percent as seasonal
credit. Repayments of seasonal loans fluctuated over the project
period. The tremendous effort in 1980-81, offset the previous years'
collection. Overall, the recovery of seasonal loans from PY-1 to PY-5
was 90 percent (seasonal loan disbursed was $178,000 against $160,400
recovered), (see Annex 1 Key Indicators). Below shows the trend.
Table 6
Seasonal Loans Disbursed)
and Recovered
Seasonal
Year    Loan Extended        Amount Repaid       Balance        Z Recovery
(1,000 dollars)
1978       11.2                   9.0              2.2               80
1979       24.8                  12.5             12.3               50
1980       44.9                  27.5             17.4               61
1981       50.2                  77.4*           (12.2)              96
1982       46.9                  34.0             12.9               73
Sub-total *178.0                160.4              17.6              90
1983       22.8                  n.a                 - 
*Includes repayment for old loans and not necessarily for 1981 loans
alone. Hence the Z recovery was computed on the basis of total loans
extended from 1978 to 1981 against recovery for the same period.- The
coup in 1980 affected psychologically the mental attitude of the farmers
for repayments. Collection, therefore, was adversely affected and
recovery was relatively low. Immediately after the coup while the
situation was tense, the Tungban Cooperative Federation was conceived
and registered. About $100,000 was borrowed from ACDB for the produce
buying. Hence, in the 1981-82 produce buying season, the Union made a
profit of about $6,846 after paying ACDB on its principal and interest
plus other expenses. Such profit was divided and 45% went to the
Tungban Union and the 55Z balance distributed among the six cooperatives
according to their ccutributed sales value.
4.14      Revolving Credit Funds.  The amoun, of money paid back by
farmers (principal plus interest) is put back into a Revolving Credit
Fund (RCF) in ACDB. Of the 10% interest paid on the farmer's loan, half
of it should go to this fund. By the end of PY-5. the total cash in the
RCF was $108,554 or 32% of the cumulative "surplus" targetted in PY-4.
4.15      Civil Works.  The project experienced a long "pre-operation"
period, hence,land development and building of residential staff houses
were started on the site of the Headquarters in Suakoko. Of those staff
houses, three were built in PY2. The other buildings constructed



- 21 -
included one store house and training building in 1979; the workshop,
three sub-centers, one SSU Laborator;7, one shed, and one recreation but
in 1980, one administration building, one 3 room guest house in 198.,
two toilets (serarate), one pump, two sub-center sheds, and one gas
station house in 1982. Delays were generally experienced specially in
the construction of the administration building because of the coup in
1980.  Financial constraints were also experienced.  As in Lofa ADP, the
MPW7 was supposed to complete and rehabilitate roads.  A lump sum was
funded by USAID to MPW to buy and maintain heavy road building
equipment. However, the agreement between BCADP, USAID and MNW was not
successfully adhered to. In the end BCADP had to take full
responsibility for constructing these roads.- With the assistance of
USAID, BCADP got all the equipment from MPW in 1982 but much repairs
were needed on some, while others required complete overhaul and/or new
replacements. The details of accomplishments are shown in Annex 1. Key
Indicators.
4.16      Wells and Latrines.  Originally, latrines were not in the
project proposal.  However, in 1979 the Liberian President visited the
ADPs and saw the need and consequently suggested that latrines be
included as part of an integrated approach to rural development. The
wells were solely handled by the project but latrine was a
semi-self-help with some assistance from the project. The wells were
received with interest but not latrines. People were re]uctant to help
dig pits and produce mud blocks. Over a period of five vears
(1978-1982) about 100 wells were installed. Of these wells about 40%
were inoperational after two or three years. No problems were observed
in the proper maintenance and in some cases a big drawdown on water
table caused breakdowns for overstressing the pumps. Latrines, on the
other hand could have been more successful if the felt need was well
defined in the community. Onlv 26 units of latrine were built but
utilization did not seem to be at maximum.
4.17      Schistosomiasis.  The SSU became fully organized with the
appointment of the supervisor. By 1982 (PY5) about 174 swamps and 49
contact sites were surveyed. About 2,696 farmers were tested for S.
Heamatobium and 2,612 tested for S. Mansoni. Children and other village
people were also tested.  In some places, the children were the common
carrier and victim specially of S. Heamatobium (urinary form). Later
on, the SSU started engaging in treating victims specially swamp farm
families.  Monitoring of old and new swamps and new contact sites were
conducted also.  On the last year, a health officer was hired to treat
people not only of schistosomiasis but also other kinds of infection.
It was becoming a financial burden to give drugs to treat patients. In
the beginning, the analysis of stool and urine specimens showed a wider
range of infections but by the end of the project period the range of
infection among swamp farmers reduced to about 9% with S. Heamatobium
and to about 14% with S. Mansoni.
4.18      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  The M&E was not organized
until the latter part of 1979 when a Deputy Manager was recruited on
August 15, 1979. The Unit was functioning under the direction of the



- 22 -
Lofa Project M&E Manager who finally moved into BCADP in February 1980.
The very first s-irvey conducted was a Farm Business Survey (PBS) similar
to the one in Lofa. Crop--cutting of rice for yield estimation was also
started and conducted yearly, thereafter for upland and swamp rice for
both project and traditional farms. The weekly interviews were started
only after the preliminary analysis of the FES data to know the critical
areas for observation.
4.19      Many ad hoc activities were also undertaken including the
assessment of the seedlings production and distribution (tree crops),
updated economic and financial returns studies for both Lofa and Bong
Projects, feasibility of loan repayments and benefits from project
roads. The joint WB/IDAIIFAD evaluation team that visited the project
in 1981 considered the works being done by the MEU were the appropriate
types of activities and the only limitation (for which suggestions for
improvement were advanced) was the selection of samples. However, this
problem was brought about more by the limited number of staff to perform
independent studies.
4.20      Among the documents produced by the Unit were discussion
papers for the Project Managers and other division managers which
provided data on rice yields and input analysis, labor supply and demand
for labor at critical periods, farm enterprise costs and returns, case
study of seed rice production, maintenance of cocoa/coffee on Bong
Project farms, food consumption and expenditures of farmers, food cash
expenditures for Kuu labor, cash flows and budget of a swamp rice farm
(case), and marketing of produce.
4.21      Some major policy decisions were influenced by the M&E results
and recommendations including the emphasis on the use of transplanting
of rice in swamps in favor of broadcasting, and restruction of loan
repayments to postpone the first amortization of loans on tree crops and
to prolong the grace periods.
4.22      Consultant Services.  Except for the expatriates who were
recruited to manage the various divisions including the position of the
Project Manager, no specification was made at appraisal with respect to
the quantity of technical man-months that would be recruited to up-grade
or oversee any specific component of the project. During project
implementation, local consultant services have been employed to assist
the Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit. A management accountant (Indian)
was also recruited to review, reorganize where necessary and set up an
appropriate farm record keeping system and related services to
facilitate easy monitoring of the general accounts of the project.
Lessons from implementation tend to suggest that project benefits would
have been significantly improved if consultant services were utilized in
both the swamp development and the tree crops programs (cocoa/coffee
specialist).
4.23      ACDB Services.  The bank in Gbarnga City operated not only for
general banking services, and extension of credit but also provided
services to the project. The RCF was kept by ACDB. As in Lofa, ACDB



- 23 -
experienced cash shortages and this affected the timely delivery of
wages and salaries for project employees. In fact, even the RCF was
badly affected as a result of the 1980 coup.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
5.01      Costs.  The project costs reached $16.9 million by the end of
1981 crop year September 30, 1982 against the appraisal estimate of
$20.3 million. Breakdown of the project costs up to September 30, 1982
are as follows:
TABLE 7
Project Costs
(S '000)
Appraisal*     Actual**        Z of Appraisal
Buildings                    542.0       1,223.2              225
Vehicles                     488.1        1,025.4             210
Furniture & Equipment        371.0         683.9              184
Salaries & Wages           5,424.0       5,621.0              104
vehicle Oper. Costs          676.9       1,972.9              291
General Services             561.0       1,735.7              309
Farm Inputs                2,775.7       2,060.7               74
Hired Labor                  660.1         249.4               38
Road Construction          2,312.5       1,881.5               81
Research                     650.0         259.2               40
Consultant                   150.0         -                    0
Feasibility Study            200.0          90.5               43
Village Wells                100.0          168.1             168
Dev. of Banking Inst.        150.0         -                    0
Contingencies              5,194.5           8.2                0
TOTAL                     20,255.8      16,979.7               84
*   Over 5-years ending June 30, 1982 (FY)
**   Up to September 30, 1982
5.02      Without contingencies the actual costs exceeded the
appraisal's costs of about $15,06 million ($20.25 less $5.19 million
contingencies). Hence, the figures under actuals have built-in
contingencies. The actual costs incurred for buildings, vehicles,
furnitures and equipment, vehicle operating, general services and
village wells were significantly higher than what the appraisal
estimated. Hired labor and farm inputs fell below those of the
appraisal. The cost overrun in the vehicle operating and general
services were partly due to the unrelated use during the 1980 upheaval,
and in buildings the overrun was due mainly to the unusual increase in
price of construction materials not expected by the appraisal. The
problem was also exaggerated by the delays in the construction of



- 24 -
buildings specially the Administration which was completed in PY-4
(1981). The contractors failed to fulfill their obligations as per
contract. On vehicles the over-expenditure was mainly due to the
unexpected useful life, that is, shorter than the assumed 4-5 years;
costs of maintenance was also higher than expected. The budget for
consultants should have been used in areas where the operations were
weak specially in the area of land use planning and comercial/credit.
The cost of farm inputs was only 74 percent of the appraisal. The
inability of the project to receive the bulk of fertilizers from abroad
through LPMC in 1980-81 set back the proper maintenance specially of
tree crops. Hence, while the physical area targets for tree crops were
met, the quality of the plants was affected. Even the area in swamp
rice never increased even to 50 percent of the target. MEU studies
showed that farmers in general were using less fertilizers than
recommended particularly in swamp rice. What quantity the farmers
received from the project was used for two or more seasons to allay
their fear of high-cost production.
5.03      Financing.  Funding for the first phase of the project was
jointly done by IDA, USAID and the Government of Liberia in the tune of
US$7.0, US$6 and US$6.7 million respectively. While IDA participated in
financing all components except farm inputs, hired labor and the
feasibility study, USAID's participation was limited to only three
activities: PMU salaries, farm inputs and road construction. This plan
experienced some modification during implementation. Table 9 below has
the breakdown of the project funding.
Table 8
Project Financing
From April 1, 1977 to December 31, 1982
Co-financier         Appraisal           Actual            %
(US$ million)
IDA                 7.0                6.5             93
USAID                6.6                3.6             55
GOL                 6.7                7.8            116
ALL                20.3               17.9  8/         88
5.04      Procurement.   The project, during its first Phase
implementation, adhered to the procurement guidelines agreed upon with
the co-financiers at project appraisal. All of its procurement (both
local and foreign) have been done on a competitive basis. The project's
8/        Note:  This figure is at 31st December, 1982;  therefore, it
differs from the figure shown in Table 7 which is at the crop
year ended 30th September, 1982.



- 25 -
experience with foreign procurement has been mixed; going from
occasional shortage on the International Markets to delivery of
inconsistant materials - (spare parts) and to escalating International
prices, thus making it difficult to adhere to budgetary appropriations.
For local procurement, the project closely followed the competitive bid
system. Except for a few internal structural changes, there was no
significant deviation from plan.
5.05      Disbursement.  Disbursement for Phase I implementation
commenced nine months earlier (pre-operational period) than the date for
actual productive activity. The recruitment of expatriate personnel to
man the project and the erection of office and residential quarters were
carried out during this period. Throughout the life of project,
disbursement has most often lagged b-dgetary timetable.
5.06      The financial crisis that has plagued the National Economy has
had some adverse spillover effects on the project. The inability of the
Government to disburse, on time, its allotment seriously hampered
project activities during the latter years of implementation. It is
management's fervent hope that the creation by Government of a special
budget for development projects along with the participation of the
African Development Bank will improve the situation for the future.
VI. PROJECT IMPACT
6.01      The main program of crop and farm development was to develop
12,300 hectares of upland rice, swamp rice, cocoa and coffee. All these
areas were new and no rehabilitation was implemented even in swamps. In
spite of the difficulty of compiling data over time, specially on
production and area, it was made possible at least with rice in the last
4-5 years. Therefore, it is quite possible to measure roughly the
impact of the project. But in the case of tree crops, the gestation
period is longer because fruiting and income generation come much later
than with rice, it is not possible to view its impact in a short run.
Given the revised yield projection specially for tree crops; there is
good reason to be hopeful for increased production.
6.02      Crop Yields.  The National Agricultural Production survey
carried out in 1978 shows that the yield of rice was about 1,235 kg/ha.
On the other hand, the MEU in BCADP started crop-cutting surveys in 1979
(PY2) and conducted surveys every year to find out any trend in yield
and area cultivated specially in swamp rice. In order to assess for any
possible increase, traditional farms were also surveyed for yields and
inputs-basically seeds and labor. In PY5 and 6, attempts were made to
estimate yields on project tree crop farms. However, the data obtained
during these two periods were too small to make any meaningful
statistical inference.
6.03      Upland Rice.  The appraisal estimated that the yield of upland
rice would improve from about 1,000 kg/ha without much development to
1,800 kg/ha with development.  This means that the project package of



26 -
inputs LAC-23 (RYV) and fertilizers (minimum package), the benefit due
to these would be about 800 kg/ha. In the first two year. this package
called "Improved" scheme (without fertilizer.) was introduced.
Comparatively, the yields of the "Improved" farms were higher, on the
average, than "Semi-Improved" but not appreciably, about 300 kg/ha and
not 500 kg/ha as estimated in appraisal. Hence, for most farmers, it
was better for them to do without fertilizers because with LAC-23 (iYV)
rice seeds and cultivating old bushed land, (10-15 years) could give as
much as 1,560 kg/ha, on the average, or an incremental yield of 560
kg/ha. For this reason, the project promoted the EYV without
fertilizers and to stop it all, the Seed Exchange Program was launched
with ease in 1980. Farmers were allowed flexibility to decide whether
to take HYV seeds plus fertilizers or not. The farmers felt freer to
just get the project rice seed with no financial obligations. In the
last two years (1981 and 1982) almost 95Z of the cropped area was on
Seed Exchange Scheme and 5Z on credit (seed only).
Table 9
Yields of Upland Rice
Project W/Out       Project With
Year           Traditional          Fertilizers          Fertilizers
1978              1,000                N.A                  N.A
1979              1,038             1,100 (39)           1,421 (11)
1980              1,206 (121)       1,558 (63)              N.A
1981              1,200 (74)        1,417 (80)              N.A.
1982              1,234 (40)        1,540 (41)              N.A.
Weighted
Average*           1,171 (300)      1,424 (223)             Xmx
* From 1979 to 1982 based on crop-cutting surveys conducted by MEU; all
numbers in parentheses are size of samples in-farm.
The incremental yields show difference of about 21 percent between
traditional and project (without fertilizer) which was not any different
with fertilizer. The age of bush must have contributed significantly to
the good yields of project rice seeds. With proper timing in brushing,
broadcasting and harvesting, performance of project farms could be as
good as with fertilizers in older bush.
6.04      Swamp Rice.  In the appraisal, there were two schemes, namely
(i) Improved with Minimum Package (HYV Seed and Fertilizers) and
Cropping Intensity of 1.0/Year; and (ii) Minimum Package (HYV Seeds and
Fertilizer) and cropping intensity of 1.75/year at full developmesit. Iu
the latter case, it is considered advanced and by PY-3 the cropping
intensity would be 1.2 and by PY-4 onward it would be 1.75/year; thus,
expecting yield of 5,250/kg for two seasons. In the actual experience
of the project, however, farms could hardly with doluble crops reach an
average of 1.75 cropping intensity because of the inadequacy of
irrigation water. In 1981, MEU reported 1.3 cropping intensity



- 27 -
(average) and in 1982 the special survey reported 1.2 cropping
intensity. Less than half of the swamp farmers were able to double crop
and only to a very limited area. With the project the package also
included labor payments chemicals and tools. Sprayer, power tiller and
thresher were optional and in most cases only served as demonstration.
With the package plus the extension advice, production in the swamp was
observed to be higher than the traditional where cultural practices were
that of the upland. Land development in project farms included a
definite sequence of work such as: (i) cutting the main canal from the
bottom of the swamp to the top, thrawing the earth between the lines
marking the floodway bunds; (ii) from the top work down the swamp
constructing the floodway bunds, sloping the sides of the bunds; (iii)
construct the head dykes to the correct dimensions, ensuring it is well
constructed over old stream channels; (iv) construct the tail dyke the
same way but last; (v) construct the peripheral canal from the top to
the bottom, ensuring that water came in one way; (vi) construct the
return canal from main drain to peripherals; and (vii) level paddies.
In addition, bunds must be built slightly highly than recommended to
allow for settlement; clay must be used, bamboo cane used in bunds for
cutting holes.
b.05      In the beginning, the project extension staff were able to
closely supervise the development efforts in the farms but in the
succeeding years the level of supervision was diminished. In the latter
years, the swamps further away from the road were not given adequate
supervision. The works in the first year are usually not done with
finess and development works tend to continue, when necessary, in the
second year. The engineering works are never perfect and, therefore,
supervision is still needed. But since project did not have provision
for further development loans to farmers, everything was left to the
farmers and more often they lost the drive and incentive to work hard.
6.06      Input and labor utilization in swamp rice farms were observed
to be below optimum. Surveys conducted by MEU for four years showed
very small difference between farms with fertilizers versus farms
without fertilizers. In fact, with an average rate of 43 kilo/ha of
urea, the average yield was only 2.42 tons/ha against 2.47 without
fertilizers. However, the experience in 1980 and 1981 shows a
difference in yield of 319 kg and 286 kg per hectare, respectively, over
those without fertilizers. Over the four years 1979-1982 the overall
average rate of fertilizer use was only 144 kg/ha against the
recommended 247 kg/ha beginning 1980. The appraisal estimated 300 kg/ha
as the requirement (200 kg of urea and 100 kg of TSP). In well
developed farms where farmers gave full attention and higher level of
care and maintenance, the yield could easily go as high as 3.5 tons per
hectare. In general, the average yields were lower than expected
because weeding was done only once and partially by most farmers. Only
about 6 to 8 percent of the farmers did weeding twice. Also, the
assumption in the appraisal is that the yield in the first year would be
lower than the succeeding years and continue to increase as years go by.
This was observed to be untrue and not realistic in the case of Bong and
Lofa. In the first year, the yield was high and then decreased in the



- 28 -
following years because of the inability of the farms to replenish the
nutrients taken up by the rice plants in the initial year. The survey
by MEU in 1982 shows that there vas a decreasing trend among farmers in
the use of fertilizers. Nore new farmers also tended to use urea than
TSP. Perhaps the bias for urea was its immediate good effect on the
physical look of the plant.
6.07      There was suspicion, in fact, apprehension that many farmers
were dropping out from the swamps. However, the survey of the CMEU
(1983) and the Special Survey in 1982 suggest that many farmers were
only temporarily absent and had no intention to abandon their swamp
farms. The only problem that could be brought about by temporary
absence is that the growth of weeds and regrowth of some tree stumps
could bring back the "developed swamps" back to underdevelopment. This,
in effect may need fresh development capital. There were also problems
of tenure where the previous farmer stopped cultivating and a new farmer
is registered as new in the project but correspondent to the same old
project swamp farms (previously registered in the project, hence being
counted twice).
6.08      Cocoa. The appraisal assumed that cocoa (new) could start
bearing fruits in the 5th year after planting with 200 kg/ha yield.
However, PMEU observed sixteen farms that produced an average of 56
kg/ha in the third year (as observed also in Lofa). The yield in the
4th year of six 1978 farms surveyed by MEU was estimated at 224 kg/ha.
In 1981 when the preparation team for Borng II came from Abidjan, the
yields of cocoa was revised and brought to a much lower level than the
appraisal estimate because of the alleged poor soil conditions on the
project farms. The peak yield was expected in year 7 with about 450
kg/ha only and then decrease to 392 kg/ha in year eight onward.  Present
method of yield data collection is still very crude but it is expected
to improve as time goes by.
6.09      Coffee.  In the appraisal report, coffee (new) would start
generating income four years after planting. PMEU to date has not
produced reliable estimates of yield. Very few were observed in year 4
to merit the validity of the results. The maximum estimated appraisal
yield occured in year 6. The optimism shown in the appraisal was
hampered by the 1981 expected, year 3 yield at 56 kg/ha, 280 kg/ha in
year 4 and a peak of 674 kg/ha in year 6 and then decrease to only 561
kg/ha for year 7 onward. In recent years coffee has proven to be more
resistant to drought conditions than cocoa. However, the yield capacity
is also affected badly, it seems. Recent (1983 cropcut) survey of PMEU
shows an average yield of 163 kg/ha for year 5 farms and 108 kg/ha for
year 4 farms.
6.10      Prices.  In the appraisal the Bank forecast prices were used
in the economic and financial analysis. In constant 1982 terms the
prices were:



- 29 -
Table 10
Economic and Financial Prices
Economic             Financial
1980      1985       1980      1985
(US $M.T)
Rice (paddy)          237       239        248       253
Cocoa                 991       814        744       613
Coffee              1,548     1,260      1,179       956
6.11      The LPMC purchase price of rice (paddy) at 14% moisture was 12
cents per lb ($264 per M.T) from 1978 to 1981 and 18 cents per lb ($396
per M.T from 1982 to date). With the institutionalized increase in the
price of paddy rice from 12 cents in 1978 to 18 cents in 1982, farmers
were expected to immediately take advantage of the substantial price
differential through increased production. Analysis of the Phase I crop
development shows that total paddy production started 87% below the
target (63 M.T against target of 370 M.T). This trend increased
eratically from one year to another, except between PY4 and PY5. The
highest production was achieved in PY5 1,490 M.T, a little over 8%
increase above the previous year (1,374 M.T). The increase in price
really did not stimulate any substantial increase in production.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.01      The annual incremental costs and benefits data used in
computing the economic rate of return to the project are presented in
Annex 2.  The data on crop year yields, areas and costs of production
came from the Bong Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The following
assumptions and methods were used in calculating the benefits and cost
stream:
(a) Project Life: The life of the project is assumed to be
30 years from Project Year 1.
(b) Project Cost:
(i)       The opportunity cost of family labor was valued
at $1.00 per manday at 1982 constant prices.
Hired labor was valued at $2.00 per manday.
Family labor have been costed at 50% of the
market wage to reflect the average opportunity
cost and productivity in the area. Experience
shows that the opportunity cost of family labor
in the project ranges from as low as $0.75 per
manday around the Guinea-Liberia border to
$1.50 in the Central and Southern Regions. At
appraisal all hired labor was priced at full



- 30 -
market wage rate and family labor at 502 of the
market rate. Family labor participation is 382
in the first year development in the swamp and
from PY2 onward, family labor participation Is
85Z. In the case of upland rice, family labor
participation is 94% and the remaining 6% is
hired labor.
(ii)      All actual project costs were considered from
January 1978 through January 1983 and converted
into constant terms. Project costs were not
separated into foreign and local.
(iii)     All material farm inputs (seeds, seedlings,
fertilizers, chemicals, tools and equipment)
were costed at full landed price in the project
area.
(iV)      60% of the feeder roads investment costs was
included in the economic costs since the
improved road network will also be used for
non-project activities, and benefits derived
from such uses will be sufficient to offset 40Z
of the costs that have been omitted.
(v)       All of the village wells and latrine costs and
related infrastructural, research, consultancy,
studies and banking investment costs were
excluded in computing the economic cost. At
appraisal, similar deductions were also made.
(vi)      Only 85Z of the training cost was considered.
At appraisal, an amount of US $0.60 million out
of the investment and staff training was
excluded from the economic costs as they
represented investments and technical
assistance for development of socio-economic
infrastructure.
(vii)     Unrelated Costs:
(i)  10% and 3% of the Vehicle Operating Costs
for 1979/80 and 1980/81 respectively, were
deducted. Similarly 30% and 212 of the
General Services Cost for the same periods
above were also deducted. The
justification being they were associated
with the coup and have no bearing to
production. Military Personnel seized and
used project vehicles for activities not
related to project. This situation



- 31 -
persisted until project year 4 and finally
subsided by end of the year.
(C) Benefits:
(i)       Swamp - the area for the main crop was reduced
by 5% in the second and third years after
development and then increased by 5% in fourth
year. The assumption is that about 5% of the
swamp farmers only abandon the swamps
temporarily (about two years) and return
thereafter. The 5% abandonment is not
permanent so the idle area is brought under
production in about the third year after
abandonment.
(ii)      Double crop - area double cropped is 25% of the
main crop area. This represents a land use
intensity of about 1.25. At appraisal,
cropping intensities of 1.0 for PY1, 1.0 for
PY2, 1.2 for PY3, 1.75 for PY4 and onvard were
assumed. The current computation of the
project benefits assumes that double cropping
started from project Year 1 instead of in Year
3 as proposed in the appraisal.
(iii)     Tree Crop - the area of the tree crops were
adjusted (reduced) to account for mortality.
The four years mortality rate average is 19%
for cocoa and about 7% for coffee. These are
all first year mortality figures.
7.02      Using these assumptions, the economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimated at a little over 4% compared to 21.35% at appraisal. The
poor performance is attributed to the wide spread distribution of
unsuitable cocoa/and coffee soils in project area. The yield figures
used in the economic benefit estimation were based on recommendations
made during a World Bank supervision mission in May, 1982. These yields
which were based on good farms are 50% lower than the appraisal figures.
Benefits from tree crops are shifted much later than the timetable
proposed in the appraisal and the expected yields have correspondently
been adjusted downward. Additionally, only 20% of the swamp target was
achieved, and yield levels were not as high as anticipated at appraisal.
The creation of an Infrastructural Division separate from Workshop and
the creation of the Plant Multiplication Division are contributing
factors for the increase in costs. It is necessary to point out that
the ERR could be improved if all recommended cultural practices for tree
crop are closely followed thus increasing the per unit area production.
VIII. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
8.01      Project Management/Staffing.  Given the broad spectrum of
responsibilities and functions with which the Ministry of Agriculture
was charged and the serious resource constraints that prevailed at



- 32 -
appraisal, the proposal for a semi-automous body (Project Management
Unit, PMU) to handle the implmentation of the project met no opposition
from the Government. This proposal has the dual advantage of relieving
the Ministry of Agriculture from worrying about the day-to-day
implementation of the project and secondly minimizes the risk of having
special project funds diverted to other activities. It was also agreed
at Appraisal that staffing of some of the various components including
the position of the Project Manager be done through international
recruitment, since the availability of local personnal with the
requisite training and experience was limited. The following nationals
constituted the composition of the initial management staff: British,
Pbillipino, Indian, Sierra Leonean, Sri Lankan, Australian and
Norwegian. For the most part, it was envisized at appraisal that the
management staff (foreign) would remain through the life of the project,
after which the project's extension staff - better trained, equipped and
more experienced would be turned over to MOA for continuation.
8.C2      The day-to-day running of the project was the sole
responsibility of the Project Management Unit with little or no
connection with any Government Agencies except NPW and MRD regarding the
feeder road aud well construction respectively. At the local level, the
project affiliates with the Project Consultative Committee (PSC), a body
chaired by the Superintendent of the County and is composed of Paramount
and Clan Chiefs. The primary function of this committee has been to
facilitate the promotion of the project's concept and assist in the
recovery of the loans from farmers. The Management Unit approach to
running the project received little objections from Government and the
idea was generally welcome by most agencies. The misconception on the
part of some Government Administrators wherein they held such views that
the special nature of the project would leave littei or no room for
Government's input, was corrected through the periodic invitation of
Government officials and the public to expose and acquaint themselves
with project activities. These efforts have proven very helpful in
bridging the apparent gap between the public and the project. It has
also helped in winning and returning the confidence; of the poor peasant
farmers.
8.03      MPW's affiliation with the project was brief because of the
bad experience the project had with the Ministry in relation to the
feeder road program. The Ministry crew just could not achieve the
project feeder road targets which made it extremely difficult (if not
impossible) for the distribution of farm inputs and effective field
supervision. In three years, MPW had completed only a little over 25 km
of roads. At this junction, the project saw fit (after recruiting the
appropriately trained personnel) to take over construction of the feeder
road program. This move enjoyed the support of USAID (primary funder of
the road program) and the Government. The project association with MRD
was contractual (specifically to construct village wells). The action
of PM in the implementation of the project is accountable to a body
called the Project Steering Committee (PSC), which represents the
Government. All policies affecting the project must meet the approval
of this body which is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.



- 33 -
8.04      The inherent complexities in these smallholder development
projects requires staff of high level  anagerial efficiency, technical
competence and innovation. In view of this, it was agreed at the start
of the project that all technical divisions (Finance, Agricultural
Services, Training Cooperative/Credit Services and Land Use Planning and
Swamp Development) including the position of the Project Manager, be
occupied with international recruits working along side their Liberian
counterparts. It was only by the end of project year four, that most of
the managerial positions were taken over by Liberians. National
Political developments in project years two and three, coupled with
inadequate field supervision and escalating indiscipline, orchestrated
by a few difficult field staff, almost resulted into a stagnation of
project activities. However, the Government, realising the grave
consequencies that such deteriorating situation could bear cn the
project and ultimately the agricultural sector- immediately arrested and
corrected the situation by instituting some strict structural
transformation. The elevation of the first Liberian Project Manager to
the position of Deputy Minister and his subsequent transfer to MOA
coupled with the weeding out of some difficult employees were among the
rescue measures taken by Government to save the project. Since he
took-over, the current (fourth Project Manager) Project Manager
demonstrated tremendous managerial capabilities in improving the morale
of the field staff and cementing the working relationship of the office
and senior staff. In 1980-81 the Project Management experienced great
difficulties with USAID. The refusal of USAID to grant a waiver for the
purchase of tools, farm supplies including fertilizers, seriously
hampered project operation. In May of 1982, a six-man World Bank-Team
visited the project and conducted an indepth evaluation oS the tree crop
yield assumptions. The reporting system for the project is based on two
periods separated by three months, there is the fiscal period which runs
from July 1 to June 30 and the crop year which goes from October. 1 to
September 30 (used by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit).
8.05      Staff;yg in the project by and large exceeded appraisal
estimates, 471 -   compared to 255 in the appraisal.  At appraisal,
Agricultural Services Division and Land Use Planning were placed under
one manager. It was decided during implementation (1979), to separate
the two to facilitate effective supervision and easy monitoring.
Similarly, Workshop which was initially a part of Administration, was
separated and decentralized into two components in 1979: (1) a heavy
duty unit; and (2) a light duty unit both headed by a Deputy Manager.
By 1982, the heavy duty unit had been elevated to a fr.ll di-& ion status
with the requisite increase in staff and logistics to handle all civil
and infrastructural activities of the project.  By the same year, 1982,
it was deemed necessary to separate the nursery program from
Agricultural Services Division and elevate same to full livision status
(Plant Mlultiplication and Research Division) with the requisite increase
9/        As at December 1982.



- 34 -
in staff logistics to run the program. The World Bank hass in the last
year of the project life, recommended an adjustment (downward) of the
personnel of Administration and other divisions and the need to
strengthen Training, and Agricultural Internal Audit Divisions.
8.06      Extension Training.  Because Liberia did not have a pool of
manpower, especially at the intermediate lower technical levels, nor
could it turn out trained personnel for immediate project use,
substantial staff training funds were provided under the Lofa ADP to be
used by Bong ADP. It was also envisaged at appraisal that in view of
the shortage of cocoa/coffee specialists in the Liberian job market,
provisions would be made for additional senior Liberian technical and
managerial staff to be trained in project management and rural
administration. A technical training center financed under Credit
306-LBR was constructed at project headquarters. This facility has been
extensively used in training junior project staff, personnel from
several agro-organizations, and participating farmers, through farm
visits - Training and Visit (T&V.), discussions and audio-visual aids.
Short refresher training sessions are periodically held for field staff
and farmers at this center. The newly introduced concept of training
and visit (herein referred to as Training and Kuu) has substantially
facilitated and aided the extension st=ff in reaching farmers.
8.07      Cooperative Credit and Marketing. Unlike Lofa, Bong County
did not have a local credit institution. The BPMU Commercial Services
Division was given the exclusive responsibility for the credit program:
estimation of farmer or village group credit needs, distribution of
inputs, repayment of loans, and documentation. To date, the project
still handles the extension of credit to farmers and the recovery of
loans. The responsibility of keeping the accounts of the farmers has
been transferred to ACDB. The marketing of produce has also been taken
over by Tungban Union of Cooperatives for the county. There exists
currently six district level cooperatives each being composed of many
small village level cooperative society units (CSU).
8.08      Accounting and Reporting.  All efforts were made to adhere to
the requirements of the Credit Agreements, with regard to the size of
the credit packages and record keeping of farmers' accounts. All
records of farmers' accounts are kept by the Commercial Services
Division except for the recent move to transfer them to ACDB. The
Division, which is responsible for designing and releasing credits (farm
tools, fertilizers, farm chemicals, seedlings and cash for labor
payment) to farmers, organizing cooperatives and marketing of produce,
was headed by an expatriate up until 1981, when a Liberian took over.
Given the paperwork involved with keeping small farmers records, the
Commercial Services has done a good job. Nevertheless, the need to
improve the sy tem of record keeping in the Division still exists. To
date, it is still difficult to easily extract such information as the
number of farmers and a breakdown of number of farmers who paid their
development loans by year of establishment. With the improvements
introduced, the unit will be a bank of valuable information for future
planning. The Division reports periodically on debts and repayment



- 35 -
status. Financial statements and budgetary matters are handled by the
Finance Division. Monitoring and Evaluation Division has been
r-esponsible (in addition to other information gathering activities) for
compiling periodic reports on project activities.
IX. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
9.01      Project Design. With all due respect, the Bank must be
commended for piecing together an integrated rural development project
capable of providing such valuable services and inputs as extension,
cooperative training, feeder roads and the monitoring of the incidence
of schistosomiasis. The design included provision for adequate
resources to facilitate the achievement of project design. Sufficient
flexibility was built in the design to allow for unforeseeable events.
9.02      The primary shortcoming of the design came as result of
inadequate knowledge about the expected response of the intended
beneficiaries and the prevailing soil condition in the proposed project
area. This lack of knowledge was manifested in the unrealistically high
targets (yield) set for tree crops and swamps programs. Only about 20%
of the swamp target (area) was achieved. The yield assumptions at
appraisal were discounted by over 50% for the unsuitable environmental
and soil conditions. The expected response to the swamp program was
highly inconsistent with reality. Traditionally, the small rural
farmers are not swamp farmers, rather upland farmers. Encouraging them
to move into the low land meant breaking a long standing tradition.
Such change is viewed as being risky. Hence the program was received
with caution and skepticism.
9.03      Supervision.  Generally, the Bank's supervision teams
performed satisfactorily. These teams were very instrumental in
critically assessing the performances of most of the technical arms of
the project and in recommending possible means for improvement. Their
experience was very useful in either improving already existing systems
or designing new ones. The flaw in the maimer in which the farmers
accounts were being kept was unearthed during one of the team's visits.
Areas which enjoyed much benefits from the supervision missions are
cooperative and marketing, procurement procedures, monitoring and
evaluation and finance. The critical manner in which issues were
handled often resulted in improvements in the system.
X. CONCLUSION
10.01     From appraisal through completion, the project enjoyed a
relatively smooth journey. By and large the farmers in Bong are not as
difficult to work with as it may have seemed during implementation.
They were generally receptive to extension advices and supervision of
the project.
10.02     During implementation, the difficulties associated with
changing the lifestyle (from traditional to improved) was appreciated
although grossly underestimated at appraisal. Traditionally, farmers



- 36 -
produce rice for family consumption as a primary objective, and
marketing has a socia significance which bears little relationship to
socio-economic improvement. Farmers view rice and cocoa,'coffee
different as far as marketing is concerned. Rice is traditionally not
viewed as a cash crop. So price and other marketing facilities must
provide some incentive for farmers to accept the concept.  The overall
education process is much longer than what was envisaged at appraisal.
especially in the case of the swamp rice program. It was observed that
farmers who followed the swamp program and remained in it, realized much
higher yields than their traditional and upland counterparts.
10.03     Although not envisaged at appraisal a well staffed and a
logistically supported adaptive research unit is necessary to the
success of the crop development program. It is important that the unit
be closely associated with the farming pattern, only introducing changes
where absolutely necessary. Much on-farm trials should be emphasized.
10.04     The training facilities at the project site have and continue
to provide much needed services to both farmers and the public. Senior
staff have visited other projects and agricultural institutions
overseas. The need for more management and tecbnical training still
exists.
10.05     The feeder roads and wells programs enjoyed the most
enthusiastical reception from the villagers. The roads were very
instrumental in making many productive areas accessible and stimulated
marketing activities.  The program was key in the distribution of farm
inputs and supplies. Community participation was very encouraging.
10.06     Although set as a condition for USAID's participation,
importance of the M&E Unit in the project design was not appreciated
until the later years of the project. The human tendency of resenting
periodic check on one's activities has been the attitude of some project
personnel when dealing with the uuit. In spite of these problems, the
unit continues to be the fulcrum for coordinating project activities.
10.07     With the strengthening of cooperatives and the possible
handing over of inputs supply and credit functions to the cooperatives,
the total project cost should be reduced substantially. The matter of
strengthening MOA and related institutions should be considered when
designing future agricultural development projects. Much local
participation should be encouraged at appraisal so as to safeguide
against repeating the errors of the past.
10.08     In summary, while inadequate knowledge at appraisal gave rise
to much problems for implementation, and given the complexities of
changing a large subsistence agriculture and the weakness of national
institutions, the project, as a case study, for integrated agricultural
development, was successful. The lessons learnt during the first phase
implementation will certainly provide much guidance for future planners.
With the improvement of encouraging the block farming system in tree



- 37 -
crops, much supervision cost can be saved and greater benefits accrue
because of the inherent competition in the approach.



KEY INDICATORS
PHASE I and Interim Poriod
PY-1               PY-2                 PY-3                PY_  4             P__ -5                    pv-e
ITEI,              tlNIT        App-lA  Re/ Act   App  Rev    Act  App    Rev   Act  App    Rev   Act App  Rev  Act    Apa
_                      .s        wa._      _                     .  _                   _.   _    _. __   _    _                          
Farmers Participation        No.         500   500   34.0  14.00  1400   1233  2300  2180  2316  2600  3200   2301 1000  800 1299 ,
Cropped Area                 Ha.         500   300   320   750   940    815  1000  1540  1620  1000  1400   1598 1000 1619 1253   756                        809
lUpland Rice-TSmIrtSE          _         100    50    40   200   250       45   300   260   20    400   219            500 11 AL          _
Subtotal                                600   350   360   950  1190    860  1300  1800  1640  1400  1619   1598 1500 1619 1253   756                  756   eog
Swamp - Advanced                                                                                                                Ir 5     -   10               r
Swamp - Improved                                _      6   250   250       10   500   100    82   500   364    144  500  142   93        23           100 80
Sub-total                    "           100    50      6   350   350      10   600   100    82   500   364    144  500  142   93                     5 -
*:ocoa (New)                 Ha           -     20    30   300   300    181   700  1000   750  1000  1220   1074 1000 1215  978                 =            370
Coffee (New)                              -     20     3   150    s             350   350   33   50   b          3*5u  *  6 0 7 
Subtotal                                  -     40    35   450   300   2 4 5   1050  1350  10S3  1500  1820   i620 1500 1822 1442    ....    ._70
. Cxop.i Total                          700   440   401  1750  12l        5 i   2950  3250 2'7  3400 ia    *336   500 358 1270     8 ,79         45 t       1261
Yl.?ld % - Aieraxe          MT/HA.                                                                     I __
Upland Pice-SI/S_            "           1.3    -    1.02 1.3            1.1   1.3          1.4   1.3 |         1.4  1.3        1.5                          1.5
Upland Rice I.MP             *1.6    -    1.44 1.8                       1.7   1.8          1. 7   NA           NA   NA         NA
Swamp Rice ..ADV                         1.6     -    -        -             |
Swamp/Rice -IMP                                     7 *  1.6    - T  2.   -  -  2.9   -    3.2   2.1                  2     -23                              3.9
(Seml-IPsoved done only for the first 2 years)  without fertilizer.  SE-started in PY-3 onward (W/0 fert.) only seeds.
1/  As of PY-4 the *improves package upland discontinued.                                                                                                   I -
2/ Appraisal estimates.
3/ Revised estimates.



KEY INDICATORS
PY-1               PY-2          PY-3                  P-4                      P5 p.-6
T'EI                   UNIT   App_.  Rev.. Act   App   Rev   Act  App   Rev   Act  Apj    Rev         at   App    RaV       Act    App      Rev    Act
Cocoa (New)               KT/HA           -                  -         _ _ _ _ _ag    .054                      0.2   0.175      M.A     |      .35    *
Coffee (New)                _            - _      _       _     _     _        .06        0.3    0.28    A      O.X   0.45..    NA      _
Inputat                    MT                                  _
Fertilizers: Urea            '   74.1   15.0   5.0   222.4 112.0 14.2  .0.0  236.0  42.0 100.0  271.0  48.8  250.0  92.5  _
T S P          n    37.0    7.5   3.7   111.2  59.0  2.3  15.0  236.0  46.0  50.0  275.0  6.7   25.01242.5          5     *-              508
Compound                    4.0   -       -      6.0  5.1   -     33.0  17.0             _ _    |        11.17             ; .  -        68.6
Rockphose      U     -       -     3.6    -    145,0  106.0 405.5  -      -   579.0         I eg    670. _1
NPK                  -       -     -      -     _          299,0  -       -   360.0  282.0  46.3  95.0              75.2                   _
All                 111.1  26.5  1 23  333.6 322,0 127.6 49.5 505.: iii.o 1089.l  *32- o     1.18 t  2 a   346.7 Zi2.8                  1S0.0
;Se.ds
IH-5/s-a/BG-90             K,T.    5.0    -     0.2    17.5  -       0.1 30.0  6.0   5.0   25.0    14.0   9.1    25.  7.3        6.4                   3.1          W
LAC - 23                    *    30.0    -    21.0    47.5  -       51.0 65.0  90.  92.0  70.0    91.0  120.0   7S.C 83.6    .14.5.                   47.1
Total             ,_     _         35.0         21.2    65.o  -      51.1 9500  96.  97.0  95.0   105.0  129.1  100. 90.9    00.9          -           50.2
Seedlings                   1000                                                                                                               it
Cocoa                      _     50.0  35.0   370.5        232.0 84-5.0 1235. 1016  1235.  1312,5 1306,  1320  1500.;  1248.4                437.1
CcSXee                                               loom             - _3-   5 ;          7; 10"7 -   a  -   -; --G. --  M                      7
TOTAL                    a      _    100    41.  I        4  5 310,341  1853                      9.1947  1980  2250.1   -39.8
* Survey going-on at present
Appraisal estimates.                                                                                                                                      N I
Revised estimates.



KEY INDICATORS
_ . -PY-1         -      - _PY-2           PY-3             -,-4                      Py.-5                Py-6
ITEM                UNIT      AP      Rev 2  Act   App   Rev   Act   App   Rev   Act   App   Rev   Act   App    Rev   Act App                      Rgv   ,Act
Knife                                                  900             -      2100    =            Ooo    _000
Cutlas                           500            96    2650       _ _    14   5100    -     3271  5500    -        61   s soo  I        1687    -
Ax                               200            71      700            562  1200          .2545  1000          1576   1000             292                    527
807
Pirgalin/Spide                                 I -   90  900           77iO  2100    -       s           -o   67    3000                                -     -
bhovrl              _o1000_                      26    5500                                                                                     -7    -  SO00   - 69
Digger                           200      _     29      700           46   1200.             &2  lowo          . x17   looo   .         s*          .  -        60
Roe                      *       500           1221    750        x         x1000                      2sno ei          2                   500.
Sickle                             -  _                                     I _  _  _                                                                            a
Spriyers                                         1                     411      --                 -346                  -       -      75075
Bird N1ot                                                                                                        1 _  _  -  _  15 -  140  _3            -
Rice Thresher           *   *                            - _            _             -       _    _               2        _       _           .
TOTAL         -                2400           547   11100           2705   20700         11030  21000   -    1301  21000            7 _                     5J65
1/   Appraisal  estimates
2/   Revised estimates                                                                                                                                            w



IKEY INDIICATOR
t-i              Py_-2            IP3-3              Pr-4               PT-S             W-6
IT E              w UNI          KiCT   APP   REV  ACT'         REV  ACT   APP   REV   ACT   APP   REV  ACT
5. Credit             1000                                                                                 ------------
Loun  zo farniers                             -                 - .  .-
I
Development          47.8        11.4  236.0        11.9 518.7       314.6 822.9       280.3 876.9         86.5           288.
-      ~~~~T-         ----------- 
Seasonal              26.5       11.2   69.5        24.8  81.5        44.9  61.3         50.2  34.0        46.9             22.
1Tt'al                74.3       22.6  305.5       136.6 600.2 _     59.5 884.2  -   327.4 910.9          533.4            311.
Recovery a
Development             _                 _               . .           _                  _     _          6.70 _A
Seasonal           * 0.1  _.    23._                12;5  14.4   _   27.5  22.81   -  7734. -    - 
Total              u   0.1        9.0   23.2        1251.A7   22.8                       77.4              N1.51           INA
1/  Appraisal estimates
2/  Revised estimates                                                                                                                'I'



-- >V~C~A                                    f _i-3            Pr .Y-4         .  PY-5               PY-6
ITEM                UNtT              A_                                Re_  v   AAc tRev   Act    AD Rev   Act Ap_D  Rev  Act
6.  Project StaffinA             -             1
Administratlon *          No      28       _1   .JL.                    33           2       3 -         .34 -3             59    3   _      46
Pinance                           13          6    16    _       11    18            1 5    J18          17   18            16    18  __   16
Training                          20  _ _[          21           16    22             1    22            16   2223    22    _ 216
L;nd Planning                     51         11    51            22    Si  __.  24  .L   -               22   51            26    Si -     _Z
Ag. Servlices                     9S   -    J_117                71_ -   147 1.9_ 13    159    .    1    148              127   146         152
Roads & Workshop**         a_                                                        49                  53 _5S6 _6 
Commnercial                       24         41    33            45 I'              _ -     ll79           9 -   _i  .O -3 .                  9 2
S S U                      e      12-        _      14           11    14            13    14            13   14            13_  14 11  1
M E U                         ,    9         _=                   9    13            11  1j3             14   13            14    13 |_   14
TOTAL                         2 ;t5      130   29R7          221   331        .35   _                 78 _V2            L24   332 |    '468
!.   Training                    -                 _                         _   _ -  -  -                                _ -    -
(a) Staff
Pre-service            No.                 48  .               63        .      _   65 .               20       2_5 _
i In - Service           .05.          _17                                                              25_  _  -  -  21  291               1
(b) Farmer                    -         - -           -                 _ -   .        -      -     -     -      -                      I -
ResLdential           _                                                           2g                                     2 27
In - Fleld           ,     .    -    -           -           1127   -518                             7511 *l1 45-               -    -
*  Includes PHU                                                      Note:   In PY-1 the field staff were trained in Lofa.
*O  Previously under Administration
1/  Appraisal estimates                                                                                                                   tn -.
2/  Revised estimates



P_-1              P _-2             P-3         |       PY-4               PY-5             PY-6
I t e m                 Unit  APP   Re   Act   App   Rev   kct   App   Rev   Act   APp   Rev   Act   ApP  ReV   Act                IR     ACt
Infrastructure         -                                        -             1-  -  11 ------------- - --------- -1-
Residentia;            No      8 a
Storehcuse                                         I =    -  1  =                      -     -      -      - *         - I        -
Workshop                                                                         1                                            -
TrA in ing                     2    -            -     -                                          _ -  -  -
Admini3tration                         _                                                     -        1  __    -       - .              -
Sub Center                                                                                            2
SSUJ Lab1                                                                              -     -      -      -     -     -     -    -
Guest House                                                                                           1                                     b
Shed___-                                                                                      -      -     -      -      - - 
Palava Hut                                                                -     1      -     -      -      -     - _         -   -    -
Toilet (Headqtr)                                                                                                       2 =
Pump Attendatice                                                                                                       1
of
Sub gas station  _                  - _         -   -   -                 - r          -   - -                               -  -
,,n -ath house  _           _        ,................                     T _ ....ahou  _________.=_                       i              I
1/  Appraisal estimates,                                                                                                                 2 
2/  Revised estimates.
0_ w 



KEY INDI'CATORS
Pv-l  19' B_        PY-2   1979     .pY-   1980         PY-4  19lll         PY-5   82 IPY-6    198
.,  :UNIT            A tEA7 AR I -            Ac    Hav   Act           Rev   Act   App I Rev  Act   Ap   RV  Act
Vel l s                No      _       |  _   __ _     _      5        _  30    20    _       40    16  -5 5* 0                       i s
Latrines                                                                                                         75 |  -*
Rnad        -     -    -    -        1 ~~~~~~~~~~40           6    -      10     9           71. 
Access                                       4 _    ,  _.8  =48              68.8   40           83.2   26   104  96.5              J1.41
Recond/Maint                                   130n7 8_  _                         2 _  . 1'225   143.4  137       22 5 6           137. -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
That is the appraisal target for teconditioning.  The rest of the appraisal targets in this row are exclusively
for maintenance.
Includes 44.8 km constructed by BCADP and 25.6 km constructed by MPW.
1/ Appraisal estimates.
2/ Revised estimates.
XI



KEY IHDICATORS
..-I __                 PY2 -               P-3PY-4 .                        -    PY-5  -Py.6
_E M      . UNIT ARRv.v lAct   Ap                                RevI  Act                 Act          Rv  Act          IRvAct
~~~~~~~~Rv.'  Act |App                              |Rv |Act |ADP  Rev
19    Cooperat.;--es   _                    _>.                                                   .    _                                -
Clnm Memnbership     No  520         1967  1999         2786  4426         4216  7169  650o  6190  9300            7409   _        .970'
0. s s u           No~I                        t 
SWAMP (knew)         _     ___          _     _|30    24                       7    =      =      53 -    -          60 -
| Contact Sites                -       - _         .60    14                  16                  1 2 -                        
(New)                            _               l -  -   -     -             6
Farmers 2ested:  -                                                                                                            L -  -  -  -  -  -
S. Heema-:bitnu      No    _   _              _  |       935                422                  2 _    270    -    - 1069           794 
S. Mansor   N__'               -~~~    I   -    -: -                  t    :-  l0        t      t      I    tI 
1/ Appraisal estimates.
2/ Revised estimates.



(A)
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE I
INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFITS
A.  Incremental Costs           PY-1       PY-2      PY-3    PY-4    PY-5    PY-6    py-7    PY-8    PY-9    PY-IO               PY-I1       PY-12-30
1977-78   78 -79   79-80   80-81   81-82   82-83   83-84   84-85   85-86   86-87                 87-88       88-89
Building                         265.5      354.9      178.3   190.4   179.9   10.8       -        -        -        -              -          -
Vihicle                           70.7      305.8    109.5   328.1   211.5   25.5         -        69.4   164.2    44.0            55.8       148.8
Furniture 6 Equipment            119.5      152.8    105.9   115.2   156.0   14.5         -         8.0      8.0      8.0           8.0         8.0
Salaries & Wages:
PMU                    99.3      465.3    842.1  1173.9  1513.6  1541.6   427          427.4   427.0   427.0           427.0       427.0
IDA                    31.5      166.0    230.1   438.6   223.0    68.0         -         -        -        -             -           -
VOC                    19.9      110.1    240.0   415.3   480.3   312.2    82           81.9    81.9    81.9            81.9        81.9
GSC                    62.4      131.0    198.6   364.8   574.3   410.0   131          131.0   131.0   131             131         131              .
Farm Inputs                        5.7      149.9    447.0   968.5   735.6   706.2   439.31  381.3   346.0   346.0                335.0       340.3
Hired Labor                         -          2.2      25.1    84.0   100.1   150       150.0   150       150.0   150            150.0       150.0
Road Wurks                          -       690.0     182.5    70.9   204.3   230.3   108.5    36.0    36           36.0           36.0        36.0
Family Labor Q $1.00/MD           73.9      191.6    435.5   519.0   465.4   314.8   333.31  333.4   333.4   333.4                333.4       333.4
Faniily Labor @ $1.50/MP         110.7      287.3    778.5   697.8   416.4   491.0  .491.0   491.0   491.0   491.0                491.0       491.0
Less:  Tnvestment on
Training                         200       100       100      100      100      100     100      100      100     100            100         100
Present Ext. Services  ____ 4_2              46        51       56       61      68       74       82      90       99            108         120
Total (Undeflated)               506.4    2618.6   2843.6  4512.7  4683.0  3615.8  1497    1514.0  1610.8  1511.3                1511.3      143E
Deflated Costs:  at 1.n/MD    639.1        3046.4   2985.7  4352.3  4809.9  361i.8  1497    1514.0  1610.8  1511.3               1520.3      i436
at 1.50/MD   675.9    3142.1   3203.5  4611.8  5042.3  3717.4  1654.6  1654.6  1768.4  1668.9                 1677.9      1593.6
. _    ,                       .~~~~~~~'



(B)
B.   PHASE I BENEFITS:
Rice (Padi)          21         42       301      528      356      297     462      499      552      580            b14         688
Cocoa                                                        9       66     225      502      860    1072            1091.0       983
Coffee                 -          -         -    Neg.        8       46     217      503      856    1165.0          1165.0      1155
Total Benefit                21         42       301      528      373      409     904    1504    2268    2717             2870         2786
C.  NET INCREMENT VALUE AT:
Sl.00/MD.                  (618)       (3004)   (2684)  (3824)  (4437)  (3207)  (593)   (10)           657    1206           1350         1350
At $1.50/HD F. Lobor       (655)       (3100)   (2903)  (4084)  4669)   3308)   (751)  (168)           500    1048           1192         1192
1/ PY6 cost is 6% of building, 12Z of vehicle; 91 of furniture & Equipment; 1022 of PHU S6W 30X of IDH 652 of VPC 712 of CSC, 963
farm inputs, 152 hired labor, 13X of, is considered.  Farmers will be expected to purchase farm inputs three of the cropn on their
own. So Ex-poste Project involvement was cut back.
2/ In PY-7, the second year after the end of Phase I, only about 1/3 of PMU will be around and hence only 252 of VOC and about 322
CSC.
From PY-7 onward, the value of the family labor is the average of the previous six (6) years.



(C)
680    680        680         680         680       680       680        680
939    986       1034        1081        1129      1176      1176       1176
1156   1201       1246        1291        1336      1383      1383       1386
2775   2867       2960        3052       3145       3239      3239       3239
1339   1431       1524        1616       1709       1803      1803       1803
1181   1273       1366        1458       1551       1645      1645       1645
(A) At $1.00/MD - Family Labor             (B) At $1.50/MD - Family Labor
BCR 4% =  PWB         35644228 26    1.02                   BCR 41   36,442.88  -   0.95
PWC        35,622.26                                       38,440.34
BCR 5%  =             31,246.10 -  o.9                      BCR 5%   31,246.1   .   0.89
32,643.43                                       35,167.8
BCR 6%  m             26,943.15 =  0.88                     BCR 6%   26,943.15  .   0.83
30,699.94                                       32,376.78
BCR8%   =             20,362.15    0.78                     BCR 8%   20,362.15  =   0.73
26,015.91                                       27,903.33
(A)  IRR at $1.00/MD   .  4.34%                             (B)  IRR  at 1.50/MD -  3.16%



- 49 -
APPENDIX I
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON DC
TELEX NO. 440098
PROJECT's CONMENTS ON THE PCR
PARA 1.15 THE SECOND SENTENCE IN THIS SECTION SHOULD
READ: ABOUT 170 SWAMPS AND 50 WATER CONTACT SITES WERE
SURVEYED, 2,700 FARMERS TESTED FOR S. HAEMATOBRIUM AND
S. MANSONI STOP COPIES OF TYPICAL FARM BUDGETS FOR COCOA,
COFFEE AND SWAMP RICE ARE BEING MAILED TO YOU UNDER
SEPARATE COVER STOP THEY WERE OMMITTED FROM THE ORIGINAL
DRAFT SENT YOU STOP BESIDES THE ABOVE CONSIDERATIONS,
THE PROJECT IS SATISFIED WITH THE PCR STOP
REGARDS
DANIEL GOE






