Report No. 1307a-LBR                                                           FILE  COPY
Liberia: Bong County
Agricultural Development Project
February 11, 1977
Western Africa Regional Office
Agriculture Projects Division I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit = United States Dollar
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)       =        0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile            =        1.61 kilometers (km)
1 square mile    =         640 ac = 259 ha
I ton            =         2,240 pounds (lb) = 1,016 kilograms (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
AETC      -    Agricultural Extension Training Center
AGRIMECO  -    Agricultural Mechanization and Land Development Company
ALiT      -    Agrar-UND-Hydrotechnik
BPMU      -    Bong Project Management Unit
BWI       -    Booker Washington Institute
CAES      -    Central Agricultural Experiment Station
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FTC       -    Farmer Training Center
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -    Gross National Product
GOL       -    Government of Liberia
ICA       -    International Coffee Agreement
ICO       -    International Cocoa Organization
LBA       -    Licensed Buying Agents
LBDI      -    L,'berian Bank for Development and Investment
LlEC      -    Liberian Electricity Corporation
LIPA      -    Liberian Institute for Public Administration
LISCO     -    Liberian Iron and Steel Corporation
LPMC      -    Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation
LPMU      -    Lofa Project Management Unit
MA        -    Ministry of Agriculture
MH        -    Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
MPW       -    Ministry of Public Works
NSA       -    National Seed Association
PCC       -    Project Consultative Committee
PMU       -    Project Management Unit
PSC       -    Project Steering Committee
UL        -    University of Liberia
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
WARDA     -    West Africa Rice Development Association
WHO       -    World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -      December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian
dollar, with a par value to the US dollar.
The US dollar is legal tender in Liberia.
GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA - FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BPMU    Bong County Project Management Unit
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
IDA     International Development Association
LBDI    Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
LPMC    Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation
USAID   United States Agency for International
Development.
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwia be discboed without World Bank auionriution.






LIBEt'IA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ....                ......... ...  .. .........................              i-iv
I.     INTRODUCTION  .................... ...... ........ .......*                                        1
II.    BACKGROUND  .........  ........... ,....  1...     ..
A.      The  Macroeconomic  Setting  ..                     .......................               1
B.     Agriculture  ...............  .......                    .............................     2
-      Sector  Characteristics  ...............  .                    ........            2
-      Sector  Objectives,  Strategies  and  Policies  ....                               3
-      Sector  Institutions  ....... so* ... ... ............                             4
-      Other  Institutions  ................ ............                                 5
III.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  ................ ..........................                                    6
General  .................................................. -o...                 6
-      Topography,  Hydrology  and  Climate  .                      ............          6
-      General  Infrastructure                  ................   ......                 6
Institutions  ................................................. ....  ....           6
IV.      THE  PROJECT    .............................                                            .         7
A.      General  Description  . ..............................  .                                 7
-      Farm  and  Crop  Development  ....                      ..............             8
-      Development  of  Physical  Infrastructure                         8.......      -  8
-      Institutional  Support  ..........................                                 8
-      Other  Assistance  . ....................... a ....  .                             8
B.     Detailed  Features  ..............................................                         9
-    Farm and Crop Development                        . .....................             9
-      Physical  Infrastructure  .........ia....str.......s                               9
-       Institutional Development  .....................                                 10
-      Other  Assistance   .0 .. .........................                               11
V.     COST  ESTIMATES  AND  FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  ...............                                    12
A.      Project  Costs  ...............     O..* ....................                            12
B.     Proposed  Financing  .               ............ . . . .  ...........  ......            14
C.      Procurement  ..            ............... .    .. . . .. ...................... .       15
D.      Disbursement  ..            .    ........................................                16
E.   Budgetary Control, Funding Procedures, and
Accounting  Records  ..... ... . .. . .. . .. . . .   ........ .............           17



-2-
Page No.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...... ................... .a. . ......  18
A .   In st itut ions . .  . . . . . ..... .... . .......... . .... . ....... . ...... ..1 18
B.   Staffing  .o .... o ... ...o* ...... * * * * **......... **...* *..*   20
C.   Training   . .o ....                  * o * .......         20
D.   Farm Inputs - Procurement and Distribution                  21
E.   Credit Arrangements .........00000006...............        22
F.   Post-Project Administration o .............                 23
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, FARM INCOME AND
COST RECOVERY .... . ...   .. .. ...o....... ,.               24
A.   Plroduction   .....    o..oo-  o-  ........  o... ao..      24
B.   Markets, Marketing and Prices o ....... ......              24
C.   Farmer  Benefits   ... . ..... ... . .  ...... .  .  .  . .  .  .    ......... .. . . ... .  26
D. Cost Recovery .....o ... .                                    27
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....o...... ....................      27
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS o ..................      29
ANNEXES
1. The Project Area
2. Farm and Crop Development
3. Farm Support Services: Research, Seed Multiplication and
Extension
4. Farm Support Services: Cooperatives, Credit, Input Supply and
Marketing
5. Roads
6. Health Services
7. Organization and Management
8. Project Cost
9. Market Prospects and Prices
10. Economic Analysis
MAPS
IBRD 12367 - Project Area
IBRD 12366 - Liberia Rural Development Projects
CHARTS
World Bank 16393 - Project Organization



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Republic of Liberia (GOL) has requested
Bank Group and USAID assistance in financing a rural development project in
Upper Bong County. The project was identified by GOL, and prepared by Agrar-
UND-Hydrotechnik with funds provided under Liberia Agricultural Development
and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 306-LBR). This report is based on
the findings of a joint IBRD-USAID appraisal mission that visited Liberia
during May/June 1976.
ii.       The modern sector of the Liberian economy, composed of the conces-
sions (rubber, forestry, iron ore mining), commercial agriculture, manufac-
turing, construction and services, generates nearly 86% of GDP while the
traditional sector (primarily smallholder agricultural production) supporting
70% of the population generates the remaining 14%. GOL has embarked on a
conscious effort to diversify its economy and reduce sectoral imbalance by
promoting development of the non-enclave sector with a greater emphasis on
the development of the agricultural sector (to reduce imports of rice and
increase exports of cocoa, coffee, palm products and non-concession rubber).
Government strategy is to rapidly increase agricultural production through
development of large-scale public sector plantations (oil palm and rice)
simultaneously with smallholder development.
iii.      Pursuant to the above strategy, GOL has initiated a number of
highly capital-intensive, large-scale projects, and though some short-term
increases in rice output were obtained, costs have been high and have resulted
in some uneconomic investments. An alternative strategy, involving simple,
relatively inexpensive technologies, expanded use of rural labor and develop-
ment of infrastructure and institutions to provide farm support services, is
being developed under the Lofa County Agricultural Development Project (Credit
577-LBR). A similar strategy is proposed for Bong County.
iv.       The project area, consisting of Gbarnga, Kokoya and Sanoyie districts
in Bong County, has an area of 600,000 ha and a population of about 140,000
persons. Seventy-five percent of the households practice subsistence farming
and have average farm sizes of about 2 ha. Seventy percent of the cultivated
area is under tree crops, mostly rubber, and the remaining area is under rice,
cassava and other field crops. Ecologically, the area is suitable for the
profitable cultivation of coffee, cocoa, upland and swamp rice, besides a
wide variety of minor crops, vegetables and fruits. However, development of
smallholder farming has been inhibited by inadequate support services and
infrastructure.



- ii -
v.        About 9,000 farm families would participate and would be provided
with farm support services (extension advice, input supply, credit arrange-
ments, land development, soil selection) for development of 5,750 ha of upland
rice, 3,000 ha of cocoa, 1,500 ha of coffee and 2,050 ha of swamp rice.
The project would construct about 170 km new farm-to-market roads, recondi-
tion an existing 130 km and maintain 540 km; expand and improve the training
center and other related facilities at the Central Agricultural Experiment
Station (CAES) at Suakoko; construct offices, storage facilities and housing
for project staff, and assist villages in constructing 300 village wells.
The project would strengthen related institutions and promote new ones; it
would establish six chiefdom cooperatives to facilitate inputs, credit supply
and marketing for smallholders; provide technical and administrative staff
support to Ministry of Agriculture (MA); provide financial assistance for
development of rural banking; improve research facilities and capabilities
at the CAES; promote smallholder land registration; assist the Ministry of
Health in the surveillance of schistosomiasis; strengthen GOL capabilities
for project monitoring and evaluation; and would provide consultant services
for project preparation and reorganization of the MA.
vi.       The project would be implemented by the Bong Project Management
Unit (BPMU) established as a semi-autonomous entity within the MA. The
BFMU would be responsible through a Project Steering Committee to the Minister
of Agriculture. Coordination at the county level would be through the Project
Consultative Committee. The feeder road program would be implemented by a
special feeder road unit to be established within the Ministry of Public
Works; schistosomiasis surveillance would be through a special unit created
within the Ministry of Health, and evaluation and monitoring through a project
monitoring and evaluation unit established within the Ministry of Agriculture.
Project headquarters would be at Suakoko. The project provides for recruitment
and training of Liberian staff; additionally, funds have been provided for
seven internationally recruited staff to fill senior management and technical
positions for which qualified Liberians are unlikely to be available.
vii.      Total cost of the project is estimated at US$20.3 million, net of
all identifiable taxes and duties, and including US$5.2 million for physical
and price contingencies. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$9.7
million (48% of total costs). IDA would contribute US$7.0 million (34%),
USAID US$6.0 million (30%) and GOL US$7.3 million (36%). The proposed IDA
credit would finance 55% of total foreign exchange costs and 15% of local
costs, while the USAID loan would finance 45% of foreign exchange and 15% of
local costs. The IDA credit would be on standard terms.
viii.     Vehicles, equipment for offices, research laboratories, workshops,
and other items would be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines for contracts valued over US$50,000;
contracts of less than US$50,000 but more than US$5,000 would be through
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association; items
costing less than US$5,000 would be procured through local customary procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Such procurements are estimated at a value
of US$1.5 million. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15%



- iii -
preference when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers.
Contracts for construction of buildings, houses and purchase of construction
materials, etc. (US$0.7 million), would not be attractive to foreign contrac-
tors, and contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Association. International staff (US$1.6
million) would be recruited and consultants for project preparation and
studies (US$0.4 million) would be retained on terms and conditions and with
qualifications acceptable to the Association. Other items to be financed
include local staff salaries (US$0.7 million), vehicle operating and general
services costs (US$0.9 million) and assistance for LBDI branch development
(US$0.1 million). USAID financed goods and services covering road building
equipment, materials and labor, farm inputs, local staff salaries, vehicle
operating and general services costs estimated to have a value of US$4.2
million would be procured in accordance with USAID procedures.
ix.       The IDA credit of US$7.0 million would be disbursed over five years
and would cover (a) 100% of the CIF costs of directly-imported vehicles and
equipment (other than farm equipment and road building vehicles and plant),
or 90% of the total cost if locally procured (US$0.8 million); (b) 80% of
the cost of buildings and furnishings (US$0.4 million); (c) 100% of foreign
expenditure (including recruitment charges) for internationally recruited
staff, consultants, feasibility studies and overseas training of local staff
(US$2.15 million); (d) 70% of expenditures for vehicles' operating costs,
general services materials for village wells, local costs of LBDI branch
(US$1.1 million); (e) 20% of expenditures for local staff (excluding those
financed by USAID) (US$0.6 million); (f) 100% of foreign expenditure and 50%
of local expenditure for improving the CAES research facilities at Suakoko
(US$0.45 million); and (g) an unallocated amount of US$1.5 million.
x.        An advance of up to US$200,000 has been granted under the Project
Preparation Facility and would finance expenditure in connection with project
start-up activities, e.g., office buildings, recruitment of key expatriate
staff and vehicles.
xi.       Direct benefits from the project would, qt maru,ity (Year 13), be
the incremental production of 8,740 turis of rice, 3,000 tons of cocoa and
1,500 tons of coffee annually, representing nec annual foreign exchange
earnings/savings of US$6.7 million. The project would cause substantial
mobilization of labor in the project area, particularly the seasonally
unemployed. By 1990 the project would raise the net annual income of
the participating farmers from US$360 (US$68 per capita) to about US$850
(US$160 per capita). The economic rate of return is estimated at 21%.
Intangible and nonquantifiable benefits would accrue to the community as
a whole from road improvements, banking facilities, health services,
better marketing infrast'ucture, etc.  Development of the cooperatives
would create rural capabilities for institutional farm support services
while strengthening the technical, managerial capabi]itices of the MA and
other related GOL agerncies would help futute planning and implemtatation
of rural development projects.



- iv -
xii.      On the basis of the assurances, actions and recommendations obtained
at negotiations and set out in Chapter IX, the project is suitable for a IDA
credit of US$7.0 million.



I. INTRODUCTION
A. General
1.01      The Government of Liberia (GOL) has requested Bank Group and USAID
assistance in financing a rural development project in the Upper Bong County.
This report appraises a project designed to increase the cash income and
improve the quality of life of the smallholder peasant farmers in the Gbarnga,
Kokoya and Sanoyie districts by providing a range of farm support services and
other infrastructural and institutional improvements. Approximately 9,000
farm families would directly benefit from production increases in upland and
swamp rice, cocoa and coffee.
1.02      The project was identified by GOL and prepared by Consultants,
Agrar-UND-Hydrotechnik, financed under Liberia Agricultural Development and
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 306-LBR). The Lofa County Agricul-
tural Development Project (Credit 577-LBR), which was also prepared under
Credit 306-LBR is being financed by IDA (US$6.0 million), USAID (US$5.0 mil-
lion) and GOL (US$6.0 million). The institutional arrangements for the Lofa
County Project have been formalized without any difficulties; Government con-
tribution to date to the project fund has been satisfactory and the proj-
ect has received the requisite cooperation and response from the farmers and
local leaders. There were initial delays in staff recruitment but there have
been no major implementation difficulties and none are foreseen.
1.03      The report is based on the findings of a joint IBRD/USAID appraisal
mission which visited Liberia from May 9 - June 3, 1976 consisting of Messrs.
Farruk, Hachero, van de Poll (IBRD) and de Verteuil (Consultant), and Messrs.
Dawson, Spears, Guiot (USAID) supported by USAID Consultants Hatch, Jackson
and Honadle.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Macroeconomic Setting
2.01      Liberia has a total area of about 111,000 km  and a population of
1.5 million growing at 3.3% per annum. Average per capita GNP in 1975 was
US$410, nearly 60% higher than 1972. GDP (monetized sectors only) at current
prices in 1975 amounted to US$662.0 million, an increase of 22% over 1974
resulting primarily from higher contract prices for iron ore. In real terms,
however, GDP growth in 1975 was negative, iron ore shipments were 30% lower
than previous years, earnings from other exports declined and consequently the
declining trend on trade balance continued. There has not been any significant
change in the structure of the economy; agriculture and mining still account
for 24% and 31% respectively of GDP. The modern sector composed of concessions
(rubber, forestry, iron-ore mining), commercial agriculture, manufacturing,
construction, and services generates 86% of GDP while the traditional sector



-2-
(primarily agricultural production) supporting about 70% of the population
generates the remaining 14%. Concession or enclave sector contributes nearly
37% of the GDP with iron ore mining being the single largest activity in the
group. Income distribution still remains skewed; however, recent analysis
shows that since the early seventies, substantial redistribution of income
in favor of the traditional sector has taken place. Despite significant
improvements in Government's concession policy, tariff reform and tax admin-
istration, there is further need to improve overall fiscal management partic-
ularly in the field of expenditure control, resource planning and budgeting.
B. Agriculture
Sector Characteristics
2.02      Liberia is a part of the tropical rain forest of Africa but large
parts of the country are now covered with secondary forest due to slash and
burn agriculture. The climate is warm and humid with rainfall ranging from
4,600 mm on the coast to about 1,600 mm inland. The soils are adequate for
the cultivation of perennial crops (rubber, cocoa, coffee and oil palm) but
less suitable for annual crops because of rapid soil degradation and risks of
erosion. Therefore, soil fertility can be maintained only through the tradi-
tional system of shifting cultivation. However, valley bottoms and swamps,
consisting of alluvial overflow plains and low terraces can be continuously
cultivated with rice and other minor crops given proper water control and
fertilizer application. (Annex 1)
2.03      The agricultural sector is characterized by (a) foreign concessions,
(b) Liberian owned commercial farms, and (c) traditional smallholder farms;
the latter comprise more than 90% of agricultural holdings in Liberia. Foreign
concessions are limited principally to large rubber plantations and timber
exploitation. These enterprises have highly trained expatriate managerial
and technical staff, extensive capital investment, use large scale modern
technology and consequently, enjoy high levels of efficiency. The Liberian-
owned commercial farms primarily produce rubber but they are increasingly
expanding into poultry, livestock, coffee, cocoa, oil palm and some rice
and vegetables. They are moderately capital-intensive and have relatively
easy access to capital and other resources, often against the security of
their own interests in other sectors. Most owners are absentee and manage-
ment is poor, except in cases where the farm is large enough to support an
experienced professional manager. The traditional sector is largely outside
the monetized economy, is located in areas with minimal infrastructure, and
is composed of farms where less than 4 ha are cultivated each year. There
is little or no adoption of modern innovation, and the sector primarily
produces rice, cassava, yams and other subsistence crops along with some
coffee, cocoa, oil palm and sugarcane as cash crops.



- 3 -
2.04      Agricultural output in 1975 (at current prices) totalled US$197.0
million of which US$71.0 million originated in the monetized sector composed
of rubber (US$36.0 million), coffee, cocoa, palm products, etc., and US$126.0
million in the subsistence sector. Average growth in value of all agri-
cultural output during the period 1964-1974 has been over 5% per annum in
real terms. However, the traditional agricultural sector grew at only 2.4%
while increases in the concessions and commercial sectors have been larger.
2.05      Ecologically, Liberia is suitable for profitable production of a
wide variety of annual and perennial crops. Rice, cassava, and other food
crops are grown extensively all over the country, cocoa and coffee primarily
in the Upper Lofa, Upper Bong, and Nimba and parts of Grand Gedah Counties,
while rubber is grown in Montserrado, Bong, and parts of Nimba County. Oil
palm is indigenous and widespread, while coconuts are grown mainly in the
Coastal areas. However, profitable cultivation of oil palm and coconuts is
limited to the coastal belt (50-60 miles wide). Rubber, coffee and cocoa are
the major cash crops for the farmers and important sources of Liberian export
earnings. The total cultivated area is estimated at 510,000 ha, of which
37% (191,000 ha) is under rice comprising 171,000 ha of upland rice and
the rest swamp rice. Average yields for upland and swamp rice are estimated
to be 1,000 kg and 1,400 kg per ha respectively, and total production of rice
during 1975 was about 230,000 metric tons. Other crops cover some 300,000 ha
of which cocoa and coffee cover about 22,000 ha each. Due to unsuitable
climatic conditions, total absence of natural pastures, and endemicity of
trypanosomiasis, livestock production is of very minor importance in tradi-
tional agriculture.
Sector Objectives, Strategies and Policies
2.06      Prior to 1971, GOL's role in the development of Liberian agricul-
ture was focused on the rubber and timber concessions and commercial planta-
tions. Problems relating to traditional agriculture, rural poverty, and
inequality of incomes were not the major concern of the policy makers. In
recent times, however, development of non-enclave agriculture has been em-
phasized by the Government, budgetary provisions have been increased (3.8%
of total expenditure in 1970 to 7.8% in 1974), and some policy changes in-
troduced (e.g., new pricing formulae for export crops, establishment of
price stabilization and agricultural development funds, support price for
paddy, renegotiation of rubber concession agreements, etc.).
2.07      GOL objectives for agriculture are aimed at diversifying and mod-
ernizing the sector. Three basic strategies have been adopted: (a) estab-
lishment and operation of large plantations for oil palm, coconut, coffee,
cocoa, sugarcane, and rice by public sector corporations; (b) integrated
rural development projects whereby productivity, income and living condi-
tions of the small traditional farmer would be improved by providing a range
of farm support services and infrastructural improvements; and (c) implemen-
tation of special projects, expanded rice programs, etc., featuring fully
mechanical land development, and cultivation of cleared areas by smallholders
with support services provided by GOL. Under the National Development Plan,



FY77-80, allocations of US$33.0 million for large-scale farming, US$22.0 mil-
lion for integrated projects and US$16.0 million for special projects are
budgeted.
2.08      It is apparent that both (a) and (c) above reflect Government's
desire to rapidly increase agricultural output and offset the labor shortage.
However, experience from large-scale, mechanized projects in Lofa, Bong and
Nimba counties have raised some concern about their economic viability. Fully
mechanical land development has proved to be expensive (about US$1,000/ha);
serious damage had been caused to the fragile top soil; support services are
inadequate; and consequently production targets have not been reached and the
economic and financial costs may therefore not be justified.
2.09      The strategy for smallholder development being implemented and
first introduced under the Lofa project and proposed for the Bong project
requires: (a) introduction of simple, relatively inexpensive, technical
innovations that allow for better use of rural labor; (b) on-farm measures to
increase subsistence smallholders' yields of upland food crops and cash
incomes through development of upland tree crops and swamp rice; (c) develop-
ment of a low-cost delivery system for inputs, credits and other farm support
services; and (d) price incentive improvements for farmers by providing better
marketing facilities and pursuing appropriate pricing and marketing policies.
Sector Institutions
2.10      The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is responsible for planning and
implementing agricultural development programs. MA budgetary allocations
have increased since 1971, but their impact has been limited by low field
staff standards and inadequate management. The budget primarily covers
salaries and wages, provides minimal logistic support for field staff, and
fiscal management is highly centralized. MA is aware of the need to stream-
line its activities and is currently analyzing its needs with the help of
consultants financed under Credit 306-LBR (para. 4.17).
2.11      Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC).  All export crops,
excluding rubber are marketed exclusively by LPMC, established in 1962 by
GOL in partnership with the Danish East Asiatic Company (EAC). In December
1975, GOL acquired EAC's 50% shareholding but retained EAC as managers until
December 31, 1977. LPMC still has autonomous status within MA and the Board
of Directors (five Liberians, two EAC representatives) is unchanged. In addi-
tion to marketing coffee, cocoa and oil palm products, LPMC is responsible
for farmer support services for these crops and for establishing commercial
plantations. Two LPMC subsidiaries, Liberian Palm Produce Corporation and
Liberian Cocoa and Coffee Corporation, have been established for the commer-
cial development of oil palm, coconut, and coffee and cocoa respectively.
2. 12     The Agricultural Mechanization Co. Inc. (AGRIMECO) is a wholly-
owned Government corporation established in 1972 to implement large-scale
land clearing and farm mechanization schemes. It is operated as a commercial
company and is empowered to provide services to anyone; however, since incep-
tion AGRIMECO has cleared nearly 4,000 ha in the Lofa, Bong, Nimba, Grand



- 5 -
Gedah and Cape Mount counties for MA-sponsored projects, its principal clients.
Despite operational efficiency, the technology is not considered suitable for
smallholder agricultural development on financial and economic grounds (see
para 2.08 and 2.09). Accordingly, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that as of June 30, 1977 MA would not undertake any new large-scale mechanized
land clearing activities for tree crop development in the project area until
the proceeds of the credit have been fully employed.
Other Institutions
2.13      Liberia has not succeeded in creating and sustaining institutional
credit for the traditional agricultural sector. The Government-owned Agricul-
tural Credit Corporation, established in 1957, ceased in 1963, burdened with
heavy financial losses. Only about 20% of commercial bank lending is for agri-
culture and then mainly for concessions and commercial farms. The Liberian
Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI, established in 1965 with IFC
assistance) made 42% of its loans to the agricultural sector, but almost all
for rubber, timber and wood processing. Thus the only institutional and
extremely limited source of smallholder credit have been the Cooperative,
Credit and Marketing Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and LPMC. MA
provides credits for seasonal inputs but administration of the program is
poor, and credit recovery has been unsatisfactory. LPMC has recently intro-
duced a program of providing free seedlings for up to 10 acres to any farmer
willing to plant tree crops and, in the special project areas (see para 2.07),
a cash grant of US$30 per family per month until the trees come to maturity.
Such a policy is not considered to be consistent with efficient management
and use of resources and in the long run could impose undue burdens on the
Government's finances, besides hindering development of appropriate credit
institutions. These matters were discussed at negotiations and GOL agreed to
discontinue this policy with effect from September 30, 1977 and September 30,
1978 in the Bong county and Lofa county special project areas, respectively.
2.14      The College of Agriculture and Forestry in the University of Liberia
(UL) is the sole institution for graduate training in agricultural sciences,
while its Agricultural Extension Training Center (AETC) provides facilities
for the training of extension and other field staff. Additionally, the Booker
Washington Institute offers a four-year vocational training program in agricul-
ture. Agricultural research activities in Liberia, primarily carried out
at the Central Agricultural Experiment Station at Suakoko, suffer from a
lack of direction and coordination besides having poor physical facilities
(Annex 3). Besides Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministries of Action for
Development and Progress and Local Government, Rural Development and Urban
Reconstruction - are involved in rural development in Liberia, but their
impact has been minimal.



-6-
III. PROJECT AREA
3.01      General.  The project area consists of the Gbarnga, Kokoya and
Sanoyie districts in the Bong County 1/, and has a total area of 650,000 ha
and a population of about 140,000 of which 100,000 (19,000 farm families) are
engaged in farming. The people primarily belong to the Kpelle Tribe and most
of them are small farmers cultivating between 1 and 3 ha with average per
capita income of about US$68 per annum (see Annex 2 and para 7.07).
3.02      Topography, Hydrology and Climate.  Eighty percent of the area
consists of dissected rolling uplands, 12% are swamps (poorly drained valley
bottom), and the rest are isolated high hills or mountains. The climate is
tropical with a mean annual rainfall ranging from 1,600 mm in the central
parts to 2,200 mm in north and south. Most of the upland consists of deep
ferralitic soils with a high laterite gravel content and low fertility.
The valley bottom soils have textures varying, from loamy sand/sandy clay to
sandy clay loams and iron-toxicity in soils is a major problem.
3.03      General Infrastructure.  Social and related services are limited.
Roads are poorly maintained. The few small airstrips in the area are used by
GOL and private light aricraft only. Telecommunications between the area and
other parts of Liberia are limited. Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC)
runs the power station in Gbarnga (rated capacity of 2,280 kw) which supplies
the town and neighborhoods. There are 45 elementary schools (32 in the
Gbarnga district, 6 in the Kokoya district and 7 in the Sanoyie district),
14 junior high schools and 1 college for graduate studies. Under the Bank's
Second Education Project 12 community schools will be constructed in the
county. Medical services are limited to the Phebe Hospital and a few govern-
ment clinics (details in Annex 1).
Institutions
3.04      As in other counties of Liberia, two types of institutions - the
traditional and the modern public sector - dominate local administration.
There are six chiefdoms divided into 28 clans (based upon traditional lineage
categories), the clans in turn being divided into towns (geographic considera-
tion) and towns into quarters. There are four development councils (consisting
of paramount and clan chiefs and other leading persons) which have advisory
functions to GOL (through county superintendents) for development activities
and represent a formal link between Government and traditional institutions.
3.05      Land tenure arrangements form another important traditional institu-
tional link. Although the state is officially the ultimate owner of all land,
individual family right of usufruct is ruled by traditional laws and customs
and traditional tribal control in their respective areas is honored. The
1/   Administratively, Liberia has nine counties and five territories.



- 5 -
Gedah and Cape Mount counties for MA-sponsored projects, its principal clients.
Despite operational efficiency, the technology is not considered suitable for
smallholder agricultural development on financial and economic grounds (see
para 2.08 and 2.09). Accordingly, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that as of June 30, 1977 MA would not undertake any new large-scale mechanized
land clearing activities for tree crop development in the project area until
the proceeds of the credit have been fully employed.
Other Institutions
2.13      Liberia has not succeeded in creating and sustaining institutional
credit for the traditional agricultural sector. The Government-owned Agricul-
tural Credit Corporation, established in 1957, ceased in 1963, burdened with
heavy financial losses. Only about 20% of commercial bank lending is for agri-
culture and then mainly for concessions and commercial farms. The Liberian
Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI, established in 1965 with IFC
assistance) made 42% of its loans to the agricultural sector, but almost all
for rubber, timber and wood processing. Thus the only institutional and
extremely limited source of smallholder credit have been the Cooperative,
Credit and Marketing Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and LPMC. MA
provides credits for seasonal inputs but administration of the program is
poor, and credit recovery has been unsatisfactory. LPMC has recently intro-
duced a program of providing free seedlings for up to 10 acres to any farmer
willing to plant tree crops and, in the special project areas (see para 2.07),
a cash grant of US$30 per family per month until the trees come to maturity.
Such a policy is not considered to be consistent with efficient management
and use of resources and in the long run could impose undue burdens on the
Government's finances, besides hindering development of appropriate credit
institutions. These matters were discussed at negotiations and GOL agreed to
discontinue this policy with effect from September 30, 1977 and September 30,
1978 in the Bong county and Lofa county special project areas, respectively.
2.14      The College of Agriculture and Forestry in the University of Liberia
(UL) is the sole institution for graduate training in agricultural sciences,
while its Agricultural Extension Training Center (AETC) provides facilities
for the training of extension and other field staff. Additionally, the Booker
Washington Institute offers a four-year vocational training program in agricul-
ture. Agricultural research activities in Liberia, primarily carried out
at the Central Agricultural Experiment Station at Suakoko, suffer from a
lack of direction and coordination besides having poor physical facilities
(Annex 3). Besides Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministries of Action for
Development and Progress and Local Government, Rural Development and Urban
Reconstruction - are involved in rural development in Liberia, but their
impact has been minimal.



-6-
III. PROJECT AREA
3.01      General.  The project area consists of the Gbarnga, Kokoya and
Sanoyie districts in the Bong County 1/, and has a total area of 650,000 ha
and a population of about 140,000 of which 100,000 (19,000 farm families) are
engaged in farming. The people primarily belong to the Kpelle Tribe and most
of them are small farmers cultivating between 1 and 3 ha with average per
capita income of about US$68 per annum (see Annex 2 and para 7.07).
3.02      Topography, Hydrology and Climate.  Eighty percent of the area
consists of dissected rolling uplands, 12% are swamps (poorly drained valley
bottom), and the rest are isolated high hills or mountains. The climate is
tropical with a mean annual rainfall ranging from 1,600 mm in the central
parts to 2,200 mm in north and south. Most of the upland consists of deep
ferralitic soils with a high laterite gravel content and low fertility.
The valley bottom soils have textures varying, from loamy sand/sandy clay to
sandy clay loams and iron-toxicity in soils is a major problem.
3.03      General Infrastructure.  Social and related services are limited.
Roads are poorly maintained. The few small airstrips in the area are used by
GOL and private light aricraft only. Telecommunications between the area and
other parts of Liberia are limited. Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC)
runs the power station in Gbarnga (rated capacity of 2,280 kw) which supplies
the town and neighborhoods. There are 45 elementary schools (32 in the
Gbarnga district, 6 in the Kokoya district and 7 in the Sanoyie district),
14 junior high schools and 1 college for graduate studies. Under the Bank's
Second Education Project 12 community schools will be constructed in the
county. Medical services are limited to the Phebe Hospital and a few govern-
ment clinics (details in Annex 1).
Institutions
3.04      As in other counties of Liberia, two types of institutions - the
traditional and the modern public sector - dominate local administration.
There are six chiefdoms divided into 28 clans (based upon traditional lineage
categories), the clans in turn being divided into towns (geographic considera-
tion) and towns into quarters. There are four development councils (consisting
of paramount and clan chiefs and other leading persons) which have advisory
functions to GOL (through county superintendents) for development activities
and represent a formal link between Government and traditional institutions.
3.05      Land tenure arrangements form another important traditional institu-
tional link. Although the state is officially the ultimate owner of all land,
individual family right of usufruct is ruled by traditional laws and customs
and traditional tribal control in their respective areas is honored. The
1/   Administratively, Liberia has nine counties and five territories.



-7-
system provides satisfactory tenurial arrangements at this stage of develop-
ment. However, an individual can secure registered title to his land under
GOL laws (the Aborigines law, Public Land law No. 30 and Registered Land law).
The procedures are complicated by bureaucratic intricacies, and at present
only large, well-to-do farmers and Monrovia-based elite have been registering
land (Annex 2, para 13).
3.06      Important communal labor groups known as KIU are formed among people
of different households (to ease the labor burden by working with friends and
neighbors). Cooperative saving societies, sometimes referred to as SUSU,
formed by pooling resources, also exist. Thus, an environment of traditional
cooperative action is present and this might be exploited to establish modern
service cooperatives (Annex 2, para 12).
3.07      Approximately 10% of the project area is under cultivation of
which 70% is tree crops (mostly rubber) and 30% annual crops (mostly rice
and cassava). Distribution is rather uneven with only one-third of the
cultivated land being shared among 75% of the households (smallholders)
having average farm sizes of about 2 ha. However, land scarcity does not
limit agricultural production; rather, expansion and improvement on small
farms have been inhibited by lack of support services and infrastructure.
Upland rice, occupying nearly 55% of the smallholder's cultivated area,
is the predominant subsistence crop. Upland farming, under a system of
extensive shifting cultivation, consists of rice intercropped with vegetables
and minor cereals in the first year, followed by root crops and some sugarcane
in the second year; thereafter the land is left fallow for five to ten years.
Swamp rice is grown by about 10% of the farmers, cassava by 70%, corn by 25%,
sugarcane by 22%, cocoa by 29% and coffee by 14%. Coffee and cocoa are the
most important long-term cash crops. Farm management and husbandry standards
are generally inadequate, land and labor are the primary inputs, while use of
fertilizers, improved seeds (local varieties are morphologically uneven and of
low genetic potential), pesticides, etc. is rare. Maintenance of tree crops
is substandard and many stands are indistinguishable from secondary forests.
Yields are low and returns to labor unattractive. Details are at Annex 2.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The principal objective of the project would be to increase and
sustain farm incomes by providing farm inputs and strengthening and develop-
ing farm support services to the small farmers (see para 3.01). The project
would be implemented over a five-year investment period 1977/78-1981/82 as
follows:



-8-
Farm and Crop Development
Provide farm inputs, including fertilizers, insecticides,
seeds and seedlings, farm equipment (power tillers, chain
saws, hand winches, threshers, etc.) for cash or credit
to increase production of 5,750 ha of upland rice, 3,000
ha of cocoa, 1,500 ha of coffee and 2,050 ha of swamp
rice; of which 300 ha will be for double cropping), improve
on-farm processing of coffee and cocoa; establish seed mul-
tiplication farms and seedling nurseries and seed gardens;
assist farmers in the selection of appropriate soils for
different crops through soil survey and soil analysis; and
assist farmers, where required, in land clearing and land
development.
Development of Physical Infrastructure
Construct about 170 km new farm-to-market roads, recon-
dition/upgrade an existing 130 km and maintain 540 km;
construct offices, stores and houses; expand the training
center and related facilities at Suakoko; and construct
300 village wells.
Institutional Support
Establish the Bong County Project Management Unit (BPMU)
for project implementation; provide technical and adminis-
trative staff for project implementation; establish
cooperatives to facilitate input, credit supply and market-
ing; provide financial assistance to LBDI for establishing
banking facilities at Gbarnga; improve the research facil-
ities and capabilities at the CAES; promote the smallholder
land registration process; assist the Ministry of Health
in the surveillance of schistosomiasis in the project area;
and strengthen the evaluation and monitoring unit set up
under the Lofa County Project for effective project
evaluation.
Other Assistance
Financing consultants for the preparation of an integrated
agricultural development project, tentatively identified in
Grand Gedah county, and for a small survey to explore the
citrus industry; and finance a more detailed study for the
reorganization of MA.



B. Detailed Features
Farm and Crop Development
4.02      Details of phasing and scheduling for crop development are at
Annex 2, para 48. During the first year of the project, development would
be confined to upland and swamp rice; thereafter, the tree crop program
would be incorporated.
4.03      Upland Rice.  Improvements to about 5,750 ha of upland rice produc-
tion (existing yields - 1,000 kg/ha) would be obtained through the use of
improved seeds (primarily LAC 23 with TOS 2581, 2583 used for late plant-
ing) supplied to participating farmers every fifth year, compound fertilizer
(22-40-0), and better farm management practices (details at Annex 2, paras
17-20).
4.04      Cocoa and Coffee.  The project would develop 3,000 ha of cocoa
and 1,500 ha of coffee for smallholders. Development would primarily consist
of new plantings with (a) high yielding materials; (b) appropriate fertilizer
applications, disease and pest control and other husbandry practices; and
(c) improved on-farm and commercial processing. Participating farmers would
be encouraged to group together and develop their coffee/cocoa in single
blocks to facilitate administration of support services including phytosani-
tary measures and quality control (details at Annex 2, paras 21-36).
4.05      Swamp Rice Development.  The project would reclaim 1,650 ha of in-
land swamps and improve about 400 ha of existing swamps. Of this approximately
300 ha would be developed for double cropping of rice where simple inexpensive
(about US$700/ha) earthen barrages and other rudimentary structures would be
constructed for storing run-off from catchment areas for use during the dry
season. Land clearing on virgin swamps would be done manually with the help
of small hand equipment; flood protection and water control would be through
peripheral drains, field bunds and levelling. The project would provide
assistance in preparing simple topographical surveys and soil analyses to
select swamps for development. On-farm measures would focus on proper water
management, timely planting and fertilization, and use of varieties resistant
to iron toxicity (details at Annex 2, paras 37-46).
4.06      Supply of Inputs and Equipment.  The project would supply improved
rice seeds (560 tons), coffee and cocoa seedlings (7 million), fertilizer
(5,000 tons), insecticides, chemicals, shade crops, additionally, power
tillers for double cropped swamps, knapsack sprayers, hand winches, chain
saws, cocoa fermentation boxes, etc., would be provided (see Annex 2, para
45). All farm inputs and farm equipment would be rented or sold at full
commercial cost with provision for credit (see para 6.17 and Annex 4).
Physical Infrastructure
4.07      Feeder Road Development.  Only 55% of the population has direct
access to a road and the estimated road density is about one km for every
18 km2. This is considered inadequate for timely delivery of inputs, services
to farmers and marketing of produce. The project would provide funds for



- 10 -
equipment and personnel for constructing 170 km of new farm-to-market roads,
reconditioning/upgrading about 130 km of existing ones and maintaining
about 540 km (including the newly constructed ones) of farm-to-market roads
in the project area. At the end of project development, road density in the
project area would be about 1 km for every 7 km2. The Ministry of Public
Works would have the primary responsibility for the feeder road program but
would work in close liaison with project management. Construction/upgrading/
maintenance would be done under MPW force account. No detailed engineering
would be done for these roads (details at Annex 5, para 6.06).
4.08      Buildings.  The BPMU offices (15,000 square feet) would be con-
structed at Suakoko and six zonal offices at different locations; eight senior
staff houses, a schistosomiasis laboratory and crop research laboratories
would also be constructed to be staffed and equipped under the project. The
training center, now being built (Credit 306-LBR) at CAES, would be expanded.
The project would provide materials and other assistance to villagers for
construction, on a self-help basis, of 300 village wells for improved water
supply (details in table 2, Annex 8.)
Institutional Development
4.09      Cooperatives.  The project would develop cooperative societies
to supply farm inputs and credit and for marketing farmers' crops. These
would be developed within the traditional KUUS and SUSU systems (details
at Annex 4).
4.10      Rural Savings.  Funds would be provided for LBDI to establish
banking facilities at Gbarnga including office space, staff and equipment. In
addition to customary banking services, LBDI would manage the project's
revolving credit fund (para 6.20). An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that LBDI would establish the Cbarnga facilities by June 30, 1977.
4.11      Health.  Urinary and intestinal schistosomiasis are endemic in
the project area and therefore a rise in the prevalence of this disease,
particularly among those who develop swamp rice is not improbable. Monitoring
of project farmers is therefore important and the project would strengthen the
Shistosomiasis Surveillance Unit established under Credit 577-LBR (para 6.07).
Apart from monitoring the Unit would also undertake limited testing of vector
control techniques. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
findings of the Unit would be reviewed with the Association by December 31,
1978 and that GOL would promptly act to institute the required preventive and
curative measures in the event of a marked increase in the incidence of
schistosomiasis in the project area (details at Annex 6).
4.12      Project Management.  MA's capability to implement the project would
be strengthened through the establishment of the Bong Project Management Unit
(BPMU) which would be located at Suakoko. BPMU would have responsibility for
project implementation including recruitment and training of field staff.
(details at Annex 7). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that MA
would provide the necessary land for establishing project headquarters and
constructing staff houses and other facilities.



- 11 -
4.13      Research.  The project would finance the short term improvement
of research facilities at the Center including continuation of rice research
initiated under 306-LBR, the initiation of cocoa and coffee reseach and
improvement of laboratory facilities for the agronomy and soil section. In
addition, funds have been provided for two consultant-months for an in-depth
analysis of existing research facilities in Liberia, the required organiza-
tional changes, physical improvements, hiring of additional specialist staff,
and training needs for research personnel. The initiation of the recommended
program would be undertaken by the project. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that by December 31, 1977 GOL would prepare for review with the
Association proposals for the reorganization of agricultural research for
Liberia. A condition of disbursement of funds for the research component
(except continuation of rice research initiated under 306-LBR) would be that
this review, including detailed cost estimates is acceptable to the Association.
4.14      Land Tenure.  Tribal land rights provide some tenurial security for
farmers but with the expected increased competition for land due to increased
yield and income potential arising from project measures, there is a need to
promote land registration for smallholders. The project, which would work
closely with the county land registration office, would provide a small survey
team within BPMU to undertake surveys of land being developed by project
farmers, and subsequently would assist farmers to complete the complicated
procedures for obtaining title deeds (Annex 2, para 13 and Annex 7, para
15).
4. 15     The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit established under the Lofa
Project (Credit 577-LBR) would be strengthened with additional staff and
equipment to evaluate the Bong project (see Annex 7, para 17). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that no later than September 30, 1977, GOL shall
amend the terms of reference of the existing unit enabling it to function for
the Bong project.
Other Assistance
4.16      Project Preparation.  Funds have been provided for consultants to
prepare a third rural development project identified by GOL in Grand Gedah
County. Additionally a small survey to identify the potentials of a citrus
fruit canning industry in Liberia would also be undertaken.
4.17      Reorganization of MA.  Consultants were employed under Credit
306-LBR to review the adequacy of the present institutional arrangement for
agricultural development in Liberia and to suggest specific proposals for
reorganizing MA. The consultants' report, which is currently under review by
GOL and the Association, recommends, inter alia, that a semi-autonomous Rural
Development Authority be established to plan and inplement smallholder agricul-
tural development projects. However, the study was not intended to provide
details of the reorganization proposals (e.g., job descriptions, position
classification, manpower planning, cost implications) that would allow imple-
mentation of the proposals. In view of the urgent need for creating an
institutional framework that would ensure continuity of farm support services
during the post-investment phases of this and other projects being developed



- 12 -
within the agricultural sector, funds have been provided under this project
for a follow-up study designed to provide more detailed proposals for reor-
ganization, including specifics of implementation. However, this study will
be contingent upon satisfactory review of the Consultants' report (under
Credit-306-LBR) by the Association.
4.18      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that about 70 consultant
man-months amounting to US$0.35 million would be employed for research
(para 4.13), project preparation (para 4.16), and the MA reorganization (para
4.17) would be appointed with terms of reference, qualifications and condi-
tions of employment satisfactory to the Association.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated at US$20.3 million including US$0.2
million of identifiable indirect taxes but excluding all other taxes and
duties. The foreign exchange component would be US$9.8 million or 48% of
total costs. 1/ Details are at Annex 8 and are summarized below:
1/   Liberia uses US$ as its own currency.



- 13 -
Base Line
Local      Foreign    Total       Costs    Total Costs
-----US$'000                             %
Investment Costs
Buildings, vehicles and
equipment                     325      1,076      1,401         9          7
Farm inputs and hired labor 2,034         1,402      3,436       23         17
Road construction and
upgrading                     297        1,074    1,371         9          7
Village wells                    50          50        100        1          -
Research improvements           130         520        650        4          3
2,836      4,122      6,958        46         34
Support Services to Farmers
Development of banking
institution                    60          90       150         1          1
Local staff                   3,849          -      3,849        26         19
Internationally
recruited staff                -        1,575    1,575         10          8
Vehicles operating costs
general services and
road maintenance            1,077        1,102    2,179        14         10
4,986       2,767    7,753         51         38
Technical Assistance
Consultants for feasibility
studies                        -           350      350         3          2
Base line costs               7,822        7,239   15,061       100          -
Contingencies
- physical                      391         361        752        -          4
- price                       2,310       2,132     4,442         -         22
Project Cost                 10,523       9,732    20,255         -        100
Percentage                       52          48        100
5.02      Estimates are based on prices obtained during appraisal, updated
where necessary to reflect baseline costs expected at the end of 1976, and
exclude all identifiable import duties on goods imported directly for the
project. The present Government policy will exempt these goods from taxes
and duties. Physical contingencies comprise 5% of baseline costs, and price
contingencies allow for compounded cost increases of: (a) vehicles, equipment
and farm inputs of 9% in 1977, 8% per annum 1978 to 1979 and 7% 1980 to 1981;
(b) buildings, construction materials for roads and village wells of 13% in
1977, 12% per annum in 1978 to 1979 and 10% per annum in 1980 to 1981; (c)
salaries, consultants, technical assistance and local costs of 7% from 1977
onwards.  Analysis of baseline costs show 42% for production related invest-
ments and 58% for GovernLment support services and technical assistance. Total
contingencieC. are equivalent to 25% of total costs.



- 14 -
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      IDA would contribute US$7.0 million, USAID US$6.0 million and
GOL US$7.3 million. The IDA credit of US$7.0 million (34% of total project
costs) would finance US$5.4 million (55% of the total foreign exchange costs
of US$9.8 million) and US$1.6 million (15%) of local costs. The USAID loan
would finance US$4.4 million (45% of foreign exchange) and US$1.6 million
(15%) of local costs. The IDA credit would be on standard terms and the
USAID loan would be for 40 years including 10 years grace, repayable in 30
equal annual installments with interest at 2% during the grace period and 3%
thereafter. It is recommended that a condition of credit effectiveness would
be that the USAID loan of US$6.0 million had been formally ratified by the
Governments of USA and Liberia. The proposed financing plan is detailed in
Annex 8, Table 11, and summarized as follows:



- 15 -
Summary of Proposed Financing
Total         IDA           USAID          GOL
-US-$- 000
Investment Costs
Buildings                          542         433              -           108
Vehicles and Equipment             859         773               -            86
Farm inputs and hired labor    3,436            -            2,082        1,354
Road construction and upgradingl,371            -            1,028          343
Village wells                      100          70               -            30
Research improvements              650         585              -            65
6,958      1,862            3,110        1,986
Government Support Services
to Farmers
Development of banking
institutions                      150         105              -            45
Local staff                      3,849         669             378        2,802
Internationall recruited staff 1,575         1,575              -            -
Vehicles operating costs,
general services and road
maintenance                     2,179         866             706          607
7,753      3,215            1,084        3,454
Technical Assistance
Consultants for feasibility
studies                           350         350              -            -
Base line Costs                 15,061       5,427           4,194        5,440
Contingencies:
Physical            752         270             209          273
Price             4,442       1,308           1,545        1,589
Project Costs                   20,255       7,005           5,948        7,302
Percentage                         100          34               30          36
5.04       In order to expedite initial implementation of the project, an ad-
vance of up to US$200,000 has been granted under the Project Preparation Facil-
ity. The advance would finance expenditure required prior to effectiveness of
the proposed credit in connection with project start-up activities, e.g. office
buildings, recruitment of key expatriate staff and vehicles. In accordance
with normal terms and conditions of advances granted under the Facility, the
advance and the service charge thereon will be fully repaid to IDA through reim-
bursement under the proposed credit as soon as it becomes effective.
C. Procurement
5.05      Procurement of vehicles, equipment for offices, research laboratories
and workshops, and such other items through contracts of more than US$50,000
would be through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines; contracts of less than US$50,000 but more than US$5,000 would be



- 16 -
through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association;
items costing less than US$5,000 would be procured in accordance with local
customery procedures satisfactory to the Association. Such procurements are
estimated at a value of US$1.5 million. Domestically manufactured goods would
be allowed a 15% preference when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign
manufacturers. Contracts for construction of buildings, houses and purchase
of construction materials, etc. (US$0.7 million), would not be attractive to
foreign contractors, and contracts would be awarded on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
International staff (US$1.6 million) would be recruited and consultants for
project preparation and studies (US$0.4 million) would be retained on terms
and conditions and with qualifications acceptable to the Association. Local
staff salaries (US$0.7 million), vehicle operating and general services costs
(US$0.9 million), assistance for LBDI branch development (US$0.1 million)
would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. USAID financed goods and ser-
vices covering road building equipment, materials and labor, farm inputs,
local staff salaries, vehicle operating and general services costs estimated
to have a value of US$4.2 million would be procured in accordance with USAID
procedures. The farm inputs and equipment to be procured under these pro-
cedures would be competitive with international prices.
D. Disbursement
5.06      The IDA credit of US$7.0 million would be disbursed over five years
(see Annex 8, Table 13), to cover 34% of total project costs against the
following categories:
Category 1:  100% of the CIF costs of directly-imported vehicles and equipment
(other than farm equipment and road building vehicles and plant),
or 90% of the total cost if locally procured, totaling US$0.8
million;
Category 2:  80% of the cost of the buildings and furnishings, totaling US$0.4
million;
Category 3:  100% of foreign expenditure for internationally recruited staff,
consultants, feasibility studies and overseas training of local
staff totaling US$2.15 million;
Category 4:  70% of expenditures for vehicles operating costs, general
services, materials for village wells, local costs of LBDI
branch, totaling US$1.1 million;
Category 5:  20% of expenditures for local staff (excluding those fi-
nanced by USAID), totaling US$0.6 million;
Category 6:  100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures
for improving the CAES research facilities at Suakoko totaling
US$0.45 million;
Category 7:  an unallocated amount of US$1.5 million.



- 17 -
5.07      Disbursement would be fully documented for Categories 1, 2, 3,
and 6 md certified records of expenditures for Categories 4 and 5. For
disbursements made against certified records of expenditures, documenta-
tion would be retained by BPMU for review by the Association/USAID super-
vision missions. Any surplus funds at completion of the project would be
cancelled.
E. Budgets, Funding Procedures, and Accounting Records
5.08      BPMU would prepare its own annual budget and in consultation with
the Feeder Road, Schistosomiasis and Monitoring Units prepare the annual budgets
of these units. LBDI would prepare the annual budget of the LBDI branch at
Gbarnga. All budgets, after approval by the Project Steering Committee, would
be incorporated in the annual estimates of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Public Health, Public Works, and LBDI. Budgets would be based on the cost
estimates in this report but would be amended as required to reflect current
costs and policy changes. BPMU would submit quarterly cash flow statements to
the Project Steering Committee for approval in accordance with these budgets.
5.09      Funding Procedures.  GOL has established a project bank account with
a commercial bank with an initial deposit of US$150,000. The account would be
replenished with funds from the Ministry of Finance quarterly in advance to
finance forecast local expenditures. Overdraft facilities or any other interim
measures would be arranged by GOL to cover any shortfall in GOL contribution
to local costs for that quarter (para 5.08). Within the approved budgetary
allocations BPMU would be given full authority to operate the project bank
account. Both IDA and USAID reimbursement of local expenditures would be made
directly to the Ministry of Finance. Reimbursement applications by the Minis-
tries of Public Works and Health and LBDI would be channelled through BPMU.
Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations.
5.10      Accounts and Audits.  BPMU would maintain appropriate accounts in
accordance with acceptable accounting practices to reflect the operations and
financial position of the project and to provide evaluation data. The ac-
counts of BPMU would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Association. Audited accounts, balance sheets and operating statements
would be submitted to the Association within four months of the end of the
financial year. USAID would arrange for the annual audit of the revolving
credit fund, Feeder Road Unit and the Schistosomiasis Unit. A copy of the
audit reports would be furnished to the Association.
5.11      Cooperatives Records.  GOL would ensure that farmer cooperatives,
when operational, would maintain adequate credit and accounting records for
each farmer. These would be available for review by the Association/USAID
supervision missions and audited annually by the Registrar of Cooperatives.
As trustee of the revolving credit fund (para 6.23), LBDI would maintain
separate accounts and records of the fund, in accordance with an agreement to



- 18 -
be drawn up between LBDI and GOL. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the requirements set out in paras 5.10 and 5.11 would be estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Association.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutions
6.01      Project implementation would require farm support services to
be properly organized to ensure full cooperation and coordination within
and between GOL agencies; adequate support to project staff without undue
interference from bureaucratic procedures. As with the ongoing Lofa County
Project, a special administrative entity, the Bong Project Management Unit
(BPMU), would be created within MA (headquartered at Suakoko) with sole
responsibility for implementing the project (see para 6.03). BPMU would be
responsible to the Ministry of Agriculture through the Project Steering
Committee (see para 6.02). BPMU, although a Government agency, would be
structured and authorized to function as a semi-autonomous entity, with its
own management, budget and financial control. Integration of the project
into the institutional system would be achieved through the Project Steering
Committee at the national level, and the Project Consultative Committee at
the county level. To avoid duplication of effort and to follow a consistent
and concerted aproach to crop development, BPMU would have, except for the
"AGRIMECO" cleared areas at Kpartawee, sole responsibility for rice, coffee
and cocoa extension services in the Project area with effect from September
30, 1977. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
6.02      The Proiect Steering Committee (PSC) would, inter alia, determine
project policy, exercise budgetary and financial control, approve the appoint-
ment of professional staff, determine conditions of service, and ensure co-
operation and coordination between other GOL departments. The PSC established
for the Lofa County Project 1/ would also be responsible for Bong, and its
composition has therefore been amended to include the Project Manager BPMU as
an Executive Secretary.
6.03      The Bong Project Management Unit would take over those activities
which cannot be effectively performed by existing institutions. These would
include: (a) agricultural extension services; (b) assistance to farmers
land clearing, swamp development, and management; (c) input supply and
credit administration; (d) development of cooperatives and related rural
institutions; (e) training of professional and technical staff and farmers.
BPMU would in addition liaise with the Ministry of Public Works for farm-
1/   It consists of the Ministers of Agriculture (chairman), Finance,
Planning, Local Government and Rural Development; the Project Manager
of LPMU acts as executive secretary.



- 19 -
to-market road construction and maintenance; LPMC for input importation
and produce marketing; with LBDI for credit administration; with CAES for
field experimentation and seed multiplication; with the county land commis-
sioner for smallholder land registration; with CAES, AETC and LIPA for staff
training; and with the Ministry of Health for schistosomiasis surveillance.
The BPMU with terms of reference and powers satisfactory to the Association
has been established.
6.04      BPMU would be headed by a project manager and would comprise five
divisions: administration and personnel, agricultural services, cooperative
and credit services, training, and finance. The Agricultural Services Divi-
sion would have three sections: extension and experimentation (responsible
for technical advice on tree and field crop production, seed multiplication,
seedling production, and field experimentation), land development (land
clearing, farm equipment, hire service, swamp development, irrigation and
water control), and survey and registration (topographic and soil surveys,
land use planning, demarcation and measurement of farms, and assistance in
land registration). The Cooperative and Credit Services Division would
organize the delivery system for farm inputs and credit and would have three
sections: cooperatives (development, guidance, and strengthening of coopera
tives), credit (distribution and recovery of smallholder credit) and commer-
cial services (procurement and distribution of inputs and assistance in crop
marketing).
6.05      The Project Consultative Committee (PCC) would be established
at Suakoko to promote cooperation with relevant agencies in the project area,
and support for and participation in the project by local people. The Commit-
tee would be chaired by the County Superintendent and would include the
paramount chiefs of the six chiefdoms; the assistant county superintendent,
local representatives of the Ministries of Education, Health, Public Works,
Action for Development and Progress, and Land and Mines; chairmen of the
cooperatives (when they are organized); and Project Manager and Deputy Manager
of BEMU. As far as practical, informal links would be established with
development councils (para 3.04) to ensure grassroot support for project
activities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the PCC would be
established not later than September 30, 1977.
6.06      The Ministry of Public Works would be responsible for constructing,
reconditioning and maintaining farm-to-market roads in the project area.
However, considering MPW's present financial and operational deficiencies, the
program would be implemented through a Feeder Road Unit to be formed by
September 30, 1977 (Details at Annex 5, Para 8). The unit would be in-
dependently financed (equipment and personnel) and managed, and would operate
only within the project area in support of project activities. Administra-
tively, the unit would be responsible to the MPW resident engineer for Bong
County; but annual budgets and operating plans would be developed jointly with
BPMU. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



- 20 -
6.07      The Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit established under Credit
577-LBR would be strengthened with additional staff, vehicles, and laboratory
facilities to service the Bong project. The unit would be under the adminis-
trative control of the Liberian Institute for Biomedical Research but the
work program, budgeting and recruitment would be in consultation with BPMU.
An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
6.08      The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit provided under Credit 577-LBR
would be expanded to include the Bong County Project. The unit would be
responsible to the Ministry of Agriculture through PSC, but would work close-
ly with the Lofa County and Bong County PMUs as well as with the Economic
Planning and Evaluation Division of the MA.
B. Staffing
6.09      Because of the complexities inherent in a smallholder development
project, successful implementation requires project staff with high levels of
managerial efficiency, technical competence and innovation. Where possible
BPMU positions would be filled by qualified and experienced Liberians, but a
number of the senior key positions may need to be filled through international
recruitment. The project would provide funds for international recruitment of
a Project Manager, Managers of Finance, Agricultural Services, Training, and
Cooperative/Credit Services Divisions, a Swamp Development Officer and a Land
Use Planning Officer. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these
positions and the Manager of Administration would be filled by persons having
experience, qualifications and terms and conditions of service satisfactory to
the Association, and that the deputies to these positions will be filled with
persons with adequate qualifications. To avoid delays in project implementa-
tion GOL has appointed the Project Manager and Manager of the Finance Division;
it was further agreed that appointment of the Agricultural Services Manager
would be a condition of effectiveness.
C. Training
6.10      Liberia does not have a pool of trained manpower, particularly at
intermediate and lower technical staff levels, nor is it able to turn out
trained personnel for immediate project needs. Substantial staff training
facilities are provided under the Lofa Project, but it is too early for
the Bong Project to draw staff from this source. The proposed project would
provide training facilities for all extension, cooperative and credit field
staff recruited by BPMU. In view of the general lack of coffee and cocoa
expertise in Liberia, selected Liberian staff would be sent abroad for short
specialized training. Additionally, senior Liberian technical and managerial
staff would be trained in project management and rural development administra-
tion.



- 21 -
6.11      The Manager of the Training Division would be responsible for
develop ng and implementing the training program. This would consist of
short formal courses interspersed with practical field training. Technical
training for field staff would be provided primarily at the CAES, where a
training center financed under 306-LBR is under construction, and close
cooperation would be maintained with AETC and WARDA. After initial training,
staff would undergo short refresher training at suitable intervals. M4anage-
ment training would be provided by the staff of the Liberian Institute for
Public Administration. Furthermore, all expatriate staff would have re-
sponsibility for training their Liberian counterparts and other senior staff
working with them.
6.12      The project would organize training for farm families on village
demonstration farms, at farmer training centers attached to the six zonal
offices and project headquarters, and through farm visits and village/group
discussion using audio-visual aids.
D. Farm Inputs - Procurement and Distribution
6.13      The input supply and marketing section of BPMU's cooperative and
credit services division would have primary responsibility for organizing
the farm input delivery system. This would involve village group/coops
who would be responsible for estimating requirements and distribution to
individual farmers; the chiefdom cooperatives would collate village groups/
coops requirements, arrange delivery from LPMC, and provide temporary
storage prior to distribution. LPMC would be responsible for importation,
warehousing at Port (and, if necessary, at Suakoko or Gbarnga) and trans-
portation to the chiefdom cooperatives storage facilities. However, until
the chiefdom and village cooperatives are formed, BPMU would arrange at cost
to the farmers for all input handling and delivery, with LPMC providing trans-
portation to BPMU storage facilities (see Annex 4, paras 42-46).
6.14      Farm equipment, eg., pedal threshers, power tillers, chain saws,
knapsack sprayers, tools, etc., would be procured locally or imported directly
from overseas manufacturers by BPMU. Threshers would be sold at full cost
to individuals and groups, while a hiring service for tillers, sprayers,
chain saws, hand winches, etc., would be operated by BPMU's land development
section (see Annex 2, paras 12 (b), 45 and Annex 4, para 48).
6.15      Improved varieties of rice seeds and coffee and cocoa seedlings,
fertilizers, pesticides, etc., would be distributed to farmers by BPIU.
Breeder seed for rice would be obtained from CAES, Suakoko and multiplied
by selected farmers and on project seed multiplication farms. Hybrid varieties
of coffee and cocoa seeds would be raised on project nurseries and by the
participating farmers themselves under the supervision of the BPMU (Annex 3,
paras 9-11).



- 22 -
6.16      Farmers would pay the full delivered cost for all inputs supplied.
LPMC would be entitled to 5% of the landed Gbarnga value of inputs they import
(e.g., fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, chemicals, etc.) plus transport costs
for deliveries to BPMU/cooperative storage in the project area. The chiefdom
cooperatives would receive 5% commission calculated on the landed cost at
Gbarnga (ex-LPNC) plus local transport costs for delivery to farmers
(Annex 4, para 47).
E. Credit Arrangements
6.17      Farm inputs and equipment, including rentals, would be available
on credit, and cash loans would be available for hired labor. Medium-term
credit of US$760 and US$680 per ha of cocoa and coffee respectively would be
available to cover the costs of fertilizer, seedlings, plantain suckers, hand
tools, land development service, spraying and processing equipment and
US$1,030 and US$750 per ha of double and single cropped swamp rice respec-
tively to cover the cost of hired labor for land development, construction of
water control/storage structures and purchase of pedal threshers. Seasonal
credit for upland and swamp rice development would cover the costs of rice
seeds, fertilizer, spraying services, power tiller service (for double cropped
swamps only), while seasonal credit for coffee and cocoa would cover costs of
fertilizer, chemicals and replacement of equipment.
6.18      Cocoa and coffee development loans would be disbursed over a period
of six and four years respectively, while most of the swamp development loans
and cash loans would be disbursed over two to three years. Development loans
would bear an annual interest rate of 10%, while 10% interest would be charged
on all seasonal loans. Coffee and cocoa development loans would be for twelve
years and for swamp rice eight years including a four-year and a two-year
grace period respectively during which interest would be capitalized. All
seasonal loans would be repayable at harvest. Loan terms, particularly the
finance charges, have been determined on the basis of the debt servicing
capacity, the recovery of credit operation costs and in consideration of the
environmental realities of smallholder credit operations in Liberia. 1/
Nevertheless, the lending terms would be subject to review by BBMU as the
project progresses and any amendments would be subject to prior approval by
the Association.
6.19      As Bong County does not have any local credit institutions BPMU
cooperative services division would be responsible for the project credit
program, e.g., estimation of farmer/village group credit needs, distribution
and repayment, documentation, etc. However, these functions would ultimately
be taken over by cooperatives. Individual loan and credit applications would
be screened by a credit advisory committee (to be established for each village
group or clan) consisting of village/clan chief, and BPMU local cooperative
staff. Individual credit requests would be scrutinized by village groups/
1/   See Annex 7, para 12 of Report 744a-LBR.



- 23 -
coops, or by one of the chiefdom cooperatives; in the absence of the latter,
by BPMU's respective zonal offices, and then passed on to BPMU. (Annex 4,
paras 35-39).
6.20      A project revolving credit fund would be established under an agree-
ment between LBDI and GOL, the former acting as administrator of the fund. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that the fund would be established by
June 30, 1977 in accordance with a trust agreement satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. All credit repayments including interest would be credited to the fund.
The fund would charge farmer cooperatives (or BPMU) 7% per annum on loans
onlent to farmers at 10%. LBDI would receive 2% of the disbursed funds as
commission for administering the fund. At the end of project development in
1982 the fund would have an estimated US$570,000, and by 1995 development
loans amounting to US$2.5 million would have been repaid and would be avail-
able for further agricultural development as determined by the trust agreement.
(See Annex 4, Table 1.) An assurance was obtained at negotiations that GOL
would ensure that the fund's capital would be used exclusively for the purpose
of smallholder credit.
6.21      Until the chiefdom cooperatives are functional BPMU would be respons-
ible for loan recovery. Marketing of project crops (particularly cash crops)
through these cooperatives (or through the marketing section of BPMU until the
coops are formed) would be a condition of farmers' acceptance for project
credit. The assistance of the credit advisory committees of the tribal autho-
rities would be sought to recover bad debts. The BPMU cooperative credit
division would have a very important role in developing the credit system as
they would be responsible for (a) training and counseling project farmers in
proper use of credit; and (b) supervising, advising and providing field
support to the farmer cooperatives. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that the manager of BPMU cooperative/credit division would be designated
assistant registrar of cooperatives for the Bong County.  In the Kpartawee
special project area, AGRIMECO cleared uplands are being planted with rice,
coffee, cocoa, oil palm and rubber by smallholders with inputs and credit
provided by MA and LFMC. To avoid conflict with the proposed project credit
arrangements, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that all farm inputs
and credit provided in Bong County by GOL or its agencies would be provided on
the same terms as those provided by BPMU after September 30, 1977 (Details at
Annex 4).
F. Post-Project Administration
6.22      The creation of short-duration agencies such as BPMU raises the
question of continuity when external finance and management cease. The risks
should be minimized by: (a) ensuring that GOL would take action to make MA
more effective in planning and implementing rural development projects and
to take over field extension services at the end of the project period (para
4.17); (b) making arrangements for interagency coordination in rural develop-
ment (para 6.02); (c) promoting local capabilities for some support services



- 24 -
to small farmers, e.g., commercial services and credit facilities to be pro-
vided by farmer cooperatives, with appropriate support from LPMC and LBDI
(para 6.13); (d) improving other rural development agencies, e.g., MPW and
MH (para 6.06 and 6.07). Further, in order to foster creation of permanent
institutions for agricultural credit, assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that Government would: (i) not later than June 30, 1977 prepare, for
consultation with the Association, a proposal for the establishment of an
agricultural credit system in Liberia; and (ii) within six months thereafter,
prepare, for consultation with the Association, a detailed plan for the
implementation of such proposal. In reviewing the reorganization of MA (para
4.17) the Association and GOL would pay particular attention to the post
development phases of this and other projects being developed within the
agricultural sector, to ensure the continued servicing of participating
farmers.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
A. Production
7.01      Estimates of incremental production are difficult to make as:
information on past yields is scanty; despite ecological suitability for
crops, substantial yield variations within the project area are inevitable;
and the rates and patterns of adoption of the new input package cannot be
precisely predicted. Nevertheless, data from surveys, observations and
experiments can be analyzed to provide reasonable estimates of project
impact on crop production, and a summary of expected incremental produc-
tion at full development is given below. For details see Annex 2.
Area         Average       Incremental
Crop                     Developed      Yields        Production
(ha)         tons/ha          tons
Upland rice (seed only)        4,250            1.3           1,275
Upland rice (+ fertilizer)    1,500             1.8           1,200
Swamp rice (rainfed)           1,750            3.0           4,690
Swamp rice (irrigated)           300            5.3           1,575
Coffee                         1,500            1.0           1,500
Cocoa                          3,000            1.0          3,000
B. Markets, Marketing and Prices
Market Prospects
7.02      Rice. Total annual Liberian consumption is estimated at between
150,000 and 160,000 metric tons including annual imports of about 40,000
tons (with considerable year-to-year variations); however, since 1973,



- 25 -
imports have tended to decrease and in 1975/76 were 30,000 metric tons. Future
growth a rice production in Liberia is likely to be higher than in the past
due to the current GOL emphasis on national self sufficiency. However, consump-
tion is expected to increase rapidly and the domestic market would have no
difficulty in absorbing the project-induced rice pro-
duction.
7.03      Coffee.  Liberia is not a major coffee producer and exports of 83,000
bags (1968-75 average) are less than 0.2% of world production. However, ex-
ports exceed domestic production because of smuggling from neighboring coun-
tries (estimated to be 20-25% of total exports) 1/. Liberia's present coffee
production and exports are well below the minimum quota of 100,000 bags
(approximately 6,000 tons) established under the 1976 international coffee
agreement. The incremental output from the project, although substantial in
terms of existing domestic production, would be insignificant in terms of
total world production, and would have no impact on world prices. 2/ However,
during negotiations, the borrower was advised to carefully analyze the market
constraints before proceeding with further expansion of coffee.
7.04      Cocoa.  Liberia is not a member of the International Cocoa Organi-
zation and has no quota restrictions. 3/ Its present exports are less than
0.2% of world production and project output should be marketed without dif-
ficulty; with proper quality improvement demand may increase.
7.05      Marketing.  The existing facilities for transport and storage would
have to be extended to cope with the increased production but no major changes
in the institutional structure would be required. Certain policy requirements
initiated under credit 577-LBR (e.g., review of LPMC pricing policies for
export crops, operation of a price support scheme for paddy and/or rice, appro-
priate price differentials between cherry and clean coffee, quality improve-
ments and price structures to reflect quality differences) should remove other
marketing constraints. However, some steps would be taken to improve marketing
practices and infrastructure in the project area including: creation of
collection points where farmers would be paid full LPMC prices; introduction
of more efficient farm-to-market transport; better market information promotion
of cooperatives; and greater involvement of LPMC by establishing an office at
Gbarnga (Annex 4, para 49-59).
1/   See para 34 Report No. 426a-LBR; Liberia - A Basic Economic Report,
Vol. iv, Agriculture, May 1, 1975.
2/   International coffee organization has been informed and they have
no objection to the proposed coffee development.
3/   International Cocoa Organization has been consulted and no objection
was raised, however, it expressed the hope that Liberia would consider
joining the organization.



- 26 -
Prices
7.06      Heavy frost in Brazil has destroyed most of its 1976/77 crop
and consequently world coffee prices are at a record high of US$2,500 per
metric ton (spot New York). According to Bank forecasts after a slight
decline in 1977, prices in current terms would continue to rise and reach
about US$3,150 per metric ton by 1985. However, in constant 1976 dollars
prices will continue to decline, and projected 1985 prices in 1976 dollars
would be about 15% lower than the 1969-72 average. The world market
prices for cocoa (currently about US$2,100 per metric ton, spot New York)
will continue to decline (until 1980) in current as well as in constant
1976 prices. The projected 1985 prices (constant 1976 dollars) would
be about 15% lower than the 1969-72 average. The current world market
price for clean rice (FOB Bangkok) is about US$260 per metric ton. In
current as well as constant 1976 dollars, world market price is expected
to increase to US$680 and US$360 respectively per metric ton. Economic
and financial farmgate prices for project crops have been estimated on
the basis of Bank forecast prices. In constant 1976 terms the prices
are as follows: 1/
Economic             Financial
1980      1985       1980       1985
-----     US$/Metric ton----------
Cocoa (beans)           991        814        744        613
Coffee (clean)        1,548      1,260      1,179        956
Paddy                   237        239        248       253
C. Farmer Benefits
7.07      Most of the 19,000 farm families in the project area are in the
target group (see paras 2.01 and 3.07) and it is estimated that approximately
9,000 of them would participate in the project and adopt the technology (see
Annex 2, para 48). Since farm sizes, crop combination and land ownership
patterns are diverse, development of a typical farm model tends to be
largely theoretical. Crop budgets showing net returns per ha and per manday
resulting from project-induced technology provide a more meaningful indica-
tion of benefits accruing from the proposed innovations and are summarized
below 2/. Assuming that an average farm presently produces about 1 ha of
1/   Paddy prices represent import substitution value; cocoa and coffee are
equivalent to export value (details at Annex 9, Tables 2, 4, 6).
2/   Expressed at 1985 prices in constant 1976 terms; net return at full
development after debt servicing.



- 27 -
upland rice, 0.25 ha of coffee and/or cocoa and 0.5 ha of other crops mainly
cassava, the average per farm income is about US$360 (equivalent to US$68 per
capita).   Net average family income at full development for a project farmer,
assuming a participant on average will grow 1 ha of swamp rice together with
some upland rice or improved upland rice together with 0.75 ha of coffee and
cocoa, would be about US$850 (equivalent to US$160 per capita which would
still be quite low compared to the present national per capita income of about
US$410). Depending on the crop combination individual farmers would adopt, it
is therefore estimated that the average farm income for the participating
families would be at least twice as high as their present income. Apart from
the direct benefits, indirect benefits from infrastructural and institutional
improvements would accrue to all project area farmers.
Traditional            Project          Increment
$/ha   $/manday      $/ha  $/manday   $/ha   $/manday
Cocoa                      153        4.1        468     4.8       315      0.7
Coffee                     191        3.8        855     4.2       664      0.4
Rainfed & Swamp            350        1.5        546     2.1       196      0.6
Irrigated Swamp             -          -         733     1.9        -        -
Improved Upland            235        1.7        298     2.1        63      0.4
Advanced Upland            235        1.7        386     1.9       151      0.2
D. Cost Recovery
7.08      Financial implications of the project to GOL are summarized in
Annex 8, Table 12. The net annual average cost to GOL during Years 1 to 5
(before debt servicing) would be US$1.3 million; Year 6-10 US$0.6 million;
Years 11-40 US$0.4 million. However, all input costs would be recovered
from the farmers and the revolving credit fund's capital would be available
for further credit operation (para 6.20). As in other rural development
projects, the project's direct contribution to Government revenue is minimal
because there are no Government taxes or cesses that can be applied; the
present system of land taxation is completely inelastic to farm incomes;
and project beneficiaries cannot be charged for technical services. However,
there are likely to be substantial but unquantifiable increases in indirect
revenues to GOL from indirect taxes (sales tax, excise duties) resulting from
increased expenditure on imported and locally produced goods. LP4C, through
increased market turnover should increase its revenues for coffee and cocoa by
about 8% of FOB value annually; and additionally LPMC would receive a 7% levy
on project generated export crops for its agricultural development fund.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
8.01      Direct benefits from the project would at full maturity be incre-
mental production of 8,740 tons of paddy rice, 3,000 tons of cocoa and 1,500
tons of clean coffee annually. Project rice production would be consumed



- 28 -
internally while coffee and cocoa would be exported. The net foreign ex-
change earnings/savings arising from increased exports and rice import
substitution is estimated at US$6.7 million from Year 13 onwards. 1/ The
project would cause substantial mobilization of labor in the project area,
particularly the seasonally unemployed. Apart from this, employment
opportunities would also be generated in the transportation, construction,
rural industries, commerce and services sectors.
8.02      The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) based on the quanti-
fiable part of incremental costs and incremental benefits is estimated at
21%. The principal assumptions used are at Annex 10. The project would
have a number of important secondary benefits, largely unquantifiable. The
County population would benefit from the general improvement in the infra-
structure promoted by the project, e.g., road improvements, banking facil-
ities, health services, improvement in drinking water supply, better mar-
keting infrastructure, etc. Development of the cooperatives would lead to
the creation of rural capabilities for providing farm support services. The
project would strengthen the technical managerial capabilities of the MA, and
to some extent of the MPW and MH resulting in improved planning and implemen-
tation of future rural development projects.
8.03      Risks and Sensitivity.  Smallholder agricultural development proj-
ects are inherently and conceptually complex and in the absence of adequate
relevant experience in Liberia full attainment of project benefits might con-
ceivably be jeopardized by a number of risks and uncertainties. Implemen-
tation problems could arise due to inadequate coordination and cooperation
within and between GOL agencies. However, GOL has a considerable commitment
to the development of smallholder agriculture and this has been confirmed
to a certain extent by the seriousness with which MA has established the
Lofa project organization, and related staff recruitment, procurement and
project funding (see para 1.02). Likewise, GOL has agreed to proceed with
immediate recruitment of key staff and the civil works necessary for the
first year (see para 5.05), thus lessening the likelihood of serious delays.
Risks due to technical weaknesses have been minimized since the packages
are simple and have already been successfully tested in Liberia; similar
technical improvements have also been successfully introduced in Sierra
Leone (Credit 323-SL), which has ecological and social similarities. Pro-
ject yield estimates and adoption rates have taken full account of these
experiences and production assumptions are not over-optimistic.
8.04      Sensitivity tests have been used to analyze the potential impact
of some of the above factors, e.g., delay in project implementation; de-
creased project benefits due to lower than forecasted crop yields, adoption
rates and prices; increased project costs; and a project life expectancy
shorter than estimated. Details are at Annex 10, Table 2, where it is
shown that the project has an attractive Economic Rate of Return even under
less than optimal circumstances. However, ERR is quite sensitive to delays
in implementation.
1/   Based on 1988 FOB/CIF values in 1976 constant terms.



- 29 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) After June 30, 1977 MA would not undertake any new large-
scale mechanized land-clearing activities for tree crop
development in the project area until the proceeds of the
credit have been fully employed (Para 2.12).
(b) LBDI would establish banking facilities at Gbarnga by
June 30, 1977 (para 4.10);
(c) GOL would review with the Association by December 31, 1978
the findings of the schistosomiasis monitoring unit and
promptly act to institute the required preventative and
curative measures in the event of a marked increase in the
incidence of schistosomiasis in the project area (para 4.11);
(d) MA would provide the necessary land for establishing project
headquarters and constructing staff houses and other facili-
ties (para 4.12);
(e) by December 31, 1977, Government would prepare for review
with the Association proposals, including detailed cost
estimates for the reorganization of agricultural research
for Liberia (para 4.13);
(f) consultants employed to undertake studies relating to
reorganization of MA, research, and a further integrated
agricultural development project would be appointed with
terms of reference, qualifications and conditions of em-
ployment satisfactory to the Association (para 4.18);
(g) procedures satisfactory to the Association would be esta-
blished for quarterly draw-down facilities from project
account, including, interalia, overdraft facilities (para
5. 09);
(h)  annual accounts of BP4U, the Revolving Credit Fund, the
Feeder Road, Schistosomiasis Surveillance and Monitoring
Units would be audited by external auditors acceptable to
the Association and such reports would be submitted to the
Association within four months of the end of the financial
year (paras 5.10 - 5.11);
(i) BPMU would have except for the AGRIMECO cleared areas at
Kapartawee, sole responsibility for rice, coffee and cocoa
extension services in the project area starting no later than
September 30, 1977 (para 6.01);



- 30 -
(j)  the Project Consultative Committee would be established at
Gbarnga by September 30, 1977 (para 6.05);
(k)  by September 30, 1977 GOL would establish a feeder road unit
and would amend the terms of reference for the existing Lofa
Project Schistosomiasis Surveillance and Monitoring and Evalua-
tion units to service the Bong County project; the work program,
budgeting and recruitment of these units would be in consulta-
tion with the BPMU (paras 4.15, 6.06 and 6.07);
(1)  the Project Manager, managers of the Finance, Training,
Agricultural Services, Cooperative and Credit Services and
Administration Divisions, Swamp Development officer the Land
Use Planning officer and a Tree Crop specialist would be
appointed on terms, conditions and qualifications satisfac-
tory to the Association. Deputies to such positions would be
filled by persons with adequate qualifications (para 6.09);
(m)  a revolving credit fund would be established in accordance
with a trust agreement to be entered into between GOL and
LBDI, satisfactory to the Association by June 30, 1977, and
that GOL would ensure that the Fund's capital would be used
exclusively for the purpose of smallholder credit (para 6.20);
(n)  Manager of BPMU Cooperative Credit Services division would be
designated assistant registrar of cooperatives for Bong County
(para 6.21);
(o)  after September 30, 1977, all farm inputs and credit provided
in the project area by GOL or its agencies would be provided
on the same terms as that provided by BPMU (para 6.21); and
(p)  by June 30, 1977, the Government would present to the Bank
for consultation a proposal for establishment of an agricul-
tural credit system in Liberia; within six months thereafter,
the Government would present to the Bank for consultation a
detailed plan for implementation of an appropriate proposal
(para 6.22);
9.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that the USAID loan
agreement of US$6.0 million had been signed by the Governments of USA and
Liberia (para 5.03) and the Manager of the Agricultural Services division of
BPMU has been appointed (para 6.09).
9.03      A condition of credit disbursement against the cost of establishment
of improved research facilities at CAES Suakoko would be that the Association
has approved the proposals for the reorganization of Agricultural Research
(para 4.13). This would however, not apply in the case of expenses in respect
of continuation of rice research initiated under Credit 306-LBR.



ANNEX I
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Description of Project Area
1.        The project area consisting of three of five districts of Bong
County, lies in the central part of LibSria. The districts Gbarnga, Kokoya
and Sanoyie cover approximately 6500 km , (6% of Liberia's land area).
Topographically, the area is characterized by moderately undulating uplands
with some isolated hills, dissected by a dense pattern of valley bottoms.
2.        The climate is characterized by moderately high temperatures of
about 26 C with very little monthly variation, relatively high levels of
humidity, and a wet season from March through November, with occasional
showers during the dry season. The mean annual rainfall ranges from 1600 to
2200 mm per annum 1/, with the lower values more predominant in the central
part of the project area.
3.        Soil and water.  The parent material that dominates the area is
precaborium crystalline rock, resulting in ferrallitic soils that comprise
most of the dissected uplands (80%) and high hills (8%). At present, these
areas are used for upland rice cultivation under the traditional farming
system of shifting cultivation and for some forestry and tree crops. The
soils are generally of low fertility, are very acid, and have a high laterite
gravel content. It is estimated that about 35% of these soils would be suit-
able for cocoa and coffee development.
4.        The valley bottoms or inland valley swamp comprise some 12% of
the project area and consist of imperfectly to poorly-drained sandy to sandy
clay loams, very acid and or relatively low fertility. However, an adequate
amount of soil with a higher clay content can be found for irrigated rice
cultivation in the valley bottoms. Some of these swamps are presently being
used for rice cultivation during the wet season, and water availability is
adequate to sustain thLe growth of rice varieties of medium. to long duration.
Flooding in swamp areas occurs regularly during the months of July through
September; however, very little is known about specific discharge and water
levels of strearmis.
5.        Population.  The population of the project area is estimated (1974
population census figures inflated with a 2.1%o growth rate per annum) at 139,000
persons, about 9% of the total population of Liberia. Agricultural population
is estimated at 100,000 persons. The average population density is 21 persons
1/   See Table 1.



ANNEX I
Page 2
per km , but varies according to individual clans. Census data for 1962
and 1974 shows that clans with high growth rates are in close proximity
to roads, while clans with decreasing populations, are in areas that are
less accessible. Furthermore, "urban" population in the project area has
more than doubled in the last 15 years. Although migration is significant
in Liberia, the project area seems to have only a slight migration surplus,
as most migrants move only temporarily.
6.        Based on the Agricultural Census of 1971 and the Population Census
of 1974, and their own surveys in 1974 and 1975, the Research and Statistical
Section of the Ministry of Agriculture has estimated the average household
size at approximately 5.3, equivalent to 18,800 farm family households.
7.        The main ethnic group is the Kpelle tribe and tribal relations play
an important role in the farming community. A number of households are
combined into a township, headed by an elected town chief, who is also
chairman of the Council of Elders. In turn, the townships are formed
respectively into clans and chiefdoms. The highest traditional authority
of those three levels is vested in the Council of Elders of which the para-
mount chief is the chairman. The project area consists of six chiefdoms.
8.        General Infrastructure.  Social and related services are limited.
Fifty-five percent (55%) of the population lives within one mile of a road.
Besides the primary (146 km), secondary (220 km), and farm-to-market (132 km)
roads, there are numerous paths and tracks linking popu'ation centers.
Primary and secondary roads have nominal maintenance while farm-to-market
roads have virtually none; consequently, most of the roads are unuseable
during the heavy rains. There are a few small air-strips which are used by
GOL and private aircraft; no scheduled air services exist. Telecommunication
between the project area and other parts of Liberia is limited to a Govern-
ment wireless station in Gbarnga, a telephone link with Monrovia and some
private radio sets. Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC) runs the power
station in Gbarnga (three-diesel generating sets with rated capacity of
2,280 kw) which supplies the town and neighborhoods. Additionally, there
are several small private diesel generator sets in the area (e.g., CAES
Cuttington College, Phabe Hlospital).
9.        There are about 45 elementary schools (32 in the Gbarnga district,
6 in the Kokoya district and 7 in the Sanoyie district), 14 Junior high
schools and one college for graduate students in the project area. 'Iedical
services are limited to the Phabe Hospital and a few Government clinics while
public health and sanitation measures are very rudimentary in the urban centers
and non-existant in rural areas.
10.       Marketing.  There is a lively crop marketing system in the area
through the well-established daily or weekly town markets for rice, palm oil,
vegetables and fruit. Export crops such as coffee, cocoa, palm, kernels are
usually sold through local traders who act as sub-agents for LPIIC's buying
agents. Although most of the paddy is still hand pounded, machine milling
is gradually increasing. Apart from the one ton/hour rice mill in Gbarnga,
there are about 15 privately or cooperatively-owned 1/4 ton/hour mills in the
area.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RAINFALL RECORDS
LOCATION TO           NO. OF
STATION               PROJECT               YEARS   JAN   FEB   MAR   APR   MAY   JUN   JUL   AUG   SEP   OCT   N 1V   DE    TOTAL
(Gbarnga centrally
located in Project)
Suakoko 1/             5 km SW of
Gbarnga            19       15    64   117   142   173   178   165   173   282   198    99    20    1626
Ganta Mission 2/      35 km NE of
Gbarnga            21       18    64   132   191   229   284   236   312   406   259   147    38    2316
Zorzor 2/             90 km NW of
Gbarnga             6       28    41   130   193   127   206   206   315   437   144   135    43    2105
Gibi Estate 2/        80 km SW of
Gbarnga            14       17    58   125   194   236   327   270    424   397   294   133    46    2521
1/ Data up to 1971.
2/ Data up to 1974; location outside project area.
IIl



ANNEX 2
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm and Crop Development
A.   Present Situation
1.        About 10% of the project area is under cultivation 1/ of which
only a third is cultivated by about 75% of all farm families. The majority
of these households have an average farm size of two hectares. Approximately
70% of the cultivated land is under perennial crops, mainly rubber, oil palm
and some cocoa and coffee, and 30% under annual crops, mainly rice and
cassava.
2.        Farming systems.  Nearly all households depend on shifting cultiva-
tion of the uplands for the production of their food crops. The system
consists of felling, burning and clearing of secondary forest followed by
one and sometimes 2 to 3 years of cultivation, after which the land reverts
to bush fallow for 7 to 10 years. The first cropping year is planted with
upland rice and intercropped with vegetables, maize, etc. Where soil fertility
is not depleted, a second or third crop of cassava and groundnuts may be
planted in the uplands and sugar cane and sweet potatoes near the swamps. In
certain inland areas, particularly with some of the clans in the Gbarnga
district, a balanced system of shifting cultivation is disintegrating as the
population pressure has lead to shorter rotations thereby reducing natural
restoration of soil fertility. No suitable alternative to shifting cultivation
for the growing of the basic annual crops has yet been found, and therefore,
it is important that emphasis is given to certain perennial crops ecologically
suitable to the area.
3.        Valley bottom cultivation, although not yet very common in the
Kpelle farming system, is more suitable for permanent rice cultivation. It
is estimated that 10% of the present farm families are engaged in swamp
rice cultivation on a semi-permanent basis, but without effective water
control measures.
4.        The perennial crops, presently grown by the smallholder near the
villages, consist of coffee and cocoa. In general, cultural practices and
maintenance are poor and for most of the year, these "orchards" cannot
be distinguished from the secondary forest.
5.        Animal production is severely restricted due to unfavorable climatic
conditions, absence of natural grasslands, and the general occurence of
Trypanosomiasis.
1/   1971 Agriculture Census.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B.   Farm Size and Land Use 1/
6.        The majority of households cultivate between 1-3 ha per annum.
About 5% of the holdings have farm sizes between 20-200 ha, and take up 65%
of all cultivated land in the project area. These are predominantly rubber
farms and will not participate in the project.
7.        Upland rice production is, for the Kpelle tribe, a way of life.
Ninety-four percent of all smallholders grow an average of just over 1 ha
of rice per household. The percentage of farmholders growing other major
crops in the project area are: cassava 69%, coffee 14%, cocoa 19%, sugar cane
22%, and corn 25%. The crops seldom exceed 1/4 ha per holding. Most farmers
grow vegetables, either inter-planted with the upland rice or planted in
kitchen gardens. Citrus trees, mainly sweet oranges and some grapefruit,
bananas and plantain, are also widespread. Sixty percent of the farm families
are engaged in harvesting of the wild oil palm fruits, most of which are
processed into oil to satisfy local cooking requirements.
Farm Operations
8.        Work on the Upland Rice Farms commences in January/February with
brushing and tree felling. Trees are burnt and the field is cleared of
major debris by May/June. These and other farm operations such as building
temporary shelters and the construction of fences around fields to protect
the crop against groundhogs are done by men. Women and children undertake
all other farm operations on upland rice. The rice seed is broadcast in
June/July. Weeding is not commonly practiced, particularly on holdings having
short bush/fallow rotations. Inland valley swamp rice operations are basically
the same as for upland rice, with the exception that pre-germinated seed is
broadcast or in case of very wet swamps, seedlings are transplanted. Water
control is rare.
9.        The annual operations on the coffee and cocoa "plantations" consist
of brushing the undergrowth once a year just before harvesting. Harvesting
of coffee, consisting of stripping ripe and unripe cherries at one time, is
undertaken between September and January. Cocoa harvesting occurs mainly from
August to December.
10.       Crop Production.  The present production data given below is based
on observations and discussions with farmers and extension workers and is
considered more realistic than the 1975 Agricultural Production Statistics and
the 1971 Agricultural Census.
1/   Information based on 1971 Agricultural Census, Socio-Economic Studies
in Bong County respectively by: van Santen, Harteveldt & Gay, and
1975 National Rice Production Estimates.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Estimated Present Crop Production in Project Area
Upland Rice   Swamp Rice    Coffee I/   Cocoa 1/
Hectares              19,500        1,500          800        1,400
Yield (kg)             1,000        1,300          200          250
Production ('000 kg) 19,500         1,950          136          300
1/   85% of the area in production.
11.       Farm Labor Availability.  From statistical data available the
potential labor force consists of 2.6 labor equivalents per average family.
The average potential number of mandays is 600 per annum or 50 per month
per farm holding.  Assuming most farmholders will give priority to the culti-
vation of over one hectare of upland rice (250 mandays), a balance of 350
mandays would remain for minor food crop cultivation, tree crops, and swamp
development. Due to the seasonal restrictions imposed on the agricultural
activities, the period from March to June and to a lesser extent from mid-
August through November, may already require optimum monthly family labor
uses. On analysis, the only labor constraint will occur in the initial
phases of the proposed swamp development. The labor force required for
the construction of water control devices and initial land leveling would
exceed the farm labor capacity. Hired labor would therefore be required
and a development loan would be provided for this purpose.
12.       Due to the relatively high labor demand in and near the project
area (e.g., rubber plantations, Swedish tree concession for pulp produc-
tion), there may be some limitations in attracting labor; however, as
long as commercial wages are paid, there is no reason why hired labor
should not be available, particularly as the project area, due to its
proximity to Guinea, may attract migrant labor. The project would also
rely on two factors which could reduce labor constraints:
(a)  80% of the households in the area participate in the Kuu
system, consisting of cooperative work groups designed to
provide the labor necessary for any task which is too
much for one man or the members of his immediate house-
hold to complete. Men and women normally form separate
Kuus, depending upon the task.  Large workgroups of
30 to 40 persons may be created for clearing forest
or rice harvesting. The workgroups are always short
term, designed to do a given task and then disband.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Although the Kuu System has reciprocal obligations and
cannot therefore expect to increase the available
mandays per holding, it tends to use labor more effi-
ciently and may be more effective in overcoming the
labor peak periods; and
(b) the project will have a number of mobile development
units, which will be equipped with hand winches and
power saws that would assist in land clearing activities
for tree crop and swamp development.
13.       Land Tenure.  The State is officially the ultimate owner of all
land in Liberia, but tradition-based control, exercised by the tribes in
their areas, is recognized. In addition, land can be held under private
ownership. A recognized member of a traditonal group may occupy and use
any piece of land which is not occupied by anyone else. Shifting upland
cultivation is practiced, but priority of choice exists over land which
has already been cultivated by a man or his ancestors, or that which is
adjacent to his present field. Decisions about cultivating rainfed swamps
and the selection of such sites are usually independent from upland site
claims. Inheritance of an area where a man's priority of choice is re-
cognized is quite common and permanent improvements on the land (e.g., tree
crops) are recognized as being owned by the farmer by both tribal law and
Liberian land law. Additionally, the GOL has instituted a procedure for
freehold land registration which is being utilized in the project area
mainly by large landowners (often absentee). Registration requires
approval from both traditional and GOL authorities. When the land is
finally registered, it becomes subject to real estate tax. 1/
C.   Project Proposals
Upland Development
14.       The upland farm is the traditonal area of cultivation in Liberia
and accounts for over 90% of national rice production and for tree crop
production, which contributes to 20% of export earnings. Although no
suitable alternative to shifting cultivation for the growing of annual food
crops in the forest zone has been found, even marginal improvements in pro-
ductivity per hectare over large areas of upland rice may, through the
introduction of improved rice seed and fertilizer packages, have a signi-
ficant effect on farmer's income and on overall national cereal production.
1/   The yearly rates are as follows:  Unimproved farmland, 5i per acre;
improved farmland, 64 per acre; modern structures, 25 percent of
assessed value. There is an urban-rural differential which allows
urban structures to be assessed higher. For example Gbarnga is
considered an urban area for tax purposes.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       Tree crop development is presently the only alternative to
shifting cultivation and provides one of the few opportunities for
smallholders to earn a cash income. Furthermore, tree crop development
is likely to lead to a more stable upland farming system. Tree crops
considered to be suitable for smallholder cultivation are coffee and
cocoa, but coffee expansion is restricted in Liberia by regulations of
ICA, which only allows an expansion of coffee exports by 5% annually
over Liberia's present quota of 100,000 bags (6,000 tons).
16.       Due to the possibilities of rather long periods of dry weather,
the establishment of coconut and oil palm should be left to other more
suitable ecological regions in the country. Rubber is regarded as a
suitable tree crop for the area, but its development will fall under a
separate scheme.
Rice Production
17.       Varieties.  For upland rainfed conditions, the well-proven Liberia
LAC 23, a variety of medium duration yielding under good managerial condi-
tions between 2.0 and 2.7 tons/ha, is available to farmers to replace the
local low yielding varieties. One of the early drawbacks of LAC 23,
namely its red grain color, has been overcome with the production of a
white grain, LAC 23 variety that has the same disease resistance and yield
potential. Varieties TOS 2581 and 2583 which yield as well as LAC 23,
should be useful for late plantings as they mature one to three weeks
earlier. Improved dressed seed will be introduced on cash or credit terms
to as many farmers as possible through selected villages. The seed will
be replaced every fifth year with the most promising variety at that time.
Seed will be obtained from the National Seed Association, the same agency
from which the Lofa Project obtains its seed.
18.       Fertilizer.  As most of the upland rice is grown under shifting
cultivation intercropped with vegetables and corn, the effect of fertilizer
on rice yields is not fully known and may therefore prove to be uneconomic.
Significant fertilizer response is only expected on farms with suitable
soils, where the land will be more permanently cropped, and paddy is
grown as a pure stand, within a planned rotation. The provisional fer-
tilizer recommendations, based on urea and triple super phosphate, are
23 kg N and 46 kg P205 but as the project develops, this recommendation
would be modified.
19.       Pests and Diseases.  Major problems in Liberia are caused by
groundhogs (Thryonomys swinderianus) and the weaver birds (Ploceus cuculeatus).
Control measures such as fences and bird scarers have only a limited effect.
The most serious fungal disease in the project area is blast caused by
Pyricularia oryzae. Other less important fungal diseases, such as brown
spot, leaf scald and sheath blight also occur with higher incidence in late
planted rice (August). The present rice breeding program (partly financed



ANNEX 2
Page 6
under Credit 306-LBR), puts emphasis on making large-scale varietal
introductions and screening them for resistance against these major
diseases. Serious losses caused by insects seem to occur only
sporadically in Liberia. The most important rice pests found in
Liberia include: Stemborers; mainly, Maliarpha seperatella and
Chilo zocconius, Diopsis, whorl maggot (Hydrellia) and caseworm
(Nymphula dePunctalis), the latter mainly in swamp and irrigated rice.
Although insect damage is not regarded as serious, it may become more
serious in swamp development. It is assumed that about 25% of the crop
will require annual spraying. Folior insecticide spraying has been
included for the proposed swamp development. Until the benefits of
crop spraying are properly evaluated, the project will operate a
spraying service insurance at $2.49/ha (see Table 10).
20.       Average upland rice yield is expected to increase from 3000
to 1300 kg/ha for farmers who use improved dressed seed under shifting
cultivation, whereas rice yields in the more permanently cropped land,
using improved seed and fertilizer are expected to increase from 1000 to
1800 kg/ha. The yield assumptions and input requirements for farmers
receiving this package are given in Table 2.
Coffee and Cocoa Production
Present Status:
21.       Coffee.  Both Liberica, an indigenous variety, and Robusta coffee
are grown on about 14% of the agricultural holdings in the project area.
The standard of cultivation may be classified as semi-abandoned. Most of
the present coffee trees appear to have been planted in the early fifties
and were established from mediocre unselected seed. No attempt is being
made to control pests and diseases, of which the most important one is
the coffee berry borer (Stephanoderes cofeae), which results in a high
proportion of defective beans.
22.       Cocoa.  Cocoa is planted on about 19% of all holdings and is
grown as a forest rather than an orchard crop. Most plantings seem to
have been established some 20 to 25 years ago, mainly from unselected seed.
No disease control has, so far, been attempted. The processing of the
crop hardly recognizes the need for fermenting and this coupled with
improper drying, results in a poor quality product.
Development Program
23.       No rehabilitation of the present crop is envisaged.  With regard
to Robusta coffee most areas have old trees which are past their economic
life and are in a state of semi-abandonment. The small amount of better
cultivated cocoa orchards are in the hands of a few relatively large
farmers who would not participate in the project. Rehabilitation would be



ANNEX 2
Page 7
impractical and would virtually mean new planting. The development
program of coffee and cocoa would therefore consist of new plantings
based on the following technology:
- planting of high yield varieties
- application of appropriate fertilizer
- good field sanitation
- control of pest and diseases
- improvement of processing facilities.
24.       The tree crop program would be carried out from six centers.
Each center will be the headquarters of a tree crop development zone
consisting of about 500 farmers. Participants in each zone would either
group together and develop their coffee and cocoa in one block, which would
facilitate and make the agricultural supporting services more effective, or
would grow their crops on their already-established holdings. Each center
would have a number of production/extension agents who would be supervised
by BPMU's tree crop specialist. Apart from being responsible for the
farmers tree crop development program, the staff should operate at each
center a demonstrat2ion farm where routine variety and fertilizer trials
would be carried out. They would also supervise the production of cocoa
and coffee seedlings located at either central nurseries or at farmer-
owned nurseries. Each zone should also have fermenting and drying
facilities to help to improve better produce quality.
Technical Aspects
25.       Varieties.  Improved planting material is currently available
from seed gardens in the Ivory Coast through SATMACI (Societe d'Assistance
Technique pour la. Modernisation Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire) and IFCC
(Institut Francais du Cafe, du cacao et autres plantes stimulantes). The
cocoa seed is either from selected clones including Upper Amazon or is
GI seed from biclonal seed gardens using one Upper Amazon parent X Amelonado
or other selections. Coffee seed is poly-cross seed derived from six clones
expected to have hybrid properties and is imported from the Ivory Coast.
Diseases and Pests
26.       Cocoa.  Most damage is caused by mireds or capsids, probably
Sahlbergella singularis, which attack both young stem and pods. Heavy
shade may reduce the incidence and good control can be maintained by
spraying. Another pest is the cocoa "Bollworm" (Earias Biplaga) and is
particularly active during the dry season. The most important disease is
Black pod caused by the fungus Phytophtora palmivora; and as a result of
this infection, regular chemical spraying would be recommended with
cuprous oxide.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
27.       Coffee.  The most serious pest is the coffee berry borer
(Stephanoderes cofeae) which would be controlled with Bidrin.
Soil Selection
28.       A much neglected factor in the tree crop development in Liberia
is the selection of suitable soils, in particular for cocoa which has demand-
ing soil requirements. Only 9% of the total project area is estimated to be
suitable for cocoa. Soil pits would be dug before allowing tree crop develop-
ment on individual farm holdings. Farmers would be required to dig 3 or 5 soil
pits per ha so that at least the soil depth can be assessed. For block
development, more exact identification of the proposed area would be required
and a soil survey should be carried out.
Land Preparation
29.       In the year preceding cocoa and coffee planting, selective
clearing of the forest would be carried out, leaving some suitable trees
to serve as permanent shade. Assistance in tree felling would be provided
by BPMU's power saw service.
Food and Shade Crops
30.       After clearing and burning, narrow rows of plantain would be
established for shade, followed by the planting of a rice crop for
September harvesting, by which time the plantain stand should be doubled.
Weeding, shade adjustment and harvesting of plantains are the main operations
to be carried out in the initial years after coffee and cocoa are planted.
Nurseries
31.       LPMC would continue to import selected cocoa and coffee seed from
the Ivory Coast and seedlings would be raised at the six tree crop centers
and/or on individual farm holding nurseries. Costs of raising seedlings are
given in Table 3.
Planting and Maintenance
32.       Cocoa.  In the year following the rice harvest and planting of
shade trees, cocoa is planted with each planting hole receiving a dressing
at a rate of 350 kg of rock phosphate per ha. From Year 4 onwards, about
300 kg/ha NPK (15-15-15) would be applied annually. The main operations
until Year 5 would be weeding, cleaning, disease control and shade adjust-
ment. The temporary shade crops should be removed in Years 3 and 4. By
Year 5, the cocoa canopy should close and weeds should therefore become a
minor problem. During August-December of Year 5, the first crop (200
kg/ha) is expected. Cost and yield assumptions are given in Table 4.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
33.       Coffee.  Basically, the same practices would be applied for
coffee, except that more consideration would be given to the pruning of
trees. The first harvest is expected in Year 4 (300 kg/ha). Cost and
yield assumptions are given in Table 5.
34.       The present recommendations for fertilizer application and
disease control are not more than composite averages and may well have
to be changed during project implementation as results are drawn from
the tree crop research program to be established in Suakoko, and from
the Lofa project.
Processing
35.       Cocoa.  Adequate fermentation is very important to allow the
proper chocolate flavor to be produced. Very little fermentation is
done in Liberia, resulting generally in lower export prices compared to
most other West African cocoas. In order to improve the quality of cocoa,
the project would introduce fermenting baskets, trays and boxes, to farmers
through the various development centers. More emphasis would be placed
upon the drying of the fermented beans. Apart from sun drying on wooden
trays, artificial drying would be introduced on a pilot basis at the
centers using the Samoan-type dryer, with wood as fuel.
36.       Coffee.  The processing of coffee carried out by farmers would
consist mainly of sun-drying the cherries. Artificial drying facilities
(Samoan dryers) would also be available at the centers. The hulling of
the dried cherries would be carried out by LPMC in Monrovia and later on
when project production increases, LPMC would provide hulling facilities
in Gbarnga.
Inland Valley Swamps (Valley Bottoms)
37.       Most inland valley swamps in the project area consist of narrow
alluvial overflow plains with a very high groundwater table. Under the
existing farming system, swamp rice cultivation takes place only if upland
rice falls short of farmers' subsistence needs. There is evidence, however,
that during the last 10 years, swamp rice cultivation has become somewhat
more popular and since 1972, the Ministry of Agriculture has succeeded,
through its "Expanded Rice Development Program," in developing 500 ha of
swamp land in Bong County for permanent rice cultivation.
38.       Due to the comparatively high population densities among certain
clans (e.g., Jorquelle and Bonwein) in the project area, and for the clans
in the proposed pulpwood concession area in Kokoya District, availability
of upland for rice production will become a problem. For such areas, the



ANNEX 2
Page 10
only alternatives would be swamp development, where annual crops can be
cultivated more easily on a permanent basis than the uplands. It is felt
that a modest small-scale swamp development program for rice cultivation
would benefit a relatively large number of farmers. The most important
aspects of the technological package are set out below.
Rice Development
39.       Flood water control is one of the key factors for successful
swamp rice cultivation. Experience from the Ministry of Agriculture's
"expanded rice projects" and the Agricultural Engineering Section in
Suakoko, show that effective water control is possible using a low-level,
labor-intensive technology. The decisive factors for determining swamp
development are catchment, topography and soils. Farmers accepting the
proposed technology would cultivate their land in the first year under
traditional methods, but would use improved seed. During the first
crop season, BPMU's land development unit would carry out simple topo-
graphical surveys of the area, assess soils and water levels and related
discharge, and based on these findings, design the technical layout for
the swamp's development.
40.       Since most of the proposed swamp development is based on producing
only one rainy season rice crop, emphasis would be on flood control measures.
These measures should consist of a central floodway channel, plus an up-
stream flood protection dike to prevent flooding in the fields. Peripheral
distribution and secondary drainage channels to secure a more controlled
supply and outlet of water would be developed and assistance in bunding and
leveling of farm plots would be provided. The areas to be developed may vary
in size, but are expected to be less than 10 ha. The implementation of the
proposed layouts would be the responsibility of the farmers supervised by the
extension staff. Digging, construction of canals, bund making and leveling
would be carried out by farmers to whom development loans would be extended
(see Table 6).
41.       Experience of reclaimed swamp has so far led to the coflclusion
that it is usually impossible to grow a second crop because of lack of water
in January/February. To allow for a small number of farmers to double crop
rice it may be possible to construct small supplementary works (weirs) in
the flood control channels, to lift and store water to make irrigation
possible for 1 to 2 months. During the first two years of swamp development,
each swamp earmarked for double rice cropping must be assessed on its suit-
ability by BPMU through the collection of sufficient discharge, topographical
and soil survey data. It is envisaged that under the guidance of the land
development unit, implementation of supplementary structures would be carried
out in the third year of development by farmers and additional development
loans would be made available (see Table 6).



ANNEX 2
Page 11
42.       Varieties.  The present recommended variety for general swamp
land cultivation is IR 5 which matures in about 145 days and for iron toxic
swamps, Gissi 27. Both varieties would be introduced. Although both
have yielded under farming conditions between two to four tons/ha, depending
upon the managerial level, they have a number of drawbacks which are important
to overcome: IR 5 is susceptible to all major diseases, and Gissi 27 is
photosensitive, has a long duration, and is susceptible to a number of
diseases. In 1974, trials carried out at Suakoko indicated 2526 and IR 1416-
131-5 superior to IR 5 in moderately iron toxic swamps. IR 1416-131-5 was
also found to be highly resistant to leaf and neck blast. Its superiority
over IR 5 has been confirmed in 1975. Before these varieties can be re-
leased for seed multiplication, they must first be proven under farmers'
conditions. Another important aspect is to develop a high yielding, short
duration variety, to intensify swamp rice cultivation by growing two crops
in the rainy season without the need to provide supplementary irrigation.
43.       Fertilizer.  Nutrient status of the soils in the bottomlands of
the project area are low and plot observations and trials have shown good
responses to nitrogen and phosphate. The provisional recommendations, based
on urea and triple superphosphate, are set at about 90 kg N and 40 to 50 kg
P205 per hectare. It is expected that adjustments to these recommendations
will be made as more information is obtained from the simple unreplicated
(mini kit) trials presently being carried out on farmers' fields under the
IITA program.
Pests and Diseases (See para 21)
44.       Iron toxicity is one of the main problems of inland valley swamps
and is due to the swamp's high iron content, low pH, high organic matter,
and poor drainage conditions. High concentrations of ferrous iron reduces
phosphorous availability and/or damages the root system to limit nutrient
uptake capacity. Although iron toxicity reduces yields, some varieties, such
as Gissi 27 and 2526 are found to be moderately tolerant and should therefore
be used in new reclaimed swamps with toxic conditions. Furthermore, it
has been found that either burning of the rice straw or incorporating it
directly and adding lime will alleviate toxicity symptoms.
Rice Mechanization
45.       Labor will be a constraint in double cropping on the swamps and
could necessitate use of labor-saving equipment. Substantial labor can
be saved in land preparation, and experience shows that a 7-HP, two-wheel
tractor or power tiller, capable of cultivating between 5 and 7.5 ha for
double cropping, is feasible. The project would therefore introduce a small
number of such power tillers to farmers adopting the advanced swamp develop-
ment farming system. The tillers would be provided under a loan and/or rental
scheme and BPMU would organize a maintenance and a repair service. The pro-
gram would work in close liaison with the present Agricultural Engineering



ANNEX 2
Page 12
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and with the (mobile) workshop fa-
cilities which may be made available under the UNDP/FAO rice cultivation
program. A considerable amount of labor is also required for harvesting.
Rather than using the traditional labor-intensive method of harvesting each
panicle individually, it is recommended that all farmers involved in swamp
development should change to sickle harvesting and thresh with simple pedal
threshers.
46.       The above technological improvements are expected to result in an
average yield increase from the existing 1400 kg/ha to 3000 kg/ha in the
swamps' third development year. For the advanced swamp rice farmers a
cropping intensity of 175% has been assumed, increasing their yield from 1400
kg/ha to 5250 kg/ha in Year 4. The yield assumptions and input requirements
for the improved (one crop) and advanced (1.75 crop) packages are given in
Tables 6 and 7.
Rotational Crops
47.       Sugar cane (rum) and vegetables are sometimes rotated with swamp
rice. Since most of the swamps suitable for rice cultivation will only be
dry around January/February, BPMU would encourage vegetable production as
a second crop. Good results can be obtained from crops such as maize, cow-
peas, groundnuts, watermelons, without supplementary irrigation. However,
before this can be implemented, more basic information would be needed
regarding suitable varieties, cultural practices and market potentials.
Proposed Farm and Crop Development Program
48.       From past experience of similar projects in West Africa, it has
been found, that within the constraints of finance, management, and in
particular the extension service, not more than 40 to 50% of the 19,000
project area farm families would participate in the project techical
package. Although it is not known which individual or combination package
will be selected by each farmer on this basis, it has been estimated that
about 9,000 farm families would participate. Farmers' participation has
been based on the assumption that most will be treecrop farmers (0.75 ha
of cocoa or coffee together with some upland rice) and the remainder would
be mainly engaged in swamp development (1 ha improved swamp rice and some
improved upland rice). The proposed cropping program and acceptance rate
of participating farmers is given below and production projections, based
on yield assumptions (see Table 8) are given in Tables 9 and 10.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Year     1       2       3        4      5    Total
Upland
Upland Rice (semi-improved)          500      750    1000    1000   1000   4250
Upland Rice (improved)               100      200     300      400    500   1500
Coffee                                 -      150     350      500    500   1500
Cocoa                                  -      300     700    1000   1000   3000
Inland Valley Swamps
(Valley bottoms)
Swamp Rice (improved)                  -      250     500      500    500   1750
Swamp Rice (advanced)                100      100     100        -      -    300
(Pilot irrigation)
Number of Farmers                    500    1400    2300    2600   2000   8800
D.   Farm Budgets
49.       While no attempt has been made to produce a typical farm budget,
since farm sizes, crop combination and land ownership problems are diverse
and unidentified; illustrative crop budgets (1 hectare) have been produced
for upland rice, cocoa, coffee, and inland valley rice (see Tables 2, 11,
12, 13 and 14) and demonstrates both the economics and the improvements
attainable.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swamp Rice Spraying Cost
Spraying Requirements:    Unit       Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Incremental hectares        ha         100       350      600       500      500
Sprayed (25%) 1/            ha          25        88      150       125      125
Sprayers 2/                 no           3       10        17        18       25 3/
Cost of Sprayers
at $52/each                $          156      520       884       936    1,300
Cost of Insecticide
at $4.06/ha 4/             $          102      357       609       508      508
TOTAL COST                         258      877    1,493    1,444    1,808
Spraying Cost per Total Hectares
Capital                   $ 0.62
Repairs (100%)            $ 0.62
Insecticide                 1.02
Subtotal               2.26
Service Charge         0.23
TOTAL                  2.49 per ha.
1/ Spraying requirements have been assumed at 25% of total
hectares; spraying to be done within 10 days.
2/ One sprayer per ha/day plus 15% in reserve.
3/ Replacement of sprayers every 3 years.
4/ 1.25 kg dicarbam 50 per hectare.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One HectareFarm Budget
Upland Rice
(PHYSICAL)                                     Unit       Traditional        Semi-Improved           Improved
Year 0             Year 1           Year 1    Year 2-5
OUTPUT
Yield of paddy                                 kg            1000               1300             1600        1800
INPUT    Labor:
Land clearing/preparation                    mandays           45                 45               70
Planting/fertilizing                            "              15                 15               20
Weeding/fencing                                 "              30                 30               50
Bird Scaring                                    "              15                 15               20
Harvesting/Threshing                            "              35                 40               45          50
Total Labor                                         140                 145              205         210
Crop Inputs:
Seed                                           kg              35                 50               50          50
Fertilizer: urea                               kg              --                 --              100         100
Triple super phosphate            kg              --                  --               50          50
Tools                                         N/A                                 --               --          --
(FINANCIAL)                                                                      US - _  _  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Price         Year 0              Year 1           Year,l    Year 2-4    Year 5
INCOME
Sale of paddy  1/                           25U/kg            250                325              400         450        450
EXPENDITURE
254/kg              9                                              13
Seed  j/                                    384/kg                                19                19                    19
27 #/kg                                               27          27         27
Fertilizer  3/                               24 #/kg                                                12         12         12
Tools  4/                                                       6                   6               14         --         --
Interest  -  10%                                                                   2                 7          5          6
Net return per ha                                             235                298               321        393        386
Net return per manday                                         1.68              2.06             1.57        1.87       1.84
1/   See Annex 9, Table 2.
2/   Improved rice seed would be provided on seasonal credit every 5th year
and fertilizer every year.
3/   See Annex 2 , Table 18.
4/   Seasonal loan of $14 provided to farmers for improved tools (e.g., sickles).



ANNEX 2
Table 3
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Seedlings 1/
COCOA
Cost of cocoa pod ex-farm Ivory Coast                        $ .25   (US)
Transport of truckload (10,000 pods)
to planting site at $1,600
Cost of Transport per cocoa pod                           .16
Cost per pod in Bong County                               .41
Cost per seed (based at 35 seeds per pod
with 60% success rate in nursery)                             .02
Polythene bags                                                 .01
Overhead shade                                                 .04
Filling/soil                                                   .01
Transport                                                      .75
Fertilizer and Pest Control                                    .01
Watering                                                       .01
Cost per cocoa seedling  (including 10%
service charge) rounded                                       .12
COFFEE
Cost of seed from Ivory Coast to planting site              $ 7.50/kg
Cost per seed                                                  .005
Germinating seeds and transplanting                            .05
Polythene bags                                                 .01
Overhead shade                                                  .04
Filling/soil                                                   .01
Transport                                                      *75
Fertilizer and Pest Control                                    .01
Watering                                                        .01
Cost per seedling (including 10%
service charge) rounded                                       .16
1/ Source: LPMC 1975 Planting Cost.



ANNEX 2
Table4
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cocoa Development and Production Costs
(Per Na)
OUTPUT (Yield in kg)                 YR 1       YR 2       YR 3       YR 4       YR 5       YR 6      YR 7       YR 8       YR 9       YR 10
Cocoa                                                                            200        400        600       800        900        1000
Rice                                 1300
Plantains/Bananas                             10,000    10,000
INPUTS
Labor: (mandays)
Land clearing & preparation           80         10
Rice cultivation                      85
Staking                               20
Planting Shade and Food crops          30
Weeding/Cleaning                        5        35         28         21         14         14         14         14        14          14
Nursery                                          30
Holing                                           30
Planting Cocoa                                   20
Fertilizer                                        4          8          8          8          8          8          8          8           8
Disease control                                  12         14         14         12          8          8          8          8           8
Pruning/Shade management                                    10         14         15         10         10         10        10          10
Supplying cocoa                                   3          2
Harvesting/Processing                             20        20         16         10         18         28         38        46          57
TOTAL Mandays                      220        164         82         73         59         58         68        78         86          97
Other inputs:                       - --                                         us$
Rice Seed 384/kg  50 kg/ha             19.00
Plantain  ghoots 1,300                 26.00
Cocoa seedlings-:  1320/132 at O.A2U             158.40     15.84
Fertilizer: 2/
Rock phosphate      386kg/ha                   69.48
Sulphate ammonia   60 kg                                  10.20
NPK 15-15-15        240/330 kg/ha                                    64.80      89.10      89.10      89.10    89.10       89.10       89.10
Endrin                                          1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00      1.00       1.00        1.00
Cuprous Oxide       1.5 kg/ha                                                               6.12       6.12      6.12       6.12        6.12
Spraying equipment  3/                           35.00                            35.00                           35.00
Hand tools  4/                        40.00
Land Development Service  5/          40.00
Processing  6/                                                                    70.00      30.00
TOTAL                               125.00    263.88      27.04      65.80    195.10    126.22        96.22    131.22       96.22      96.22
Development Loan    7/               106.00      264.00     28.00      66.00    195.00    126.00          -         --        --          --
Seasonal Loan    7/                    19.00      --         --         --         --         --        96.00    131.00       96.00      96.00
1/  See Annex 2, Table 2.
2/ See Annex 2, Table 18.
3/ Replacement every 4th year.
4/ 2 knives, 2 cutlass, 2 spades
5/ See Annex 2 , Table 16.
6/ See Annex 2 , Table 17.
7/ Figures Rounded.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Development and Production Costs
(Per ha)
OUTPUT  (Yield in kg)                 YR 1      YP 2       YR 3       YR 4       YR 5       YR 6       YR 7       YR 8       YR 9       YR 10
Coffee  (Clean)                        --        --         --        300        800        1000       1000       1000       1000       1000
Rice                                  1300
rlantains/Bananas                             10 300     10 000
INPUTS
Labor: (nandays)
Land clearing & preparation            80         10
Rice cultivation                       85
Staking                                20
Planting Shade and FoGd crops          30
Weeding/Cleaning                        5         35        35         35         35          42         42         42         42         42
Nursery                                           30
Holing                                           30
Planting coffee                                  20
Fertilizer                                         4          8         8          8           8          8          8          8          8
Disease control                                   12        14         14         14          14         14         14         14         14
Pruning/Shade management                                    10         18         18          20         20         20         20         20
Supplying coffee                                  3          2
Harvesting/Processing                             20        20         40         75         120        120        120        120        120
TOTAL Mandays                      220        164         89        115        150         204        204        204        204        204
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  US  $
Other Inputs:
Rice Seed: 38t/kg   50kg/ha            19.00
Plantain shoots                        26.00
Coffee seedlings 1/ 1320/132 at 0.16/           211.20      21.12
Fertilizer:  2/
Rock phosphate    386 kg/ha                    69.48
Sulphate Ammonia  120/180 kg/ha                20.40      30.60
NPK 15-15-15       240/330 kg/ha                                     64.80      89.10       89.10      89.10      89.10      89.10     89.10
Chemicals:
Endrin             2.5litors/ha                 1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00        1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00
Bidrin             0.1liters/ha                                       1.10       1.10        1.10       1.10       1.10       1.10       1.10
Spraying Equipment  3/                            17.00                           17.00                             17.00
Hand tools   4/                        40.00
Land Development Service  5/           40.00
Processing Equipment  6/                                    15.00      35.00
TOTAL                              125.00    319.08       67.72    101.90    108.20         91.20      91.20    108.20      91.20      91.20
Development Loan   71                106.00    32n.0n       7n,nn    102.00
Seasonal Loan    7/                    19.00      --         --         --       108.00       91.00      91.00    108.00       91.00     91.00
if  See Annex 2, Table 2.
2/ See Annex 2, Table 18.
3/ Replacement every 4th year.
4/ 2 knives,2 cutlass, 2 spades
5/ See Annex 2, Table 16.
6/ See Annex 2, Table 17.
7/ Figures rounded.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Development Cost
Swamp Rice
Mandays & US$/ha
Labor:                                Mandays       Year 1       Year 2       Year 3
Traditional  Improved      Advanced
Brushing, Burning and land
clearing                               "             66            10          -
Stump removal                                         --             25         -
Irrigation Canal Construction                         --            105         30
Drainage Canal Construction                                          -          -
Bunding                                               --             20          5
Levelling and Land Tilling                            --             90         40
Flood protection dikes                                --            100         50
Small earthen dam construction                       --             -           90
for up to 10 acres
Total mandays                                         66            350        215
less Farmers own labor                                66             95         65
Hired Labor                                            0            255        150
Cost at rate of $1.50/day               $             --            382.50     225
Material:
Tools 1/                                $             20             15         60
Total Development Cost                  $             20            397.50     285
DEVELOPMENT LOAN (infrastructure)       $             20            400.00     285
1/ Tools will consist of shovels, wheelbarrows, planks, culverts,
of which the latter three will only be issued for pilot irrigation
schemes.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RICE PRODUCTION COST
Swamp Rice
---------------IITROVED -     -----------       ---------------ADVANCED----------------
Unit        Yr I   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 5   Yr 6          Yr 1   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 5   Yr 6
OUTPUT:
Crop intensity                        Crops/yr        1       1       1      1       1       1         1       1      1.2   1.75   1.75   1.75
Yield of paddy                           kg          1800   2500   3000   3000   3000   3000          1800   2500   3600   5250   5250   5250
INPUTS
Labor:
Land preparation                      mandays           45     60      65      65     65      65        45      60      75     30      30      30
Canal & Bund Maintenance                               --       5      10      10     10      10        --       5      10     15      15      15
Nursery & Transplanting                                 40     45      50      50     50      50        40      45      60     88      88      88
Fertilizing                                            -        3       4       4      4       4                 3       5      8       8       8
Weeding/Fencing                                         30     40      55      55     55      55        30      40      66     96      96      96
Bird scaring                                            15     20      20      20     20      20        15      20      30     40      40      40
Harvesting/Threshing                                    45     53      60      60     60      60        45      53      72    105    105    105
TOTAL                                              175    226    264    264    264    264           175    226    318    38Z    382    382
CROP INPUTS  1/                                        ----------------------------------US DOLLARS -------------------------------------
0.254/kg         --      13      13     13      --      13        --      13     16      23      10      23
Seed  2/  50 kg/ha                    0.38j/kg         19      --      _-      __     19      __        19      --      --     --      19      --
Fertilizer:3/Urea  200 kg/ha                           --      54      54      54     54      54        --      54      65     95      95      95
Triple Super
Phosphate 100kg/ha                       --      24      24     24      24      24        --      24      29     42      42      42
Spraying  4/                                           --       2       2       2      2       2        __       2       3       4      4       4
Power Tiller  5/                                        --     --      --      --     --      --        --      --      --    270    270    270
Pedal Thresher  6/                                     --    165       --            165      --        --    165       --     --    165       --
Miscellaneous   7/                                     --      14      27      27     12      27        _       23      36      36     21      36
TOTAL                                               19    272    120    120    276    120            19    281    149    470    626    470
DEVELOPMENT LOAN  8/ (cultivation)                      --    165      --      --    165      --        --    165       --     --    165       __
SEASONAL LOAN  9/                                      19      92    107    107    111    107           19    101    133    447    451    447
1/  Improved seed would be provided every 5th year.
2/  See Annex  9 , Table 2.
3/  See Annex  2 , Table 18.
4/  See Annex  2 , Table 1
5/  See Annex  2 ,Table 15.
6/  One pedal thresher at $300 plus 10% for spare parts annually for a two-hectare lot; replaced every 4 years for improved                         i-.
advanced; cost plus spare part for first year given out as development loan; spare part subsequent years as seasonal loan.
7/  50 bags at 0.60/bag or $30; replaced every 2-1/2 years at t12/year for inproved (C30-- 2.5) & *21  for advanced (1.75 X 12);
2 sickles at $1.00 each.
8/  Repayment over 3 years at 10% interest.                             9/  Repayment at 10% interest.



ANNEX 2
Table 8
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Crop Yields -kg/ha
Project Year            Coffee       Cocoa              Upland Rice              Swamp Rice
Semi-
Improved 2/ Improved 3/ Improved4l/ Advancedt
0 1/                 200          250          1,000         1,000       1,400       1,400
1                     -            -           1,300         1,600       1,600       1,600
2                                  -           1,300         1,800       2,500       2,500
3                                  -           1,300         1,800       3,000       3,600
4                    300           -           1,300         1,800       3,000       5,250
5                    800          200          1,300         1,800       3,000       5,250
6                  1,000          400          1,300         1,800       3,000       5,250
7                  1,000          600          1,300         1,800       3,000       5,250
8                  1,000          800          1,300         1,800       3,000       5,250
9                  1,000          900          1,300         1,800       3,000       5,250
10                  1,000        1,000          1,300         1,800       3,000       5,250
1/ Without project.
2/ Min. package: Improved seed.
3/ Min. package: Improved seed - fertilizer.
4/ Min. package: Improved seed - fertilizer.
5/ Min. package: Improved seed - fertilizer (cropping intensity: 1.75/year).



ANNEX 2
Table 9
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Projection of Rice Production 1/
H E C T A R E                                            P R O J E C T   Y E A R
Year of          Non-
Planting       Cumulative   Cumulative          1         2         3         4        5         6         7         8         9      10-30
1. Semi-Improved                ----------------------------------'000 kg -------------------------------------------
Upland Rice
1              500          500            650      650       650       650       650       650      650       650       650       650
2              750         1250             -        975      975       975       975       975      975       975       975       975
3            1000         2250              -        -       1300      1300      1300     1300      1300      1300      1300      1300
4             1000         3250             -                  -       1300      1300     1300      1300      1300      lISO      ijuu
5             1000         4250             -         -        -         -       1300      1300     1300      1300      1300      1300
Total Production                650      1625     2925      4225      5525      5525      5525     5525      5525      J5Z)
Without Project                 500      1250      2250     3250      4250      4250      4250     4250      4250      4250
Incremental                     150       375       675      975      1275      1275      1275     1275      1275      1275
2. Improved Upland Rice
1              100          100            160       180      180       180       180       180       180      180       180       180
2              200          300             -        320      360       360       360       360       360      360       360       360
3              300          600             -        -        480       540       540       540      540       540       540       540
4              400         1000             -         -        -        640       720       720       720      720       720       720
5              500         1500             -         -        -         -        800       900      900       900       900       900
Total Production                160       500      1020     1720      2600      2700      2700      2700     2700      2700
Without Project                 100       300       600     1000      1500      1500      1500     1500      1500      1500
Incremental                      60       200      420       720      1100      1200     1200      1200      1200      1200
3. Improved Swamp Rice
1                            -              -        -          _        _         _         _         _        _         _         _
2              250          250             -        400      625       750       750       750      750       750       750       750
3              500          500             -         -        800     1250      1500      1500     1500      1500      1500      1500
4              500          500             -         -        -        800      1250      1500     1500      1500      1500      1500
5              500          500             -         -        -         -        800      1250     1500      1500      1500      1500
Total Production                 -        400      1425     2800      4300      5000     5250      5250      5250      5250
Without Project  2/              -         70       210      490       560       560       560      560       560       560
Incremental                      -        330      1215     2310      3740      4440     4690      4690      4690      4690
4. Advanced Swamp Rice
1              100          100            160       250      360       525       525       525      525       525       525       525
2              100          200             -        160      250       360       525       525      525       525       525      525
3              100          300             -         -       160       250       360      525       525       525       525      525
4                                  -                           _         _         _         _ -                _         _         _
5                                           -         -         -        _         -         _        _         _         _         _
Total Production                160       410       770     1135      1410      1575     1575      1575      1575      1575
TOTAL INCREMENTAL               370      1315      3080     5140      7525      8490     8740      8740      8740      8740
1/  For yield assumptions, see Annex 2 , Table 8.
2/  400 hectares assumed to be rehabilitated, respectively 50,100,200,50.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Projection of Cocoa and Coffee Production 1/
Year of
Planting    Hectare    Year  1        2     3      4      5     6      7     8      9      10     11      12      13      14-30
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - '000 kg COCOA - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Yr. 1            -                          -                   -                                                    
2          300                                      60   120   180   240   270    300         300    300    300       300
3           700            -     -      -     -      -   140   280   420   560    360         700    700    700       700
4        1,000             -     -      -     -      -      -   200   400   600    800        900   1000   1000    1000
5        1,000             -     -      -     -      -      -     -   200   400    600        800    900   1000    1000
TOTAL         3,000            -      -     -      -    60   260   660  1260  1830   2330    2700   2900   3000    3000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - '000 kg COFFEE - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Yr. 1            -             -                   -     -      -      -     -      -       -        -       -       -  
2          150             -     -      -    45   120   150   150   150   150    150          150    150    150        150
3          350             -     -      -     -   105   280   350   350   350    350          350    350    350    .350
4          500             -     -      -      -     -   150   400   500   500    500         500    500    500        500
5          500             _     -             -     -      -   150   400   500    500        500    500    500        500
TOTAL         1,500            -      -     -    45   225   580  1050  1400  1500   1500    1500   1500   1500    1500
1/ For yield assumptions, see Annex 2, Table 8.
1H M
IDC
I-1I



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Farm Budget & Cash Flow
Cocoa
Year I     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8      Year 9      Year 10    Year 11        Year 12      Year 13    Year 14
SOURCE OF FlNDS
Cocoa   I/                                     -            _           _           _          123         245         368         490         552         613         613           613          613         613
Rice   1/                                     325                 -           -                 -           -           -           -           -           -            -            -            -           -
Plantains/Bananas 3,/kg                        -           300         300          -           -           -
Development Loan                              106          264          28          66          195        126                -                 -           -            -            -            -           -
Seasonal Loan                                  19           -           -           -           -           -           96         131         96          96         131            96           96         131
Total                                  450          564         328          66         318         371        464          621         648         709         744          709          709          744
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Development Cost                              106.00       263,88       27.04       65.80      195.10      126.22       -           -           -           -           -             -            -           -
Seasonal Cost                                  19.00        -           -           -           -           -           96.22      131.22       96.22       96.22      131.22         96.22        96.22      131.22
Debt Service                                                      -                             -           -
Development Loan 2/                            -            _           _           _           48.96      170.90      183.83      214.31      255.42      191.68      178.75        148.27        58.20
Seasonal Loan 3/                               20.90        --          -           -           -           -          105.60      144.10      105.60      105.60      144.10       105.60        105.60      144.10
Total                                  145.90       263.88       27.04       65.80      244.06      297.12      385.15      489.63     457.24       393.50      454.07       350.09        260.02      275.32
Net Return                                    304.10       300.12      300.96        0.20       73.94       73.88       78.85      131.37      190.76      315.50       289.93       358.91       448.98      4t:8.68
Family Labor  (mandays)                       220          164          82          73          59          58          68          78          86          97          97            97           97          97
Net Return per Manday                           1.38         1.83        3.67       -            1.25        1.27        1.16        1.68        2.22        3,25         2.99         3.70         4.63          83
1/ For financial farmgate price, see Annex 9, Table 6.
2/ Loan for 8 years with 4 years of grace at 10% interest.
(at negotiations it was agreed for both cocoa and coffee
that loans woold be repaid over 12 years).
3/ Repayment at 107 interest.
cr 2



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Farm Budget and Cash Flow
Coffee
YR 1      YR 2      YR 3      YR 4      YR 5      YR 6      YR 7      YR 8       YR 9      YR 10      YR 11       YR
SOURCE OF FUNDS             ---                    -     -------------US DOLLARS----------------------------------------------------
Coffee (clean) l/                                             287       765       956       956       956        956       956        956        956
Paddy Rice I/                  325
Plantains/Bananas  34/kg                  300       300
Development Loan               106        320        70       102
Seasonal Loans                  19                                      108        91        91       108       91         91         108         91
Total                      450       620       370       369       873      1047       1047      1064    1047       1047         1064       1047
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Development Cost               106.00    319.08    67.72   101.90         -         -         -          -         -         -          -
Seasonal Inputs                 19.00       -         -         -       108.20    91.20    91.20.  108.20    91.20    91.20    108.20              91.20
Debt Service:
Development Loan  2/              -         -         -         -        48.96   196.76   229.09   276.20   227.24    79.44            47.11        -
Seasonal Loan   3/              20.90       -         -         -       118.80   100.10   100.10   118.80   110.10    100.10   118.80            100.10
Total                      145.90   319.08    67.72   101.90   275.96   388.06   420.39   503.20   418.54    270.74   274.11                 191.30
Net Return                     304.10   300.92   302.28   287.10   597.04   658.94   626.61   560.80   628.46    776.26   789.89                  855.70
Family Labor (mandays)          220       164        89       115       150       204       204        204       204        204       204         204
Net return per Mandesy         1.38       1.83      3.40      2.50      3.98      3.23      3.07       2.75     3.08        3.81      3.87        4.19
1/ For financial farmgate price, see Annex 9, Table 4.
2/ Loan for 8 years, with 4 years of grace at 10% interest.
(at negotiations it was agreed for both coffee and cocoa
that loans would be repaid over 12 years).
3/ Repayment at 10% interest.
CDZ
r-Z



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One ha Farm budget and Cash Flow
Imp roved S
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9
Yield of paddy Rice                         1600       2500       3000       3000       3000       3000        3000       3000       3000
Source of Fundsus$
Value of Paddy at 25k/kg 1/                  400        625        750        750        750         750        750        750        750
Development loan (infrastructure) 2/          20        400         -          -                                 - 
Se4(cultivation) 3/        -         165         -          -         165          -          -         165         -
Seasonal  loan    ( t       i19                          92        107        107        111         107        107        111        107
Total                 439       1282        857        857       1026         857        857       1026        857
Application of Funds
Development Cost (infrastructure)             20        398         -          -          -          _                      -          -
Developmert Ccst (cultivation) 5/             -         165         -          -         165         -           -         165         -
Seasonal Inputs                               19        107        120        120        111         120        120        111        120
Debt Service
Development infrastructure 6/                            -         102        102        102         102        102        102 
Development cultivation 7/                               -          73         73         73          73         73         73          73
Seasonal 8/                                   21        101        118        118        122         118        118        122        118
Total                  60        771        413        413        573         413        413        573        311
'et return                                   379        511        444        444        453         444        444        453        546
Family labor   (mandays)                    241         321        264        264        264         264        264        264        264
Net return per manday                        1.57       1.59       1.68       1.68       1.71        1.68       1.6t       1.71       2.07
l/  For financial Farmgate price see Annex 9 , table 2.
21  See Annex 2 , table 6.
See   "   2,          7.
4/  See   "   2,          7.
5/  Funds have been provided for threshing, but may not be required as demand is                                                   z
uncertain.  If not required, these funds will be used for additional onfarm development.
6/  Loan for 8 years including a two-year grace at 10% interest.
7/  Loan for 4 years at 10% interest.
8/ Repayment at 10% interest.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Ha Farm Budget and Cash Flow
Advanced Swamp Rice (Cropping Intensity = l75%)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5 Year 6/7  Year 8  Year 9/10 Year 11
Yield of Paddy Rice                           1600      2500     3600      5250      5250      5250      5250      5250      5250
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - US $ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Source of Funds
Value of Paddy at 25/kg 1/                     400       625      900      1312      1312      1312      1312      1312      1312
Development Loan (infrastructure) 2/            20      400       285        --        --        ---
(cultivation) 3/             --       165        --        --       165        --      165        --        165
Seasonal Loan 4/                                19      101       133       447       451       447      451        447       451
Total                   439      1291      1318      1759      1928      1759     1928       1759      192 8
Application of Funds
Development Cost (infrastructure)               20      398       285        --        --        --        --        --
Development Cost (cultivation)                  --       165       --        --       165        --       165        --        165
Seasonal Inputs                                 19      116       149       470       461       470       461       470        46i
Debt Service                                    --        -                   -        --             --
Development Infrastructure 5/                   --        --      102       102       181       181       181        /9        --
Development Cultivation 6/                      --       --        73        73        73        73        73        73        73
Seasonal  7/                                    21      111       146       492       496       492       496      492       496
Total                     60      790       755      1137      1376     1216      1376      1114      1195
Net Return                                     3/9      501       563       622       552       543       552       645       733
Family Labor                                   241      321       382       382       382       382       382       382       382
Net Return Manday                             1.57     1.56      1.47      1.62      1.44      1.42      1.44     1.68      1.91
1/ For financial farmgate price see Annex 9, Table 2.
2/ See Annex 2, Table 6.
3/ See Annex 2, Table 7.
4/ See Annex 2, Table 7.
5/ Loan for 8 years including 2 years grace at 10% interest.
6/Loan for 4 years at 10% interest.
7/ Repayment at 10% interest.



ANNEX 2
Table 15
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Power Tiller Cost
(Per ha)
Assumptions:
Depreciation 7 HP Power tiller          :       4 years or 3000 hours
Operation per year                      :       Field preparation for rice
cultivation 2 X 6 weeks (42 hours/week
or 500 hours/year).
Assistance in swamp development
work, 250 hours/year
Field preparation for rice cultivation:         40 hours/ha
Cost of power tiller                    :       $2,950
Power Tiller Cost Per Hour/ha:
Depreciation                            :       $    0.98
Repair and Maintenance (150%)           :            1.47
Fuel and Lubricants  1/                 :            0.55
Operator  2/                            :            0.50
$    3.50
Service Charge                                     .35
3.85 per hour or $154.00 per ha.
1/ 1.75 liters/hr; lubricant 30% of fuel cost.
2/ $3/day - 6 hours/day.



ANNEX 2
Table 16
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Power Saw Service Cost
(Per ha)
Assumptions:
Operation:                               One saw service team operating 6 chain saws
(2 in reserve) for selective felling - 50
hectares/month or 2.5 hectares per day.
Depreciation of saws:                    1000 hours
Cost of Equipment (8):                   $4,000
Power Saw Service Cost Per Hectare:
Depreciation                             $    4.00
Repair and Maintenance (150%)                  6.00
Fuel and Lubricants  1/                       10.50
Operations:  1 Foreman      -  $5/day         13.00
1 Mechanic    -  $3.50/day
6 Operators       $3/day
4 Servicemen  -  $1.50/day
Transport Cost ($100/month)                    2.00
35.50
Service Charge                    3.55
$    40.00
1/ 11 liters/day: Lubricant, 3 liters/day.



ANNEX 2
Teble 17
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVLLOPMENT PROJECT
Processing Equipment - Cocoa and Coffee
Costs
24 wooden fermenting %.-s  each
tray 0.9 m x 0.6 m x 13 cml             at $2.50 per tray              60.00
8 wooden drying trays, each
tray 2.5 m x 1 m                        at $5.00 per tray              40.00
1 rainproof sheet to house the
trays 3 m x 4 m                         at $50.00                      50.00
150.00
Note: $100 to be charged against cocoa;
$ 50 to be charged against coffee.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Cost
Triple
N-P-K           Ammonia         Super                  Rock
15-15-15          Sulphate       Phosphate            Phosphate                 Urea
- - ------------ -----------------US DOLLARS ----------------------------  --
F.O.B. Western Europe 1/        118               38               90                  45                      115
Transport & Port handling        70               70               70                  70                        70
CIF Monrovia                    188              108             160                  115                      185
Transport to Gbarnga 2/          30               30               30                  30                        30
Landed cost Gbarnga             218              138             190                  145                      215
Finance Cost & Storage 3/        22               14              19                   15                       22
Local Distribution &
Handling Cost                    7                7                7                   7                         7
Total Farm                      247              159             216                  167                      244
10% markup                       24               16              21                   16                       24
Cost per ton 5/                 271              175             237                  183                      268
Cost per kg                     0.27             0.17            0.24                 0.18                     0.27
1/ Source: Commodity Division, IBRD.
2/ $0.26/ton/mile for 115 miles.
3/ LPMC Commission, 5% of landed Gbarnga, finance charges,                                                                  H A
storage cost.
4/ Transport at $0.30 per ton/mile for 20 miles.
5/ 5% cooperative commission, 5% to cover storage, etc.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Support Services: Research, Seed Multiplication and Extension
A.   Research
1.        There are four major institutions -- two each in the public and
private sectors -- that are involved in research activities in Liberia, of
which the most important are: The Firestone Plantation Company, which is
mainly involved in rubber; The Liberian Agricultural Company, which in the
past had major programs in rice research and selected the upland variety
LAC 23, but is now mainly occupied with its livestock program; The College
of Agriculture and Forestry is mainly carrying out applied research on
forestry and wood utilization with some experimental work in annual crops;
and additionally, The West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA)
coordinates and oversees rice varietal and fertilizer trials in West Africa
through CAES. The Central Agricultural Experiment Station (CAES), which is
the main research center of the Ministry of Agriculture in the country, is
located in Suakoko; the center of the project area. Most of the above
organizations function rather independently and there is very little exchange
of ideas. In an effort to improve coordination of all research activities
in the county, the Liberian Agricultural Research Council was established in
November, 1974, but so far it has been largely ineffective.
Research Program and Recomendations
Rice
2.        Since the late fifties, CAES has been involved in applied rice
research, however, no significant results were obtained until 1970 when
the UNDP/FAO "Development of Rice Cultivation Project" came into being and
a rice agronomist was stationed in Suakoko. Subsequently, in 1973 a rice
breeder was appointed to the station under a consultative program with IITA
and financed by IDA (Credit 306-LBR). Both these programs have provided
definite recommendations on variety, cultural practices, and fertilizer appli-
cations. To date, about 2,000 lines of upland rice have been tested and LAC 23
has been established as the most suitable one for Liberia's upland conditions.
It seems, therefore, that future varietal improvement work on LAC 23 should
focus more on crossing of local selections with early generation breeding
material.
3.        Future varietal improvement work for inland valley swamp conditions
should emphasize the screening for disease resistance such as blast, leaf
scald and brown spot, and for tolerance to iron toxicity, since these are
the major limitations to the present recommended varieties.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Although fertilizer trials have been carried out, the past
program was far too small to be significant. Furthermore, very few
fertilizer replicate field trials were carried out under farmer's
conditions, and it is not possible to give firm recommendations for the
various rice-growing conditions in Liberia. Similarly, herbicide trials
although of lower priority have not been given adequate coverage and are
therefore excluded from the proposed packages.
Coffee and Cocoa
5.        Despite the fact that Government continues to implement annually
a substantial tree crop development program in the country, no research
on tree crops with the exception of rubber, is carried out in Liberia.
The improved packages used so far by the Ministry of Agriculture and LPMC,
have been based on the recommendations of SATMACI and IFFC in the Ivory
Coast and have not been tested out under Liberian conditions. The present
recommended package may therefore not be the most suitable one, since the
climate and soils differ considerably in Liberia.
6.        To remedy this situation, priority should be given for the establish-
ment of a research program in coffee cocoa, oil palm and coconut. Accordingly,
the coffee and cocoa research programs should be undertaken by CAES at Suakoko
which should provide for:
(i) testing of different varieties in different soil types,
(ii) determining fertilizer requirements of these crops under
different soil types,
(iii) evaluation of the existing pest and diseases in the country
and their control measures based on chemical and agronomical
methods,
(iv) evaluating the needs and benefits of shade trees (e.g.,
Gliricidia) and in particular, temporary shade crops like
plantain and cocoyam.
7.        In general, agricultural research in Liberia lacks proper direction,
planning, implementation and coordination. Consequently, past efforts have
been largely ineffective and constraints have been both organizational as
well as financial. The CAES is poorly staffed, has limited physical faci-
licies, is inadequately financed, and lacks the administrative and financial
power to organize effective research. In order to alleviate some of the
constraints, funds were provided under Credit 306-LBR for the improvement
of rice research at the station. Some progress has been made and activities
are likely to continue till August 1977 (the closing date of Credit 306-LBR).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        It is intended that this project will provide finances to cater
for some of Liberia's immediate research needs: a) continuity in the research
efforts started under 306-LBR; b) initiating research activities in the field
of cocoa and coffee; c) overall improvement of the physical facilities at
CAES, in particular laboratory facilities for the agronomy and soil section.
In addition, funds would be provided for two consultant man-months for a
review of the present status of research, the required organizational changes
which would make research more effective and the setting up of research
priorities.
B.   Seed Multiplication
9.        The project will depend to a large extent upon the provision of
improved seeds to farmers. LAC 23 will be used for upland rice and IR 5
and Gissi 27 for inland swamp conditions. It is expected, however, that the
latter two will be replaced by IR 1416-131-5 and 2526 within the project
period. CAES will provide the breeder's seed. Since there are no seed mul-
tiplication facilities available in the project area other than CAES, it is
envisaged that the National Seed Association (NSA), a young private organi-
zation established in 1973, will multiply initially the breeder's seed in the
Foya area together with the seed required for the Lofa project. During
project implementation, it is expected that NSA will establish a branch in the
project area. The foundation seed produced by NSA, will be supplied together
with other inputs, like fertilizer and insecticide, to a number of selected
farmers. These farms should at the same time be used as demonstration farms,
where also simple trials could be carried out under the supervision of the PMU
extension staff. The registered seed produced by these farms will be bought
by PMU and made available to farmers.
10.       Based on a recommended seed rate of 50 kg/ha, provided every
fifth year to rice farmers, the seed requirements in tons are given below.
At the same time, based on a yield of 1,800 kg/ha for upland rice and of
3,000 kg/ha for inland valley swamps, the corresponding hectares for seed
multiplication are given in brackets:
PY     1         2         3          4           5
LAC 23               30 (17)  48 (27)   65 (36)   70 (39)   75 (42)
IR 5/Gissi 27 1/      5 (2)   18 (6)    30 (10)   25 (9)       3 (1)
Coffee and Cocoa
11.       Since the establishment of seed gardens would require about 5 years
before sufficient seed material would be available for distribution to farmers,
coffee and cocoa seed required for the project will be imported by LPMC from
IFFC in the Ivory Coast. The following seed importation is anticipated under
the project:
1/   1 kg seed per ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Year         1        2        3        4        5
Coffee (kg)                   150      350      500      500       -
Cocoa ('000 pods) 1/          20        50       66       66       -
In the long term, dependence on sources outside the country for its seed
supply is not realistic. Accordingly, it is recommended that the project
would establish seed gardens to be controlled and operated by CAES.
C.   Extension Services
12.       The successful implementation of the Project program will largely
depend on the efficiency of the PMU extension personnel. This efficiency
is to a great extent determined by the agent/farmer ratio, the mobility
of the extension worker and by the level and type of training received by
extension workers.
13.       The Extension Service presently operating in the project area
consists of about 19 staff members, supervised by the County Extension
Agent who is based at Gbarnga. Most of these people are extension aides,
dispersed over the area dealing directly with farmers in matters of agri-
cultural production or home economics. Except for the county agents, who
are graduates of the College of Agriculture and Forestry of the University
of Liberia, the majority of extension workers have received a secondary
education, but have received very little in-service training. About 5
"tpractical" aides (running demonstration farms) are illiterate and have
received a short course at the Agricultural Extension Training Center (AETC)
at the University Farm near Monrovia. In general, it can be said that the
present extension service in the Project Area is understaffed (agent/farmer
ratio is over 1:1000), lacks transport facilities and practical, on-the-
Job training.
14.       It is proposed that the project area would be divided into six
development zones, each staffed by an extension officer and by 10 to 20
extension aides. They would be assisted and supervised by the field
and tree crop specialists and other technical services, such as the Land
Development Unit, provided by PMU headquarters in Suakoko. Depending on the
type of phasing of the farm and crop development, the number of extension
aides to farmers would be based on an average ratio of I to 50 in the first
two years, increasing to 100 and 150 in the third and fourth development
years. The most intensive ratio of 1:25 would be for the initial development
years in the pilot irrigation and swamp development. Field staff would
be provided with adequate transport facilities and their conditions of ser-
vice would be improved. Extension aides would receive additional training.
In general, however, they will be trained on the job by their immediate
1/   1 pod = 20 seeds; 66 pods per ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
supervisors and PMU's specialist officers.  Short, specialized, in-
service training courses would be given at the Training Center at
Suakoko by personnel of PMU and CAES. Due to the lack of expertise
in Liberia in coffee and cocoa development, some initial training in
tree crop development would be necessary and a number of extension
staff would, in the first year of the project, be sent for 2 to 3 months
for a course at the SATMACI Training Center at Divo and Gagnoa in the
Ivory Coast.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Support Services: Cooperatives. Credit, Input Supply and Marketing
Section I: Past and Present Services and Institutions
A. Cooperatives
Background to Recent Developments in Liberia
1.        The "Cooperative Society Act" was promulgated in 1936, with a revi-
sion in 1956. To date, it has been the principal legislation under which
Liberian cooperative societies function. However, the Act did not initiate
any major cooperative formation for almost 25 years, until early in 1971
when the Cooperative, Credit and Marketing Division of the Ministry of Agri-
culture became operational, and a number of amendments and By-Laws to the
Act were formulated. Under the guidance of the Division the first three
cooperative societies were registered in 1971.
2.        The personnel of the Cooperative, Credit and Marketing Division
of MOA has been static in recent years, and staffing is inadequate to give
full support to all the newly registered societies. The number of personnel
enlisted at the Division in 1974 was 19.
The Cooperative Movement in the Project Area
3.        In the project area the cooperative movement has not been success-
ful so far. However, some initiative has emerged which shows that the idea
has become popular among the farmers.
Kapartawee - The only registered cooperative, it is completely
controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture from Monrovia. Its
members are mostly absentee landlords from throughout Bong
County and elsewhere. The books of the cooperative are kept
in Monrovia and there is no local autonomy.
Sanoyie (Kilebei) - This group, like the first, is a non-
autonomous undertaking. All entrance fees and share payments
are deposited with the District Commissioner, who redeposits
them with the County Superintendent. The group is not as yet
registered and apparently keeps no books. It had a project
last year in which ten acres of upland rice were grown.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Zointa (Wolota clan, Kpai Chiefdom) - This is the only positive
cooperative undertaking. It is a pre-cooperative attempting to
become registered. At present, it has 486 members. An initial
share contribution of $16, which is kept locally, makes it the
most expensive cooperative to join in the country. The coopera-
tive buys members' produce for resale at a slight profit. The
cooperative meets once a month in a different market town. Other
original features of the group include the announcement of meetings
over the radio in four clan dialects, and provision for Lebanese/
Mandingo traders to become members. This latter group mills and
transports co-op produce on a commission basis.
B. Credit
4.        There is no formal system capable of supplying credit in sufficient
quantity to small-scale farmers in Liberia. Borrowings occurs mainly under
conditions prevailing in the traditional society. Local credit societies
called suu-suus also exist. These flexible and informal groups are usually
composed of the members of a clan or smaller unit, and rely on mutual trust
and confidence. Usually all members make equal monthly contributions to a
fund and generally a preselected member is able to borrow the entire amount
for that month.
5.        Since August 1972 the Cooperative, Credit and Marketing Division
(CCMD) of the Ministry of Agriculture has made some funds available to pro-
vide farmers with credit for productive purposes. The fund is limited and
credit repayments are poor.  CCMD is too weak and disorganized to serve as a
channel for project funds.
6.        Until recently LPMC supplied tree crop seedlings to all farmers on
a long-term credit basis. However, since early 1976 it has introduced a pro-
gramm of providing free seedlings for up to 10 ha to any farmers willing to
plant tree crops.
7.        The Government is aware of the present unsatisfactory state con-
cerning agricultural credit. But the prospect of a proper lending institu-
tion being built up in the near future is rather limited. Under the Lofa
County Project, Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI), will
operate a project revolving credit fund, and a similar development is pro-
posed for Bong County. Such interim measures are only good for circumvent-
ing prevailing institutional inadequacies; and it is of utmost importance
that the Government give priority to establishing appropriate Credit system
to service the long-term needs of the country.
C. Input Supply
8.        At present, the use and supply of material inputs is insignificant.
Farmers depend largely on private traders for the purchase of these inputs.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
In principle, traders are willing to sell all the goods for which there is
a stable demand and which farmers can afford on cash terms. Hence, the simple
tools commonly used, such as hoes, axes and knives are easily obtainable in
local shops. The demand for fertilizers and chemicals, on the other hand,
is small in the project area, and dealers are unwilling to store these items.
During the project review survey, it was observed that input suppliers were
becoming more willing to offer limited quantities of fertilizers. Several
of the general trading stores along the road had small amounts of some com-
pounds on hand.
D. Marketing
Collecting and Processing
9.        The 1971 Agricultural Census indicates that 23% of Upper Bong
farmers with under ten hectares sell agricultural products; three-quarters of
them farm solely to meet their own needs, and only 5% sell their products on a
regular weekly basis. Of the latter, 3% of all farmers who produce beyond
their own needs sell on their own holding; 11% use a motor car for transport,
and 86% deliver their goods by foot.
10.       Farmers living in or near the larger locations sell coffee, cocoa
and palm kernels usually to small village traders. Those farmers living in
the vicinity of the buying stations of the two LPMC agents usually deliver
their products direct. However, the majority of the farmers live too far
from the next trader or buying point to be able to deliver the products there.
They have two marketing options: If not too far from one of the weekly mar-
ket places, they bring their goods to these markets. Here, products are
bought by Lebanese or Mandingo traders who visit these markets with trucks
or pickups. When even the weekly market place is too far away from the farm,
the farmer is compelled to find an intermediary who will bring the goods to
the nearest trader or LPMC agent.
11.       After collecting and assembling the products, the two LPMC agents
transport the products to the LPMC warehouse in Monrovia, where they are
stored and processed before shipping. Until a few years ago the LPMC in
Monrovia purchased produce from any trader. Today, however, only the deliv-
eries of licensed agents are accepted.
Cocoa
12.       After harvest, the cocoa is sun dried and then sold to the traders.
Only rarely are the wet beans fermented. The result is that most cocoa beans
are slaty and of poor quality and result in lower prices.
Coffee
13.       Farmers deliver coffee in clean or cherry form.  The processing of
cherry by the farmers is done by the traditional method of handpounding with
pestle and mortar. Coffee delivered in cherry form is hulled at the LPMC



ANNEX 4
Page 4
coffee mill in Monrovia. The price differentiation between cherry and clean
coffee is used by the LPMC to regulate the proportion of cherry to clean
coffee. A relatively low price for clean coffee against cherry will in gene-
ral increase the proportion of cherry coffee delivered by the farmers. The
advantage here is that the cherry coffee will then be processed in the LPMC
mill and the resulting clean coffee will be of better quality than that pro-
cessed by the farmers. But because the cherry coffee must be transported to
the mill in Monrovia for processing, transportation costs are relatively higher.
LPMC currently has plans to increase its coffee milling capacity, and in
future proposes to purchase only cherry coffee in an effort to upgrade quality.
Rice
14.       Rice, the main subsistence crop, is cultivated primarily for the
provision of the farm householders' own needs and is sold only on a small
scale. Statistical information indicates that on average, the project area
has been self-sufficient in rice in recent years. In 1974, total rice pro-
duction in the project area amounted to 8,700 tons of clean rice. The present
annual per capita consumption in the whole of Liberia can be estimated at about
93 kilograms of clean rice. It can be assumed that per capita consumption in
the project area is slightly below this average figure, especially as'the con-
sumption of vegetables (particularly cassava) appears to be higher here than
in other parts of Liberia. If a per capita consumption of 80 kilos is assumed
for Upper Bong, this would mean a total annual consumption of approximately
9,000 tons of rice.
15.       The limited market production is sold by farmers either on local
markets or to traders. Part of the rice is transported to Monrovia and to the
concessions. Another portion is stored by traders, to be sold later. Shortly
before the new rice harvest, the price of rice is approximately one-third
higher than it is after harvest.
16.       Paddy for farmers' own consumption is generally hand pounded.  As
this operation is time-consuming, an increasing number of small, simple rice
mills have begun'to spread throughout Upper Bong and about 24 are working
as custom mills. They are part Engelberg type hullers and part rubber roller
shellers. The average milling fee per 100 kilos of paddy rice in these small
mills is $2.20. The small mills offer the advantage that they are generally
located fairly near the farmer; in addition, milling costs are low. The disad-
vantage is that the outturn of milled rice is low, in some cases not amounting
to more than 50%.
Storage of Produce
17.       Storage is undertaken by farmers and traders.  The farmers store rice
for home consumption in the roof of the kitchen building, where it is dried by
warmth and smoke and is largely kept free from pests. Cocoa and coffee are
delivered directly to the LPMC agents or the traders, who have only limited
storage facilities, and consequently store the products only for the brief
transition period of product assembly. The main storage facilities for tree



ANNEX 4
Page 5
crop products are the LPMC warehouses in Monrovia. The storage capacity
of the LPMC rice-buying station in Gbarnga is not more than 70 tons.
The Role of Market Towns
18.       Market towns fill a key role in the project area.  Each chiefdom
in the area is serviced by an all-weather road which connects several popula-
tion centers. They hold market days once a week for sellers from the sur-
rounding villages to market their produce. In turn, each market center is
the convergence of several foot trails leading from the villages. Village
traders and subagents frequently arrive in these market towns on the estab-
lished days to transact business.
Price and Price System
19.       In 1973 a new price formula for coffee, cocoa and palm kernels was
prepared on the basis of world market prices. The farmgate price is estab-
lished after the following deductions:
- Costs of the LPMC;
- Transfers to a newly established Reserve
for Price Stabilization;
- Subsidies to the Fund for Agricultural
Development; and
- LPMC profits.
20.       Under the new system, the farmer is offered a more stable price,
in view of fluctuating world market prices, and a more equitable share in the
final value of his product.  When prices rise on the world market, internal
producer prices and LPMC profits will also be allowed to rise; but part of
the f.o.b. price will be placed in the Reserve for Price Stabilization. When
export prices decline, LPMC profits will decrease at the same time, transfers
to the Reserve for Price Stabilization will be reduced and if prices fall
below a certain level, the producer prices will be supported by withdrawals
from the Reserve. On average, the producer prices received by farmers amount
to 50-60% of the world market prices. The price system described here
does not apply to rice, for which a fixed purchase price is determined.
21.       LPMC pays uniform prices, regardless of the quality standard.  Grad-
uated price reductions are applied when the moisture content exceeds certain
limits, but the quality of the variety and the processing quality are not
taken into consideration. The farmer, therefore, is given no incentive to
select better varieties or to ensure better varieties or to ensure better pro-
cessing of his products; this is reflected in the low quality of clean coffee
and cocoa. From time to time LPMC has attempted to institute additional price



ANNEX 4
Page 6
differentials for quality produce, but until now, this policy has led to
charges of discrimination, and differentials have been abolished. Fixed
prices are paid to licensed agents at the LPMC warehouses in Monrovia. The
agents are expected to pay the same price to the farmers. For their marketing
activities they receive a handling allowance and commission which is 8%
for cocoa, 6% for palm kernels and coffee, 5% for piassava and maize, and 6%
for rice.  In addition, the LPMC pays an allowance for the transport of
produce from the agents' warehouses to the LPMC warehouses in Monrovia.
22.       The system as described does not function properly in the project
area. Unjustified quality discounts as well as fraudulent weighing methods
serve to further reduce the farmers' share. High transportation costs must
be paid by the farmers in delivering their produce to the purchasing agents.
It is estimated that farmers receive a price of about 25% (for rice) and 20%
(for cocoa, coffee and palm kernels) less than official LPMC prices.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Section II: ProPosed Project Strategy
A. Cooperative Organization
23.       The multi-purpose service cooperative is best suited to serve the
needs of most farmers, and would grant credit, supply inputs, and market
agricultural produce.
Phasing of the Cooperatives
24.       The following details two alternative systems of cooperative
society development for the project area. Neither are exclusive, and in
practice, both may exist side by side.
25.       For concentrated groups.  Suitable for the proposed block planta-
tions and assumes that entire village groups would opt to enter the project
at the same time in order to farm together. In this case the proposed upland
rice (year one)/tree crops (following years) cycle would be pursued. Village-
level primary societies would be formed, using traditional "kuu" working
arrangements wherever possible. While each farmer would receive title to
his individual plot, land clearing, input requests, credit extension, and
marketing would all be done through the group. Likewise, the group would be
responsible for input transport and storage, and credit repayment. This
system assumes a minimum number of farmers per group (20, for example), and
in order to maintain group trust and efficient, inexpensive management, pri-
mary societies should be limited to no more than approximately 50 members.
When several primary societies are functioning in a chiefdom (after the second
or third year), a chiefdom cooperative would be established. Such cooperatives
would then begin to take over many of the input supply, credit extension, and
marketing services previously performed by the BPMU. The village societies
would then become affiliates of the local chiefdom cooperative.
26.       For dispersed membershig - not following the block plantation scheme.
This would be particularly applicable to those areas where, due to sparse popu-
lation concentrations, land quality, or the absence of communal working
arrangements, small farmers choose to enter the project individually. The
establishment of kuu-like village groups would have to wait until enough
villagers in an area are ready to adopt.  Thus, the chiefdom level cooperatives,
composed of early but individual adopters, would have to be established
first.
27.       In a later stage of cooperative development the six chiefdom cooper-
atives could unite to form a country-wide federation of cooperatives that
might take over many BPMU functions during the phase out of project activities.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Cooperative Staffing
28.       The Cooperative/Comercial Division of the BPMU would be headed by
an expatriate manager and his Liberian deputy. The division would be divided
into three sections: Cooperatives, Credit, and Commercial. When the project
is fully staffed, the Cooperative Section would have 12 field officers, and
the Credit and Commercial Sections three each. The cooperative field officers
would act as managers and bookkeepers for the six chiefdom cooperatives; two
officers would be assigned to each cooperative. Of the total number of ex-
tension aides, one-third would be trained in grass roots cooperative and credit
affairs. The latter would be assigned to the cooperatives under the direction
of the cooperative manager (approximately one officer for each 300 members).
29.       The cooperative field officers would handle day-to-day operations
of the cooperatives, arranging for the provision and supervision of coopera-
tive services. The co-op/credit extension aides would work in close coordi-
nation with the agricultural extension aides, in drawing up the farm credit
plans, supervising delivery and proper use of inputs, advising the farmers of
their credit obligations, and supervising the delivery of produce to the market
centers and/or cooperatives.
Cooperative Location
30.       At the start of project implementation, district offices of BPMU
would be established in the six project area chiefdoms. The location of these
offices should be selected according to the future proposed location of the
chiefdom cooperatives. The following towns have been selected:
- Kpai Chiefdom - Palala
- Panta Chiefdom - Fokole or Belimu
- Zota Chiefdom - Belefuani
- Sanoyie Chiefdom - Sanoyie
- Jorquelle Chiefdom - Suakoko
- Kokoyah Chiefdom - Botota
31.       With a proposed target population of 9,000 farmers, the chiefdom
breakdown would be as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 9
ASSUMED MEMBERSHIP FIGURES OF COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES
IN THE PROJECT AREA, 1980
No. of Farm               Prospective
Households                Cooperative
Chiefdom          1980 1/                Members 2/
Jorquelle        11,270                     4,500
Sanoyie           3,526                     1,400
Kpai              2,600                     1,000
Zota              2,530                     1,000
Panta             1,730                       700
Kokoyah           1,860                       800
Total        23,516                      9,300
1/   Provisional figures, 1974 Population Census, in-
flated to 1980 at 2.1% increase p.a. House-
holds of 5.2 average membership.
2/   Forty percent of farmers assumed to join the coop-
eratives.
Cooperative Leadership
32.       At the chiefdom level the cooperatives will be governed by a Board
of Directors (titled the "lawmakers") which would be headed by the Paramount
Chief, with tribal or clan leaders as other members.  It is felt that the
normal tribal leadership structure should be maintained at the outset to
stimulate farmer confidence and that cooperative officers should not be
elected for the first few years. Two representatives from each primary
society would attend monthly meetings, in order to present the views of their
constituents. The governing body of the primary societies would most likely
be the same as that for the village -- i.e., the chief and his elders.
Cooperative Financing
33.       During the initial years many of the services provided by the
project will be subsidized. It is expected, however, that over time the
cooperatives will be able to assume most of this burden. To accomplish
this, cooperatives must be placed on a sound financial footing from the
outset, and it is proposed that cooperatives should receive at least three
sources of income: seasonal and development loan interest, and commissions
on agricultural inputs and produce channelled through the cooperatives.
Ten percent interest to be collected on seasonal and development loans,
hence, 3% should remain with the cooperatives, with the remaining 4% being
paid into the Revolving Loan Fund.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
34.       The cooperatives would increase the price of supplied inputs by
5% to cover the costs of their services. As LBAs of the LPMC, the coopera-
tives will also receive the normal marketing commission -- 4-8%, depending on
the crop (see discussion on Prices and Price System, Section I). These
percentages are merely estimates at this time and should be subjected to BPMU
review to assess their adequacy in covering future costs.
B. FARM CREDIT SUPPLY SYSTEM
The Credit System
35.       As Bong County does not have any local credit institutions, coopera-
tive credit service division of the BPMU would have the primary responsibility
of organizing project credit program.  Farm inputs and equipment would be
available on credit, and bank loans will be available for local labor. Before
the cooperatives are formed, the BPMU would have the responsibility of credit
allocation to the village primary societies and individual early adopters.
The cooperatives, on becoming organized and viable, would be assigned this
responsibility. Individual credit requests would be summarized by the village
level societies and would be passed on to the chiefdom cooperatives where they
in turn would be summarized and passed on to BPMU. For each village group or
clan a credit advising committee (consisting of village/clan chief and BPMU
local coop/credit staff) will be established which will scrutinize and approve
individual credit requests. Responsibility for repayment would follow the
same pattern. A project revolving credit fund would be established under an
agreement between LBDI and GOL, the former acting as administrator of the
fund. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the fund would be
established by September 30, 1977 in accordance with a trust agreement satis-
factory to the Bank. All credit repayments including interest would be cre-
dited to the fund. The fund would charge farmer cooperatives (or BPMU)
7% per annum on loans onlent to farmers at 10%. LBDI would receive 2% of
the disbursed funds as commission for administering the fund. At the end of
project development in 1982 the fund would have an estimated US$570,000, and
by 1989 development loans amounting to US$2.5 million would have been repaid
and would be available for further agricultural development as determined by
the trust agreement (see Table 1).
Planning Credit Needs
36.       The planning of individual farmer credit needs would be the task
of the cooperative and credit field officers but they will be assisted by
the extension staff of BPMU. In the initial years, aides would be super-
vised by Credit Officers working out of BPMU district officers.
37.       The following four-step planning process assumes the project to
be in an advanced phase with the cooperatives, primary village groups, and
a full complement of personnel all in place would be as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 11
A.   Farmer visited by extension aide/Credit officers.
- Proper land clearance is verified;
- Area of farm to be planted is determined;
- Crops to be planted are specified according
to hectarage;
- Farm Credit Plan is completed. This form
estimates input requirements, total costs,
estimated yields, and income. One copy is
left with the farmer, one is kept with the
village primary society, and one is kept with
the chiefdom cooperative; and
- In the case of a new member a Farmer Appraisal
Form is completed which details the farmer's
inventory in terms of family labor supply,
material resources, and past cropping experi-
ence.
B.   Credit field officer collects credit plans by village and deli-
vers them to the village groups and the chiefdom cooperative.
The Cooperative Credit Officer then holds a meeting with each
village group to check the plans. Village consolidated credit
plans are prepared by the Cooperative Credit Officer and are
taken to the chiefdom level cooperatives. A copy is left with
the village group.
C.   The Village Consolidated Credit Plans are reviewed by the Coopera-
tive Managers, consolidated into a Cooperative Credit Plan and sent
to BPMU.
If the block plantation system is utilized, the number of visits by the
extension aides would be greatly reduced. Additionally, consolidated credit
plans would be made for the entire block plantation as a first step, thus
eliminating paperwork at the primary level.
Selection of Credit Recipients
38.       Although the elders of the village level groups would be responsible
for the selection of credit recipients, they would be subjected to certain
guidelines. A potential recipient would agree:
- to accept input packages as specified by the
project and to use them for the prescribed
purposes;



ANNEX 4
Page 12
- to deliver total market production to the
cooperative;
- that his credit will be deducted from the
sales proceeds at agreed rates established
by BPMU; and
- to be responsible for the credit obligations of
other primary groups members if they should de-
fault on their loans due to circumstances other
than crop failure.
Credit Repayment Mechanism
39.       The procedure for credit repayment would be a three-phased process
staffed and directed as follows:
- the extension aides with credit/cooperative
training would visit the farmers prior to
harvest to assess/estimate potential yields,
provide sacks, and advise farmers of their
credit obligations;
- as the harvest progresses, the farmer would
deliver his produce to the village marketing
center, cooperative, or BPMU/LPMC facilities.
At these points the produce would be weighed
and graded with the amounts and values recorded
on the records of the cooperative and in the
farmer's passbook; and
- when the value of the produce reaches the
level of his loan, the debt would be cancelled
and the farmer would begin to receive cash pay-
ments. As the loan is in the process of being
paid off, any outstanding interest owed would
be cancelled first, followed by the principal.
For village-level groups, no cash payments should
be made until all members of the group have can-
celled their loans.
Terms of Loans
40.       Two types of credit would be issued:
- seasonal credits, repayable after harvest and
with a rate of interest of 10% for a normal
period of approximately eight months; and



ANNEX 4
Page 13
- Medium-term investment credits for land develop-
ment and planting of tree crops; coffee and cocoa
loans would be disbursed over a period of six and
four years respectively, while most of swamp deve-
lopment loans would be disbursed over two to three
years. There would be no grace period. Coffee and
cocoa development loans will be for a period of
twelve years and for swamp rice eight years in-
cluding a four-year and a two-year grace period
respectively during which interest would be
capitalized.
41.       Interest rates have been set in conformity with the Lofa County
Development Project. Nevertheless, it would be the responsibility of the
Evaluation Section of MA to periodically monitor the practicality of these
rates. BPMU, along with hectarage limitations, would establish credit limit-
ations per farmer. These limitations would vary according to the crops
planted and the costs involved.
C. INPUT SUPPLY SYSTEM
Estimation of Project Input Requirements
42.       As the lead time necessary for the international bidding, trans-
portation, and importation of fertilizers can be 6-9 months, some system
of early estimation of project needs must be implemented. The responsibility
for this task should lie with the Land Survey Team and the Agricultural
Manager. The team would identify the areas suitable for various crops.
Based on project priorities and targets for each crop group, the manager
would then calculate the estimated input needs for each year. Inputs would
be ordered from foreign suppliers through LPMC.
43.       Fertilizers and other chemicals will be obtained from overseas
suppliers, while seedlings will come from LPMC nurseries already established
in Liberia. Rice seed for swamp and upland would be obtained from the Seed
Multiplication Scheme which has been proposed as part of the Lofa County In-
tegrated Rural Development Project.
Storage
44.       Storage of inputs in Gbarnga would be provided by LPMC, which would
make arrangements for providing additional storage as demand requires.
45.       As the project develops, there will be a need for cooperatives to
arrange for temporary storage facilities. Central points within the areas
of the cooperatives would be chosen and rented storage procured. Adequate
storage facilities are both available and reasonably priced. During the
early years of the project and before the cooperatives become viable units,
it would probably be necessary for BPMU District Offices to make storage
arrangements. This service would be turned over to the cooperatives as soon
as possible. At the village levels, storage facilities would be provided



ANNEX 4
Page 14
by individual farmers in their huts. If any other type of facility becomes
necessary, the village level groups would be instructed to arrange for it.
Distribution Network
46.       LPMC would be responsible for the delivery of inputs to its own
or the BPMU's warehouses in Gbarnga. From that point on, final distribution
would be carried out in two phases:
a)   From Gbarnga to the cooperatives' central points.
Assuming that all of these points will be along a
passable road, BPMU would be responsible for trans-
portation to the warehouse of the cooperatives. It
would utilize its own pick-ups, tractor trailers and
rented vehicles when necessary.
b)   From the cooperatives' central points to villages.
At the cooperatives, the input needs of each village
group would be made and the villagers advised. Where
road transport is possible, transportation would be
arranged by BPMU. Where no road exists, head carriers
would have to be used. Villagers would be encouraged
to provide this service. Individual farmers would be
responsible for the transport of inputs from villages
to their farms.
Input Pricing
47.       As for the Lofa County Project, the LPMC would be entitled 5%
of the lended Gbarnga cost of all inputs they import plus appropriate trans-
port costs. The cooperatives would add an additional 5% markup, which
at this time is estimated sufficient to cover their costs of input supply. As
the cooperatives and/or BPMU incur transportation costs in the final delivery
of the inputs to the village groups, these costs would also be added to a far-
mer's credit record, so that he pays the full delivered cost of the com-
modities.
Machinery Provision
48.       Smnall farm equipment, e.g., pedal threshers, power tillers, chain
saws, knapsack sprayers, hand winches, etc., would be provided by BFMU.
Threshers would be sold at full cost to individual farmers or groups while
other equipments would be rented out or given under hire-purchase schemes.
Eqrtpment   uld also be leased out to cooperatives or private contractors
for work on farmers' fields. BPMU would run short training programs for
power t*'}ler operators and also provide maintenance facilities.  An arrange-
ment b-tweer BPMU and the contractors should ensure the following arrange-
,nts:



ANNEX 4
Page 15
- ownership of the tiller and basic implements will remain
with BPMU for the life of the project, then the owner-
ship will automatically be transferred;
- operators of the tillers must undergo training organized
by BPMU; they must be able to read and write;
- tillers must be presented at the project's workshop for
inspection and repair regularly;
- repair must be paid at cost covering prices by the
contractor;
- prices which the contractors are allowed to charge to
the farmers will be fixed by BPMU; and
- in addition to repair costs the contractor will pay an
amount of 20% of the purchase value of the tiller
in trust to BPMU per year.
D. MARKETING SYSTEM
49.       Improvements under the project would aim at increasing producer prices
by decreasing the present margins between fixed LPMC prices and prices actually
obtained by farmers. Under the conditions prevailing in the area this can be
achieved through a four-pronged strategy:
a.   establishment of collection points where farmers are
paid the full LPMC prices;
b.   introduction of more efficient means of farm-to-market
transport;
c.   quality improvement incentives and controls; and
d.   better market information for the farmers.
Creation of Marketing Center Collection Points
50.       In general, the following institutional set-up for produce
marketing is foreseen under the project:



ANNEX 4
Page 16
- LPMC as ultimate purchaser would have a complete
outstation in the project area;
- cooperatives would act as licensed LPMC agents;
- subagents would be directly commissioned to the
cooperatives; and
- additional produce collection points would be
established in market towns.
51.       LPMC outstation in Gbarnga should become the focal point and the
backbone of all marketing operations in the area. For this purpose, the
small warehouse existing at present would be developed into a full-fledged
outstation such as the one in Voinjama in the Upper Lofa area. The basic
principle underlying operation of the outstation in Gbarnga is that it
would offer the full LPMC fixed prices without deductions for all products,
and then the station would act as a price regulator which in itself would
have a positive effect on the level of producer prices in the area.
52.       The pattern of cooperation between LPMC and the project
would depend in the early stages on the phasing of the cooperative struc-
tures -- i.e., whether the village level societies or the cooperatives
are established first. In the case of the former, the societies would
arrange for transportation of their produce through BPMU. In the event
that LPMC does immediately develop the Gbarnga station into a full-service
agency, BPMU would accumulate the produce in rented warehouses until
enough is available for bulk transport to LPMC in Monrovia. BPMU would be
reimbursed by LPMC for all transport costs.
53.       Where cooperatives are established, they would first act as LBAs
and purchase produce directly from the farmers, either directly at the co-
op door or in established market towns. The cooperatives, through BPMU,
would then arrange for transport to LPMC in Gbarnga or Monrovia, if quantities
merit. The cooperatives would be reimbursed for transportation costs by
LPMC.
54.       Farmers would be advised of their credit obligations and provided
with sacks shortly before harvest. After harvest the farmers would bring
the produce to pre-established market centers. There they would be met by
commissioned subagents of the cooperatives, accompanied by a co-op/credit
extension aide. The subagent would receive the produce and be responsible
for its transport to the cooperatives (or to BPMU in the early stages before
the cooperatives are established).
55.       The crop officers would record the amount of produce from each
farmer and calculate its value. This amount would be registered in the
books of the cooperative, village society, and in the farmer's credit book.
When the value of the produce delivered surpasses the amount owed by the



ANNEX 4
Page 17
farmer, he would be paid off in cash by the aide. In the early stages of
project development, this process should be closely supervised by the
Cooperative Field Officers (manager and accountant of the cooperatives)
in order to assure that both the farmer and cooperatives receive correct
compensation for their efforts.
Farm to Market Transport
56.       With increasing production, the transport constraint may become
even more pressing, as transport facilities in the area may not expand
accordingly. During the initial phase of the project, the newly establ-
ished cooperatives and/or village societies would refrain from under-
taking extensive transportation operations and instead would use BPMU
transportation which would consist of several tractors with trailers.
These tractors would be available to the cooperatives and/or village
societies for the transport of produce from the farms and market towns to
the cooperative warehouses and to LPMC outstation in Gbarnga. The
commissioned subagents and the extension aides would travel with these
transport units. Nevertheless, after about the first year of project
activity, transportation requirements would surpass BPMU's ability to
provide it. At that time it is expected that the commissions earned by
the cooperatives on the marketing of produce would be sufficient to pay
for transportation on the commercial market.
Quality Improvement and Controls
57.       It is impossible that a comprehensive system of grading and
quality control can be set up in the area within a short period. How-
ever, at the cooperative level, existing regulations concerning moisture
and foreign materials content would be enforced. LPMC would establish
a price differential between fermented and sundried cocoa. As a further
contribution to quality improvement, LPMC would fix its prices for cherry
and clean coffee in such a way that farmers are encouraged to deliver
their coffee in the form of cherries, for processing in LPMC's mill.
Three produce inspectors would be added to the Cooperative/Commercial
Division. Their function would be as much educational as supervisory,
and they would be charged with setting quality standards for project
produce, informing farmers as to these standards and how to meet them,
and enforcing the standards.
Additional Considerations
Marketing Produce Restrictions
58.       It was previously stated that non-members should not receive
cooperative services. Nevertheless, it would be greatly beneficial
to the cooperatives, both financially and in terms of experience gained,
to be able to accept produce from any farmer in the project area. Given



ANNEX 4
Page 18
the fact that most of the tree crops provided for under the project will
not come into production until after BPMU has left the area, the ex-
clusion of non-member produce (particularly coffee, cocoa, and palm
kernels) would mean that the cooperatives would not have the benefit
of supervision in the marketing of their most important crops, and would
lose a valuable cash flow in their early years. Consequently, while
only members would receive inputs on credit, cash sales would be allowed
for any intending farmer and marketing services would be available to
all farmers.
Minor Equipment Requirements
59.       It is estimated that in order for the cooperatives to maintain
adequate weight and quality standards they should be provided with scales
and moisture meters. Four of these units per cooperative should be suf-
ficient, resulting in a total of 24 units. Additionally, a safe would
be needed by each cooperative in order to secure the cash necessary to
pay for produce. Approximately 200,000 20-kilo capacity sacks should also
be made available to the cooperatives to aid in the head-carrying and
transport of produce.



ANNEX 4
Table I
-        0-4  -* 00               0     00      010  0
1.       0N00                   0      00  0  r.1 C  0- .4
*                              '0  00001000
a                                0           0   10       .4
ON  00 ON          I    N      NO  0  010  0  0
S.                          I  .                 I.
*        ON  0  00         II    0      ON  0  0'    4
a        00  0  00          j    N      40  4  - C  -  0
0        "0  0   0           j    0     '-40  0   10   
00  N  .4N       p.!  I N      00  0  0  0  0
*                                        0
0.4  N  NO         j    0      00  0  -  0
ON N NO            I  0   000 CNN
I                            2
00             0  000000 0
   -                   0       0  0
ON  0  00                      ON  C  0  .4
00  N  00               0      .40  .4  -  0  0  N
-40  N   N              N      00  0             -
00 - N                  0  OoIoOIOoo
I.                 -              .      -1      p     -0.
*        00  0  N                0      001    0' 0  OSO
0        04000                   0      00 I 0  -j 0  0  N
lip
O        00  .4                           010   10  4  0
ON .' 00                0  00001004
*    40040   II I 0  0000100 0
a        00  0 00                 0     00  0  04 0  0  0
0        00  .4   0               4       0  0      0
ON   0 00               0      001  0  Oj 0  0  0
.fl 40      ii   p 0      0014  014  0  N
00  0   0               0      00 I 0   I 0  0  .4
0                   4...  000                0'              I
c.        I.        00  4 04           I  p        00, 0  0  0  0  0
-                                             .       '      I
44  0' 00'              0      001
-40  0    0             0       0? 0      0  0' 0
Sc                  O0I4Ofl$                          I
4014 010   Al                  N01401000
001  0   Ic--      J    I-.    NO I 0   P0  0  0
]              -    .10
00  -  010              0      00  N  0  0  0  0
51-4            4  -O 00000
al                  oN  0  oJ 0              0     ON  0  N  0  0
I       00  0    0               0     40  0      0  0  0
8                   001010                   0  ON140000
ONloolo          PP  P  0      0010  0  0  4  0
21                 .2
0010.04                 4  00I00000
00  0  04               0      0010  010  0
4   I4OZIN 01000
000010                  0      0-410  01 N  P.4 0
44  0   10              0      -4410   10-oN
001  0  OJo     00  0  o       00  0  0  0  o
0  010     0.4] 0  0      ON  0  0  N  0  0
00  0  00     001     0      00
0        ON  0   4       0   0' 4       ON  -      0  0  N
001  0  00      00  N  o       00  0  N  0  o  0        @2
001000   NO 4 0  000 oN.40
001000          NO  0  0       NO  0  N  0  0  4        .4
0     0   0  0       ON
00000  0010 4 0000000
oa' o  opn      o.2  0         00  0  0  o 0  0
101        010 40  0  40  40  0  0      40  0  0  0 o  0
0   014  0   00
0     ON  0  0       -4Oj 0  0  N  N  0        0'
o     oo  0  p.    ool 0  o  0  -* 0
010 to  .100   440  IONN   c
'0 0 00  0 4 0  040000
1                             0
01                4
01  .4   0                              *0
I         I.    Ca         .4  ..-.  .  .4
IP      4               cOg            @2311.          cab-c
0.-I oaa  00 oa aIaLs                              a    ccg
.4  a I cc  .   0     cc  4      .4  cc         S
C Cl 00 0 -0 .4 00 0 0 4 00 0 0 * C Cc a
0 a, a a.4a CoatIa 0 aa .4 0 a a @2 0cc-C.,
1.1                j              .4               (4        01010141
4  C            a      aa  0  0 C  @20             a. 0  cC pO  C  00  0  5-c @2 00
>0  .4  Gpo  a  a  .4         ca  C  0  .4 0  -      ooo.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads
A.   Background
1.        Liberia's transport system consists of about 7,250 km of roads,
480 km of privately owned railways, four seaports, and five airports of which
two provide international service. Roads are the most important means of
transportation in Liberia. Only iron ore is transported on private railway
lines of the mines, coastal transport is negligible and river transport is
practically non-existent. Thus all transport of goods and people from the
hinterland to the seaports and from villages to urban areas (and vice versa)2
takes place by road. With an average road density of 1 km of road per 18 Km,
the present road system is quite insufficient and large areas of the country
have no road access.
2.        The road network in the project area consists of about 498 km of
roads. A short section of the private railway line from the mines also
runs through the project area. Of the total of 498 km approximately 146 km
are classified as primary roads, 220 km as all-weather secondary roads and
132 km as dry-weather farm-to-market roads. All these roads have inadequate
surfaces with difficult grades and hazardous horizontal and vertical sight
distances. The secondary roads have grades exceeding 7% and in some cases
over 10%. Farm-to-market roads have grades varying between 12%-20% and very
unsatisfactory horizontal and vertical alignments as most were constructed
on old established footpaths or trails without a proper survey. In addi-
tion there is a total lack of proper maintenance. Primary and secondary
roads are partially maintained to permit all-weather traffic throughout the
year, but farm-to-market roads receive practically no maintenance and con-
sequently are not always useable during the rainy season.
3.        The Government's Second Five-Year Road Maintenance and Development
Program provides for restoration of the existing primary and secondary roads
to an acceptable level of maintenance as well as for the construction of new
primary and secondary roads. Though slightly behind schedule, the program
is proceeding satisfactorily. Within the project area, upgrading work has
already begun on the primary road from Totota to Gbarnga. By 1978, this road
will have a two-lane bituminous concrete pavement, complete with shoulders
and grades permitting safe speeds up to 80 km/hr. The secondary road network
has been scheduled for upgrading and planned routine maintenance on an annual
basis.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
B.   Project Proposal
4.        In the project area, there is one km of road for every 18 Km of
area on the average. Only 45% of the population has direct access to a road
and this ratio is only slightly increased to 56% if one includes those who
live within about 2 km of the road. In comparison 78% of the population in
the Lofa county are within 2 km of a road. While it is not possible to
determine exactly the desirable density of any future road network in the
project area, it is reasonable to assume that successful implementation of the
proposed project would require proper maintenance of the existing roads and
construction of new farm-to-market feeder roads to make inaccessible areas
more accessible. The project would therefore construct 170 km of new farm-
to-market roads, (thereby extending the existing network by about 34%),
recondition/upgrade about 130 km of farm-to-market roads and maintain all
farm-to-market roads in the project area.
5.        New Farm-to-Market Road Construction.  The alignment for the
170 km of new road construction within the area would be determined in detail
during project implementation in coordination with the MPW planning division
and according to the needs and requirements of the project. No detailed
engineering survey or design work would be made for these roads, although the
responsible MPW road engineer would locate the alignments in such a way that
they warrant optimum drainage conditions, soils conditions and laterite soils
deposits. Road design standards for the new construction and the recondition-
ing of existing farm-to-market roads have been developed in collaboration
with the MPW. Selection of standards took into consideration expected traffic
levels, annual volumes of goods to be transported, type of vehicles, type of
terrain crossed, and availability of road-building materials. The recommended
road design standards for the farm-to-market road network is shown on Table
A.
6.        Reconditioning of Existing Farm-to-Market Roads.  In addition to the
170 km of new road construction in the area, the existing 130 km of farm-to-
market roads require reconditioning of both their cross-section and their
drainage structures to bring them up to the desired standards and make them
accessible all year round. After reconditioning the typical cross-section of
the roadway would be as shown in Table 1.
7.        Maintenance of Farm-to-Market Roads.  After the first year of new
construction and reconditioning, maintenance operations on a regular basis
would begin on about 180 km of farm-to-market roads. The schedule for con-
struction, reconditioning, and maintenance is shown on Table 2.
8.        Organization.  The Ministry of Public Works would have the primary
responsibility for the construction, reconditioning, and maintenance of the
farm-to-market roads within the project area. Funding for the necessary
equipment and a portion of the operating expenses is covered within the loan.
Because of the required coordination between road improvement activities and
the agricultural development activities of the project, the following organi-
zational structure would be adopted:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(a)  separate units from the MPW's Bureau of Construction and
Bureau of Operations would be formed to manage and operate
the equipment units under the "force account" method. The
Bureau of Construction unit would be responsible for new
construction of farm-to-market roads, and the Bureau of
Operations would be responsible for reconditioning and main-
tenance. Each unit would be supervised by a fully qualified
and experienced foreman, who would be responsible to the
resident engineer of MPW for Bong County. The two units
together would form MPW feeder road unit for Bong County;
(b) during the life of the project, the equipment units would be
separated into integral and identifiable units, operating
only within the project area for the purpose for which they
were procured 1/. At the end of the project, the maintenance
unit would be retained in Bong County to continue maintenance
on the farm-to-market roads within the project area or trans-
ferred to other rural development projects developed subse-
quent to this project;
(c) equipment of the feeder road unit would be serviced and main-
tained by MPW district workshop at Wainsue, near Gbarnga;
(d) construction, reconditioning, and maintenance priorities
would be established by BPMU; and
(e) annual budgets and operating plans would be developed jointly
by BPMU and the resident engineer, and operational budgets
for these units would be identified in the annual MPW budget
as separate budget items.
9.        Costs.  A summmary of the costs for the construction, reconditioning,
and maintenance for the first 3-1/2 years of work is given in Table 3. These
costs are calculated on the basis that operations would be carried out by
force account methods of PMW. There are no cost components such as import
duties, interest, insurance, registration, overhead or profit included in
the calculations. The total costs for the construction of the 170 km, the
reconditioning of 130 km and the maintenance of an average 180 km per year
for 3-1/2 years is US$2,066,000. The costs per kilometer for each type of
activity would be:
1/   The bulk of the equipment in the reconditioning unit would become the
maintenance unit after it has reconditioned existing farm-to-market
roads.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(a) for construction - US$8,080;
(b) for reconditioning - US$2,938; and
(c) for maintenance - US$563.
The construction and reconditioning operational units would have all new
equipment. Since the maintenance unit would not be required until 50 km
of new construction and 130 km of reconditioned roads have been completed,
the equipment and personnel from the reconditioning unit would be trans-
ferred over the maintenance unit. Total equipment costs of US$819,000 for
the two operating units is shown on Table 4. The types and quantities of
equipment and the amount of personnel for each operating unit is given in
Table 5. A yearly expenditure estimate is included in Table 6. It is re-
commended that equipment be procured through sole source procedures. MPW,
through AID Loans 020 and 023, purchased large quantities of the type and
size equipment which would be used on this project. The equipment of U.S.
origin was purchased on the basis of competitive bidding and in accordance
with AID guidelines. The quantities of equipment by manufacturer for this
project are small and the maximum dollar amount which could possibly accrue
to any manufacturer is not more than US$350,000. In addition, by pur-
chasing like equipment which already exists in other equipment spreads used
by MPW, savings are realized from the availability of spare parts and service
facilities.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
RECOMMENDED ROAD DESIGN STAIDARDS
FARM-TO-MARKET ROAD
t 10'_0"    -                 l
Select aterite
material only
vlere n eessary
C4%  _/e
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION
Design Speed - MPH                              25 - 30
Pavement - min. thickness                       2 - 3"  laterite
Width of Roadway (including shoulders)          20'-0"
Maximum Grades                                  12%
Minimum Curvre Radius (ft)                      250
Right-of-Way Clearing - ft.                     50
Drainage - (Galv. metal pipe)                   CMP



ANNEX 5
Table 2
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Time Schedule for Construction, Reconditioning and Maintenance
Farm-to-Market Roads
I   'I      '   ~     ~    ~~~I  I 
1st Year    2nd Year I 3rd Yearl 4th Year   5th Yearl 6th Year!
Equipment Procurement    I           I           I                                          I
New Construction -        I          I          4 km       48 km      4  km     21 km
170 km                                                                I
6 m Roadway         I          I
Single Lane -
Timber Bridge                       I                           I
CMP Culvers                    I
I          I         1310  kmI                          II
Recondition - 130 km     I                                  I               I
6 m - Roadway      I
Maintenance - 540 km                                       1 78 km   2A5 km    1J7 km
(Total)                           I                      I               I
6 m Roadway         I                                            I          I
I  .  l    l          l          l          l          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANNEX 5
Table 3
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of New Construction, Reconditioning and Maintenance Costs
During First 3-1/2 Years
Farm-to-Market Roads
Unit Cost - $
ITEM                 Km              (per km)                TOTAL COST - $
Construction              170                 8,030                   1,365,000
Reconditioning            130                 2,938                      382,000
Maintenance               540                   563                      304,000
TOTAL                                                                 2,051,000



ANNEX 5
Table 4
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment List and Costs - CIF Monrovia for New Construction,
Reconditioning and Maintenance Units
New Cons-          Recondi-
Item                        truction           tioning             Maintenance
1   D8 BuIldozer              $  142,800.                -
2   D6 Bulldozer          (1)    72,100.    (1)    72,100.                   *
2   12E Motor Grader       (2)   112,000.                -
1   120G Motor Grader                -               52,000.                 *
2   Pneu. Compactor        (1)    20,000.    (1)    20,000.                  *
2   Wheel Loaders          (1)    32,000.    (1)    32,000.                  *
1   Backhoe                       74,000.                -
1   Tractor/Trailer               60,000                 **                 **
4   Dump truck - 6 cu.yd (2)    30,000.    (2)    30,000.                    *
2   Water Tankers          (1)    18,000.     (1)    18,000.                 *
2   Pickups - 3/4 t        (1)     6,000.    (1)      6,000.                 *
2   Vehicles - 4 WD        (1)     8,500.    (1)       8,500.                *
2   Water Pumps            (1)     2,500.    (1)      2.500                  *
Subtotal                         577,900.           241,100.
GRAND TOTAL                                819,000
*   Equipment for maintenance unit will come from reconditioning unit.
** Tractor/Trailer unit will also be used for hauling reconditioning
or maintenance equipment.



ANNEX 5
Table 5
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment and Personnel Requirements
Farm-to-Market Roads
OPERATING UNITS:
Reconditioning
-New Construction                  -Existing Roads              - Maintenance*
1  D8 Bulldozer                   1  D6 Bulldozer             1  120G Motor Grader
1  D6 Bulldozer                   1  120 Motor Grader         1  Pneu. Compactor
2  12E Motor Grader               1  Pneu. Compactor          1  Water Tanker
1 Wheel Loader                    1 Wheel Loader              1  Dump Truck
1  Pneu. Compactor                2  Dump Trucks - 6 cu.yd  1  Pickup - 3/4 t
1  Backhoe                        1 Water Tanker              1  Vehicle - 4 WD
1  Tractor/Trailer Unit           1  Pickup - 3.4 t           1 Water Pump
2  Dump Trucks - 6 cu.yd          1  Vehicle
1 Water Tanker                    1 Water Pump
1  Pickup - 4 WD                  2  Chain Saws
1 Vehicle - 4 WD
1 Water Pump
3 Chairn Saws
1 Mobile Radio Unit
45 Personnel (Engineer            49 Personnel (Foremen,    32 Personnel (Foremen
Foremen, Operators,               Operators, Craftsmen,       Operators, Crafts-
Craftsmen,and Laborers)           and Laborers)               men, and Laborers)
Construction Unit produc-         Reconditioning Unit pro-  Maintenance Unit pro-
tion capacity - 3/4 mile/         duction capacity 2 miles/ duction capacity - 3
week or 30 miles/year.            week or 80 miles/year.    miles/week or 120 miles/
year.
*   Maintenance Unit will receive all equipment and personnel requirements
from Reconditioning Unit. Maintenance operations will start after
reconditioning unit's work is completed.
Based on maintaining 105 miles of new road's construction and 80 miles
reconditioned road over a 3-year period.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Services in the Project Areas
Background
1.        GOL allocates a little over 9% of its total expenditures for
health services. The ratio of doctors and para-medical staff to population
are about 1:10,000 and 1:1,000, respectively. There is significant imbalance
between urban and rural health services with nearly 75% of Government employed
physicians working in and around Monrovia. Government hospitals and clinics
in rural areas are in poor condition, lacking minimum facilities, supplies
and staff. In the rural areas the ratio between doctors, hospitals, and
hospital beds to population are about 1:22,000, 1:54,000 and 1:1,200 respec-
tively. The result of these regional imbalances in health services are
manifested in the fact that death rates, including infant mortality, in rural
areas are about 1.5 times higher than those in the urban areas.
2.        The common health problems in the project area are directly related
to low income, poverty, unsanitary environment, malnutrition and dietary in-
sufficiency, lack of health education, and inadequate disease prevention
programs. The population is suceptible to various infectious diseases common
to tropical Africa (malaria, measles, diarrhea, dysentery, pneumonia, neonatal
tetanus, hookworms and other intestinal parasites), the outcome of which often
is fatal due to lack of curative medical services. Apart from these common
infectious diseases, leprosy, onchocerciasis and schistosomiasis are endemic
to the area. Incidence of oncho have been found in certain parts of Lofa
County, but their consequences have not been serious (such as blindness and
severe dermatoses). However, the Liberian Research Unit of the Tropical
Institute of Hamburg, Germany, has been undertaking active research and sur-
veillance of this disease in the project area. The proposed project is most
unlikely to activate and itensify the causes of this infection.
Schistosomiasis in the Project Area
3.        From all the various sources it emerges that urinary as well as
intestinal schistosomiasis is widespread in the project area and that many
people are suffering from the disease. Analysis of data from laboratory
tests recorded in 1975 indicates a 17.6% incidence of "schistosomiasis
haemabilm" in urine samples and a 4.5% occurence of "schistosomiasis Mansoni"
in stools.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Phebe Hospital Laboratory Tests - 1975
Urine                         Stool
Number      Number          Number         Number
Month             of tests    Positive        of tests       Positive
January               836       135              800           53
February              988       233              960           57
March                 568         89             988           68
April               1,110        148             909           29
May                   909         95              -            37
June                1,210       107              909           42
July                1,025       150            1,385           44
August                923        92              902           33
September             913        95            1,716           47
October               761       508              986           66
November              711        142           1,018           35
December              842        107             794           43
Total            10,796    1,901 (17.6%)  11,367           517 (4.5%)
Swamp Rice Production and Schistosomiasis
4.        The production of swamp rice in irrigated fields causes on the
one hand an increase of the waters suitable for the breeding of the vector
snails, on the other hand, once these waters are colonized by the snails,
the work in the irrigated fields will considerably enhance the contact
between man and the cercariae-shedding snails. This may alter the present
schistosomiasis situation with regard to the following factors:
-    the percentage of infected people may increase;
-    the intensity of infection may increase, when more
people acquire much higher worm infestation and this
may result in a conversion from inapparent infection
to manifest disease in many people, and to a further
reduction of the working capacity of the population
concerned;
-    the large number of worms carried by the population
means an increase of the numbers of worm eggs
excreted with urine and faeces. Thus more snails
will become infected, stimulating a vicious circle
of increasing transmission.
As a consequence, with the considerable expansion of swamp rice production
in the project area, a rise in the prevalence of the infection and an increase
of the morbidity caused by schistosomiasis is not improbable. However, it must



ANNEX 6
Page 3
be clearly stated that whether an increase really will occur, to which degree
and how soon it will develop cannot be forecast.
5.        However, given the knowledge that (1) there already exists a sig-
nificant infection of schistosomiasis in the project area, and (2) that the
project may increase it, and given the desire not to introduce a "careless
technology" in the haste to promote higher productivity, constant and care-
ful vigilance is therefore essential during the project implementation period.
These same considerations lead to the setting up of a schistosomiasis sur-
veillance unit under Credit 577-LBR (Lofa County Agricultural Development
Project). This project would strengthen that unit with more personnel and
logistic support so that the unit would be able to monitor for the Bong
Project area as well. The terms of reference of the unit would be the same
as detailed in Annex 2 of Report No. 744a-LBR. However, administratively it
will now be under the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and a greater
degree of cooperation will be sought with the Liberian Institute of Biomedical
Research. The unit will function as a separate entity within the Ministry
of Health; it would have its own budget and personnel management but will
work in close liaison with the Bong and Lofa Project Management Units. The
field unit in Bong will be attached to the Phebe Hospital and the one in
Lofa will be with the Voinjama Hospital.
6.        No single ideal method for the control of the disease or of the
infection is yet available. Moreover, control activities must be maintained
consistently for many years to produce satisfactory results and such activi-
ties cannot be initiated until adequate baseline epidemiological data are
available. Hopefully, the proposed surveillance unit would be able to collect
the required baseline data, undertake limited field testing of vector control
techniques and develop specific recommendations for control measures by the
Government.
Rural Water Supply
7.        Due to widespread incidence of water-borne disease in rural and
semi-urban areas, GOL wishes to establish rural water supply and sewerage
system as a component of its overall rural development programs. Through
bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany investigations,
planning and feasibility studies were completed in six county towns for the
supply of treated piped water, and bids have been invited from contractors
for implementing three such schemes, one of which will be at Gbarnga.
Apart from this, a well-drilling program was conducted in the rural areas
with UNDP assistance (LIR/73/021) and another UNDP/WHO study has recently
been started to identify pilot projects in four rural communities. However,
it is unlikely that in the near future any significant undertaking for the
improvement of rural water supply will be forthcoming (the Five-Year National
Development Plan does not have any provision). A rural water supply pro-
gram of any significant scale is beyond the scope of this project, but BPMU
will appraise the situation in the project area and encourage local inhab-
itants to improve the water supply through wells constructed on a self
help basis. BPMU would work in close consultation with the Project Advisory
Committee and local health authorities and, where necessary, supply materials
and other assistance for well construction.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management
Background
1.        The Ministries of Local Government, Action for Development and
Progress, Agriculture and Public Works are agencies which are directly or
indirectly involved in rural development activity in Bong County. The
Ministries of Finance, Lands and Mines, and the Liberian Institute of
Public Administration provide support services, while both the Ministries
of Health and of Education pursue activities which encourage rural
development.
2.        At the county level, an attempt is made to coordinate the work of
the various ministries by ad-hoc meetings of the consultative staff of the
county superintendent, the president's representative within the county,
who works through the Ministry of Local Government. His own consultants and
administrative staff (including an assistant superintendent for rural develop-
ment), and the district commissioners report directly to him.
3.        Fiscal management is highly centralized.  Budgetary allocations
for all ministries emenate from Monrovia, and all purchase requisitions are
forwarded to Monrovia for approval and action. Ministry of Finance pay-
masters stationed in county headquarters make monthly payroll disbursements.
4.        The Ministry of Agriculture bears responsibility for the planning
and implementation of agricultural development programs in Liberia. It falls
under the overall direction, supervision and control of a Minister, supported
by a Deputy Minister. Operationally, it consists of five bureaus (adminis-
tration, agriculture, forestry, ad-hoc projects, and planning) each headed
by an Assistant Minister. Smallholder farm support services (extension,
credit, marketing, etc.) for field crops are entrusted to the Assistant
Minister of Agriculture; a county agent, supported by other field staff,
organizes field activities in each of the nine counties. The Assistant Minister
for ad-hoc projects provides smallholder support services for cocoa, coffee,
oil palm through the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC) and for
rubber, through the rubber advisory service. The Deputy Minister directly
controls the Central Agriculture Experiment Station (CAES) at Suakoko, which
conducts public sector agricultural research (field crops, rubber, livestock).



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        Budgetary allocations for the Ministry of Agriculture have in-
creased, both relatively and absolutely since 1971. However, effectiveness
and impact of the Ministry has been limited due to low standards of the
field staff as well as poor management of available resources. The Ministry's
budget is primarily for personnel and provides minimal logistic support
for the field staff.
6.        Proposed Proiect Organization.  In view of the complexity and
intensity of the project, it is obvious that its organization requires mea-
sures which themselves must include some degree of complexity and innovation.
It is therefore proposed to:
-    entrust the implementation to a special project
administration within the Ministry of Agriculture
to be called the Bong Project Management Unit
(BPMU), with headquarters at Suakoko;
-    make this Project Management Unit (BPMU) solely
responsible for a number of farm support measures
in the whole project area;
-    make the BPMU responsible to a Project Steering
Committee, the chairman of which would be the
Minister of Agriculture; and
-    give the BPMU a largely independent status within
the Government sector.
7.        Three main reasons favor this organizational set-up.  First, the
integrated nature of the project and tight control for at least the core of
project measures require a single agency in charge instead of the responsi-
bility being distributed among various agencies. Second, a separate project
administration outside ministerial structure would be less hampered by
bureaucratic procedures and delays and would thus be more effective in
handling a complex project. And third, in view of the intensity of the
development measures and the necessary adaptation of these measures to the
requirements of the region, a specially created regional project administra-
tion would be more suitable than a national body.
8.        BPMU established according to these lines would be a Government
agency; however, it would be structured and authorized to function as a
commercial enterprise and would be free from regular Government Civil
Service and budgetary regulations. The desirable status for the BPMU
could be described as a balance between the freedom of action necessary
for the efficient running of the project and the integration into the
Government sector by means of control in general policy matters.
9.        The independence of the project would be achieved primarily in
that it would have its own management, financial control and recruitment



ANNEX 7
Page 3
and procurement procedures. Management would be on the project site and
would be in charge of the daily operations. All project personnel would be
responsible to the project manager. They would either be transferred to the
project from the Ministry of Agriculture with the approval of the project
manager or the project would hire them directly.
10.       The necessary integration of the project into the overall institu-
tional system would be achieved by means of the Project Steering Committee
at the national level, the Project Consultative Committee at the county level
and development councils at the local level, (the latter would be informal
rather than formal bodies). The internal organization of the project would
thus be characterized by the interplay of these two committees and the
Project Management Unit.
11.       Management would be responsible to the Project Steering Committee.
The terms of reference of the Lofa County Project Steering Committee would
be amended to include the implementation of the Bong Project. Supervision
would entail determination of the general policy guidelines and the exer-
cising of budgetary control. The Project Steering Committee would approve the
annual project budget and would coordinate the project activities with overall
Government policy and would mobilize the cooperation of other Government
agencies. The committee would meet several times a year as-required.
12.       The Project Consultative Committee would act as an advisory body
to the project management and would coordinate the activities of BPMU with
those of other institutions in the project area. It would meet at least
quarterly and its members would include:
-    Superintendent, Bong County (Chairman);
-    Assistant County Superintendent, Bong County;
-    Project Manager;
-    Deputy Project Manager (Executive Secretary);
-    Paramount chiefs;
-    Local representatives of the Ministries of:
Agriculture (county agent)
Education (county supervisor of schools)
Health (medical director of county hospital)
Public Works (resident engineer).
Lands and Mines (land commissioner)
-    Cooperative chairmen.
13.       BPMU would have three functions :  (1) organization and coor-
dination of farm-support measures; (2) planning and evaluation of project
activities; and (3) guidance and strengthening of rural institutions (coopera-
tives).



ANNEX 7
Page 4
14.       BPMU itself would take over the organization of all those support
measures for which there are no efficient institutions available and where
tight coordination and competent management is vital. Activities belonging
to this category are: (1) organization and management of an agricultural ex-
tension service; (2) assistance to farmers in swamp reclamation and land
registration; and (3) administration of a revolving credit fund for the supply
of credit to the farmers via the cooperatives. BPMU would coordinate the
activities of the existing institutions as well as those proposed as support
services, and integrate them into the project. This would involve:
-    road construction and maintenance (responsible
agency: Ministry of Public Works);
-    input supply (responsible agencies:  LPMC, co-
operatives);
-    produce marketing (responsible agencies:  co-
operatives and LPMC);
-    credit distribution (responsible agencies:  co-
operatives); and
-    experimentation (responsible agency:  CAES).
BPMU will also service its own needs through staff training (with LIPA
and AETC assistance), fiscal management and vehicle maintenance.
15.       Internal Organization of BPMU.  The project manager would be the
head of the unit, and would be assisted by a deputy project manager. BPMU
would have five divisions: Administration and Personnel, Agricultural Ser-
vices, Cooperative and Credit Services, Training and Finance. The Agricul-
tural Services Division would have three sections: Extension and Experimen-
tation (responsible for technical advice on tree and field crop production,
seed multiplication, seedling production, field experimentation), Land De-
velopment (land clearing, farm equipment, hire service, swamp development,
irrigation and water control), and Survey and Registration (topographic and
soil surveys, land use planning, demarcation and measurement of farms, and
assistance in land registration). The Cooperative and Credit Services Divi-
sion would have the responsibility for organizing the delivery system for
farm inputs and credit and would have three sections: Cooperatives (devel-
opment, guidance and strengthening of cooperatives), Credit (distribution
and recovery of smallholder credit) and Commercial Services (procurement
and distribution of inputs and assistance in crop marketing).
16.       The roads program and schistosomiasis surveillance would be imple-
mented through the Feeder Road Unit and Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit to
be established within the Ministries of Public Works and of Health respectively
(see Annexes 5 and 6).



ANNEX 7
Page 5
17.       Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.  Under the Lofa County Agricultural
Development Project a small project evaluation and planning unit has been
established within the Project Management Unit. Monitoring and evaluation
of large rural development projects can be costly in scarce resources, par-
ticularly in the human talent to collect and analyze large amounts of data.
Thus, creation of monitoring units for each separate project may be wasteful
and inefficient. It is therefore proposed that the monitoring and evaluation
of both Lofa and Bong (and any future) projects be handled as one operation.
It would be directly responsible to the Minister of Agriculture (through
the PSC) and would work in close liaison with the Economic Planning and
Evaluation Division of the Ministry. The overall purpose of the monitoring/
evaluation operation would be to identify and measure project results, and to
point the way to specific recommendations in project approach, priorities or
implementations which would improve both subsequent project design and current
project performance.
18.       Staff Selection and Job Description.  Because of the complexities
inherent in a smallholder development project, successful implementation re-
quires project staff with high levels of managerial efficiency, technical com-
petence, innovativeness and above all, high commitment to project clientele -
the small farmers. Liberia's problem of trained manpower is both a qualita-
tive as well as a quantitative one. Where possible, BPMU positions would be
filled by qualified and experienced Liberians, as this would ensure staffing
continuity and institutionalization of the program, but a number of the senior
key positions will have to be filled through international recruitment. The
project, therefore, would provide for international recruitment of a Project
Manager, Managers of Finance, Agricultural Services, Training and Cooperative/
Credit Services Divisions, a swamp development officer and a land use planning
officer. Funds for international recruitment of the Director of Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit and the Scbistosomiasis Surveillance Unit have been
provided under Credit 577-LBR. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that these positions, their deputies and other senior technical posts would be
filled by persons having experience, qualifications and terms and conditions
of services satisfactory to the Bank. To avoid delays in the start of the
project, GOL has agreed to appoint the Project Manager and Managers of the
Finance and Agricultural Services Divisions of BPMU prior to Board presenta-
tion. Retroactive financing for this purpose will be provided.
19.       As the local manpower pool is rather limited, even with substantial
salaries and benefits, the possibility of the project settling for less than
outstanding Liberian personnel is not unlikely. Moreover, a project staff
position may be viewed by local professionals as a stepping stone offering
good salaries and a springboard for career and financial advancement. To
ensure that sufficient staff are made available, an assurance will be obtained
at negotiations that project staff recruitment would be given priority and
that once appointed, an officer would not be transferred unless approved by
BPMU. Job descriptions are in Annex 7, Appendix 1.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
20.       Training.  Liberia does not have a pool of trained manpower, par-
ticularly at intermediate and lower level technical staff, nor does it have
an institutional set up capable of turning out trained personnel for the
immediate needs of the project. Substantial staff training would be provided
under the Lofa Project; however, it is too early for the Bong Project to draw
on those trained personnel as they will not be released until about 1980
(see para 6.11, Report 744a-LBR). BPMU would absorb the county extension
staff in the present area. The project would provide training facilities
for all extension, cooperative and credit field staff recruited for BPMU.
In view of the general lack of knowledge and expertise in Liberia on coffee
and cocoa development selected Liberian staff would be sent to the Ivory Coast
and Ghana for short specialized training. Additionally, senior Liberian tech-
nical and managerial staff would be trained in project management and rural
development administration.
21.       The manager of the Training Division would be responsible for devel-
oping and implementing the training program. The program would consist of
short formal courses interspersed with practical field training. The curricula
would focus on improving the technical knowledge of the staff, and also on the
development of motivation and dedication of these staff. Technical training
for the field staff would be provided primarily at the CAES where a training
center financed under 306-LBR is under construction, which will be expanded
under this project. Close cooperation would be obtained from the AETC and
WARDA. After initial training field staff would undergo refresher training at
suitable intervals. Management training would be provided by the staff of
the Liberian Institute for Public Administration. Furthermore, all expatriate
staff would have the explicit responsibility of training their Liberian
counterparts and other senior staff working with them.



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Job Decra
for Project Senior Staff Appointments
I. Project Manager
1.        Experience would be the main criteria for the selection of the pro-
ject manager, although a formal qualification in agriculture would be impor-
tant. At least 10 years experience in agricultural development oriented pro-
jects, preferably in Africa, would be required. A high degree of administra-
tive ability, experience in dealing with high level Government agencies and
previous involvement in extension to smallholder farm communities would all
be necessary. The responsibility of the project manager would be the overall
control of all project activities and coordination of the same with those
of other Government agencies and local authorities.
2.        His duties would include:
a)   Control and accountability for all project funds
with the assistance of the financial controller;
b)   establishment of a cost analysis and record keeping
system which would enable project progress and achieve-
ments to be monitored and would allow a meaningful
evaluation of the project's impact for which he will
be assisted by the director of the Planning and Evalu-
ation Unit;
c)   responsible for project personnel matters with the
assistance of the administrating officer;
d)   coordination of all project activities;
e)   reporting project program to Government through written
reports and through the various project committees;
f)   training project staff.



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
II. Finance Manager
1.        The officer would have a degree in accounting or CPA together
with training and/or experience in business management. He would have
had extensive experience in a senior position in a large public corpora-
tion or commerical company. Knowledge of credit procedures and experience
in working with high-ranking Government officials would be advantageous.
2.        His duties would include:
a)   Managing the Accounts Division and responsible for the
control of project funds;
b)   preparing budgets, cash flows and estimates of expendi-
tures;
c)   establishing accounting procedures to ensure the correct
application of project funds;
d)   assisting the credit manager in establishing an effective
accounting ystem for credit transactions;
e)   maintaining store accounts and project bank accounts
and managing the project's liquidity;
f)   maintaining close working relations with the heads of
other departments, and advising them regarding appro-
priate budgeting and accounting procedures;
g)   liaising with external auditors to ensure timely con-
tract of interim and year end audits; and
h)   training of staff having accounting relation functions
(e.g., credit, stores' accounts) initiating and super-
vising the development of project accounting systems
(credit, stores' accounts) aimed at providing manage-
ment with adequate and timely information, producing
periodic financial and statistical reports.
He would be responsible to the Project Manager.
3.        The project manager would carry out his responsibilities under
the overall policy direction of the Project Steering Committee and would
be directly responsible to the Committee Chairman (The Minister of Agri-
culture).



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
III. Head, Agricultural Services
1.        The officer would be a qualified agriculturalist and would have a
thorough knowledge of tropical tree crop production in particular coffee
and cocoa and preferably some knowledge in rice production. He would have
at least six years experience in smallholder tree crop development and would
be able to advise on the tree crop nurseries, rice seed multiplication and
processing techniques of cocoa and coffee.
2.        His duties would include:
a)   Organizing research through CAES and organizing and over-
seeing the coffee and cocoa seed nurseries, seed gardens
and rice seed multiplication and its distribution with
the assistance of the crop specialists and extension staff
through the senior extension officer;
b)   in liaison with the Land Use Planning and Swamp Develop-
ment officer, selecting and delineating areas suitable
for tree crop and inland swamp development;
c)   organize and ensure the effectiveness of extension ser-
vices among the smallholders particularly in relation
to the technical aspects of tree crop development in-
cluding the drying and fermenting of the crop;
d)   close liaison with the cooperative and credit services
section;
e)   training of extension staff personnel in the technical
aspects of cocoa and coffee development;
He would be directly responsible to the project manager.



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
IV. Swamp Development Officer
1.        The officer would be a professionally qualified irrigation engineer
or a civil engineer with additional experience in land planning and irriga-
tion and water control schemes. He should have at least five years of prac-
tical experience, preferably in Africa, and should have held senior positions
in Government and/or commercial organizations.
2.        His duties would include:
a)   In liaison with the land use planning officer select and
delineate areas suitable for inland swamp rice cultivation;
b)   survey, design, and construction of project drainage
systems, water catchments and irrigation, and water con-
trol facilities for swamp rice cultivation;
c)   gathering of hydrological basic data and conduct hydro-
logical studies and assess which areas may be suitable
for double rice cropping under supplementary irrigation;
d)   training of project staff in topographical surveys and
layout, and construction of irrigation and water control
works.
He would be directly responsible to the Manager, Agricultural Services.



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Page 5
V. Land Use Planning Officer
1.        The Land Use Planning officer would have had formal training in
soil science, agricultural land classification, land use survey techniques,
and aerial photo interpretation. Previous experience in land resource work
and associated land and agricultural development planning would be essen-
tial, and experience in the construction of small water storage works would
be an advantage.
2.        His duties would include:
a)   Reconnaissance land use surveys in order to delineate
areas suitable for crop development;
b)   intensive soil and contour surveys to allow the detailed
planning of farming zones and farm holdings, in parti-
cular with respect to tree crop development and swamp
development for double rice cropping;
c)   land surveys of tree crop holdings for purposes of land
registration
d)   proposals for new farm-to-market roads in project area
in liaison with MPW Planning Department;
e)   training of project staff in land use survey techniques;
f)   if required, to assist in the construction of small water
storage works for supplementary irrigation.
He would be responsible to the Manager, Agricultural Services.



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Page 6
VI. Head Cooperative/Credit Services
1.        Professional qualifications in accounting is desirable but exper-
ience in a managerial capacity in commercial undertakings, preferably in
agro-business, encompassing credit supply and marketing services is more im-
portant; additionally experience in the administration of cooperative/credit
programs in developing countries will be an advantage.
2.        His duties would include:
a)   Establish three sections within the Division:  Cooperatives,
Credit and Marketing delineating the responsibilities and
obligations of each and supervising and controlling their
operations;
b)   to assist LBDI in administering the Revolving Credit Fund
and maintain close liaison with LPMC in the ordering,
handling and delivery of input supplies;
c)   to perform the duties of assistant registrar of coopera-
tives for the Bong County;
d)   in coordination with the Training Division, plan and
execute training programs for division personnel;
e)   in coordination with the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
establish a system of ongoing two-way monitoring and
evaluation for the division; and
f)   maintaining close working relations with the Finance
Manager in establishing an effective accounting system
for credit transactions and with the Head Agricultural
Services to ensure timely input supply arrangements
and assistance in loan recoveries.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.



ANNEX 8
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost
1.       Project costs for the five-year development period are estimated
at US$20.3 million including a foreign exchange component of US$9.8 million
or 48% of total costs.
2.       Estimates are based on prices prevailing during appraisal, updated
where necessary to reflect baseline costs expected at the end of 1976,
including US$0.2 million of identifiable indirect taxes but excluding all
other taxes and duties. Physical contingencies are computed at 5% of baseline
costs. Although this may appear low for the road component (US$1.4 million
or 9% of baseline costs), experience in West Africa projects indicates that
overall 5% is adequate. Price contingencies allow for compounded cost
increases of: (a) vehicles, equipment and farm inputs of 9% in 1977, 8% per
annum from 1978 to 1979, and 7% from 1980 to 1981; (b) buildings, construction
materials for roads and village wells of 13% in 1977, 12% per annum from 1978
to 1979 and 10% in 1980 and 1981; (c) salaries, consultants, technical assist-
ance and local costs of 7% from 1977 onwards. Total contingencies represent
26% of total costs.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost
(US$'000)
Foreign Exchange             Local      % to Total
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3           Year 4         Year 5        Total              7%                Cost          Cost      Project Cost
Buildings                                        372.3         169.7            -               -              -           542.0              70              379.5         162.5             3
Vehicles                                         212.2          47.0            4.7            22.9          201.3         488.1              80              390.4          97.7             2
Furniture and Equipment                          274.0          69.0           22.0              6.0           -            371.0              82             305.8          65.2             2
Salaries & wages                                923.0        1,039.6       1,140.8          1,176.8       1,143.8        5,424.0              29            1,575.0      3,849.0             27
Vehicles - Operating cost                        111.3         140.5          141.7           141.7          141.7         676.9              70              473.9         203.0             3
General services                                 161.0         100.0         100.0            100.0          100.0         561.0               6               36.0         525.0             3
Farm inputs                                       74.3         306.1         600.2            884.2          910.9       2,775.7              51            1,401.8       1,373.9            14
Hired labor                                        -            38.2         156.3            251.9          213.7         660.1               -                -           660.1             3
Road construction,Upgrading & Maintenance   719.0              370.3         452.2            374.5          396.5       2,312.5              72            1,665.8         646.7            11
Research                                           -           150.0         200.0            150.0          150.0         650.C              80              520.0         130.0             3
Consultants                                       30.0          30.0          30.0             30.0           30.0         150.0             100              150.0           -               1
Feasibility study                                  -             -            200.0             -              -           200.0             100              200.0           -               1
Village wells                                      -            25.0          25.0             25.0           25.0         100.0              50               50.0          50.0             -
Development of banking institutions               40.0          40.0          40.0             30.0            -           150.0              60               90.0          60.0             1
Base cost                          2,917.1        2,525.4       3,112.9          3,193.0       3,312.9       15,061.3              48            7,238.2       7,823.1          ( 74)
Contingencies
- Physical                                 145.9          126.3         155.6            159.5         165.6          752.9              48              361.4        391.5             4
- Price                                    297.1         462.1          862,4         1,203.7        1,616.3       4,441.6               48           2,132.0       2,309.6            22
Subtotal                           443.0         588.4        1,018.0         1,363.2        1,781.9        5,194.5              48           2,493.4       2,701.1          ( 26)
Total Project Cost                            3,360.1        3,113.8       4,130.9          4,556.2       5,094.8       20,255.8              48            9,731.6      10,524.2           100
mx
July 29, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                      O



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Buildings
Foreign Exchange         Local
Unit Cost      Year I         Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5         TOTAL        %           Cost         Cost
Housing 1/                                      25.0    (2)  50.0             -             -              -             -            50.0       70            35.0         15.0
Administrative Services
Office space 2,000 sq.ft. 2/                  15.0          15.0           15.0           -              -             -            30.0       70           21.0           9.0
Motor pool      800 sq.ft.                    15.0           6.0            6.0           -              -              -           12.0       70            8.4           3.6
Subtotal                                      21.0          21.0            -             -              -           42.0       70            29.4         12.6
Finance
Housing                                       25.0    (1)  25.0             -             -              -             -            25.0       70           17.5           7.5
Office space 2,000 sq.ft.                     15.0          15.0           15.0           -              -             -            30.0       70           21.0           9.0
Subtotal                                      40.0          15.0            -             -              -           55.0       70            38.5         16.5
Agricultural Services
Housing                                       25.0    (3)  75.0             -             -              -            --            75.0       70           52.5          22.5
Office space 5,500 sq.ft                      15.0          41.3           41.2           -              -             -            82.5       70           57.8          24.7
Small buildings 2,000sq.ft.                   15.0          15.0           15.0           -              -             -            30.0       70           21.0           9.0
Subtotal                                     131.3          56.2            -             -              -          187.5       70           131.3         56.2
Training
Housing                                       25.0   (1)   25.0             -             -              -             -            25.0       70           17.5           7.5
Office space 1,000 sq.ft.                     15.0           7.5            7.5           -              -             -            15.0       70           10.5           4.5
Training Centers - 4,000 sq.ft 3/             15.0          30.0           30.0            -             -              -           60.0       70             4.0         18.0
Subtotal                                      62.5          37.5            -             -              -          100.0       70            70.0         30.0
Cooperative - Credit Services
Housing                                       25.0   (1)   25,0             -              -             -             -            25.0       70            17.5          7.5
Office space 2,000 sq.ft                      15.0          15.0           15.0           -              -              -           30.0       70            21.0          9.0
Subtotal                                      40.0          15.0            -             -              -           55.0       70            38.5          16.5
Planning & Evaluation
Office space 1,500 sq.ft                      15.0          12.5           10.0           -              -             -            22.5       70            15.8          6.7
Schistosomiasis Unit
Office space and laboratory 2,000 sq.ft   15.0              15.0           15.0           -              -             -            30.0       70            21.0          9.0
TOTAL                                                         372.3         169.7            -             -              -          542.0       70           379.5        162.5
1/ Housing provided for expatriates and Deputy Project Manager.
2/ Project Manager alloted 600 sq.ft.; Deputy Project Manager
and Heads of Divisions 200 sq.ft.; all others 100 sq.ft. Cost spread
out during first and second year.
3/ Includes dormitories, classrooms, kitchens, etc.
July 23, 1976.



C      ...o  C     .OC  C       -t     C.4C'0      0.-ac      CCCCC   I-    -4?--,-.  C       C.IOaCN   -      CO  C       Ct.  *fl r-
C      CCC   C       NC4O.t0   N
-*     Can  Co      Ctfl  C     C        C             0      CCCN                     -                 C         N      NO  C
CC   C      CC  C        C      CCan.4    CCCN         CCCCC   C        CCC   C        CCCCC   C        CC  0       Ct.  C  C
CC  C       CC  C        C      aCCa-aCCo   CCCC      CCNCCtC  C        CCC  N        CCNC        C     Cr-. C      af%C  -  0
-  C        -  C              .OC         -          --    -  C         CC  C        0NCo-.  C       -   C       -    C  C
00   0       00  0       0      0000    0000           00000   0         00    0       00000   0         00  o       CC  a  o
CC C    CC C    C   CCCC   CCCC    CCCCC C   CC  C    CCCCC  C   CC C    CC
tiI       00   0       00  0        0      00CC      00CC        000CC   C         0CC   0       CanNON   N        CC  C       CC  C  -
CC  C       C      CC4C    CCC C          CCCa-IC   C       CC    C       CC
-           --  C        -       CC       --          ..4C    -  N      .-Ca-4   C                      CC  C       CC  C  C
*                                                                                                                 -   N       a   C  C
-                          C
C           0       00  0       0      OCCO    CC  C          CO   CC           0CC   0       CCCCN   C        C   C       CC  C  N
CO     CC   C      CC  C        C      CN.-aC    CC.0         CCCOC   C         CCC  C        CC.-CCO   C      C   N       Ca-4  C  -
-               -                                            C        a-C       C          a..         -  C
a-CC        .4C          -       NCC    a-IC  C       a-aC  ana-        a-Ca-a-a     OCON              -
CC        C            C      C                         CC   C           -        C  C  C
*      a a  C       CC   a             C 14.-a    C CCC       C CCCI  -         ta C  C         i CCC   C       C   C      CC  C  C
CC                     C                                CC                        C
NI                                            CO          C                 C                           N   N                           C.
*      C a  C       C C  C             C CCC       'CC        ''CCC    C        C C a  a      aCCaC   C         IC   C     C C  a  C
                                                             a-Cu        C                                             N
C      C C  C            C      a         CO       a C a                C        CC  C       OCCCC   C              C       C  C  
C      CCC  C        CCa-CCC   C       C   C        0  -  C
CO                                    a-4C          a-a.-4CC
0
C
0           - 0      00   0       00  0        C      CCCC    00CC          COCCC   C         CCC  C        CCNNN   -         C   C       NC  N  C
Cal CO   CC C    CC C    C   CNCa-a  CCCC    CCNOC                                 CCC 0   CC.C CC    Ca-a    CCCC
.1 -           -            -                                                                       -       C          -            -  ..  Ca
Cal                                                                                                                                     C  04
01 C
C      'OC         ..4C         0      OCCO    .-CCC          a-CCCCa-4         a-Ca-C         C.-ICN          C-aN
o  a      CC           ON          C      CCC.-'   CCCa-0        CCCa-OC           CCC           CCCC-,.4         .nr..       ant.         o
C      CC           CC          C      CCCO    CCCC           CCCOC             CCC           CC.-aCC          CC          CC
o                               a                                            a.
Ca                                                    44                               Ca
Ca                                                                                     0
44                                                       0                 -   Ca      0  44
a        Ca                                           0              0             a. 0              0  -           0
Ca      -            an    ,4   a                      Ca            -             Ca    0           0    0     4    0
0        0                                 0                         0             0  C              0  0        0 0
0           0   Ca    0   a       C          '0  Ca    Ca   0             0  CC             44
a-'I    a                0   C      Ca                                                .0  Ca            C   CC]     0   Ca
14      .0          .0            .   -         a           a     C              0  44  Ca   Ca    0       a  14   -.4               C
*  0   C.   0       Ca   0  .  Ca  CC  Ca  Ca   Ca  Ca      CC  Ca  Ca  0      Ca    C       Ca   Ca   C   0    04    C  a  CC  0     o  a-
Ca  0  CC   C       CC   CR0000                04   -         0  a-C  0  C      U         Ca Ca
*  S  OS            C4      Ca  U        OUR - taw-ICa  CC   aCCS               Va.      14  Va  V.           a                         C
Ca   Ca  V.          V.      0     V    .4V.,.Ca   Ca  V.>Ca  14   a-OV.14-,@a-  I  V.0   C    V.   14.04    I   0)-.  0
0  00         I Va       -  V  0  90(4.-C  >VOC4..C  Ca  0400-Ca           0 C       0  00000         CCI CU      a
C  CC  Ca       *  00       0
0  0  CalCaCa Ca 0aCaC4  0  CaC CataCa             C      U  CICCaC)       0    14     0
0  0  0CC      CC  CC       0  0  -  CVCO> Cj CCC)-  0  C C0CC             C  0CC         *                J                              C
Ca OCa               00      V  00      a-C  0
0  0  CC4         0(4      caj -  C  OCIC.' C4  a-COOl)      a uOoJ        V  .CC4V    . -  OCt40)'       0  00       0                   C
*                    I.'CC           00               C00                                      0
-                J           Cl     CC                     0                               0                            C)
CO.      C  COO.    Ca      0  CO. C C COCaa)C0  '4  CPa CCC            CO. )     0  COO. )4C      9  ).O    C    o       :
Pa                 0                     -ao                             Ca                            0



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Furniture and EquiPment
(USS '000)                                                a.b.ne                Loa
FE.r&1gn-VE-Jin&e         Local
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4         Year 5         TOTAL             %             Ca/;         Cost
Administrative Services
Office furniture I/           5.0                              -                -               -             5.0           50              2.5         2.5
Office equipment 2/           3.5             -                _                -              -             3.5           80               2.8         0.7
Radio communication set       5.5             -                -                -               -            5.5            90              5.0         0.5
Workshop equipment           15.0            15.0              -                -               -            30.0           90             27.0         3.0
Generator                    45.0             -                _-                               -           45.0            90             40.5         4.5
Subtotal          74.0            15.0                               -               -            89.0           87             77.8        11.2
Finance
Office furniture 1/           5.0             -                -                -               -             5.0           50              2.5         2.5
Office equipment 2/          11.0                              -               -                             11.0           80              8.8         2.2
Other equipment               5.0             -                -                -               -            5.0            80              4.0         1.0
Subtotal          21.0             -                -                -               -            21.0           73             15.3         5.7
Agricultural Services
Office furniture 1/          12.0             -                -                -               -            12.0           50              6.0         6.0
Office equipment 2/ 3/      25.0              -                -                -               -           25.0            80             20.0         5.0
Mechanical hand winches    14.0              14.0              -                -               -            28.0           90             25.2         2.8
Miscellaneous lab and
field trial equipment      20.0             15.0              -                -               -           35.0            90             31.5         3.5
Mapping & Surveying
equipment                   12.0             8.0              -                -               -            20.0           90             18.0         2.0
Clearing equipment           10.0             -                -                -               -            10.0           90              9.0         1.0
Subtotal         93.0            37.0              -                                -           130.0           84            109.7        20.3
Training
Office furniture 1/           4.0             -                -                _               -             4.0           50              2.0         2.0
Office equipment              5.0             -                -                -               -             5.0           80              4.0         1.0
Dormitory equipment          20.0             -                -                 -              -            20.0           80             16.0         4.0
Training aids                15.0             -                5.0              -               -            20.0           80             16.0         4.0
Audio visual aids            15.0             5.0              5.0               -              -            25.0           80             20.0         5.h
Subtotal           59.0             5.0             10.0               -              -            74.0           78             58.0        16.0
Cooperative-Credit Services
Office furniture 1/           5.0             -                -                _               -             5.0           50              2.5         2.5
Office equipment 2/           5.0             5.0              -                -               -            10.0           80              8.0         2.0
Subtotal           10.0             5.0              -                 -              -            15.0           70             10.5         4.5
Planning & Evaluation
Office furniture 1/           3.0             -                -                                -             3.0           50              1.5         1.5
Office equipment 2//          6.0             -                -                 -              -             6.0           80              4.8         1.2
Subtotal            9.0             -                -                 -              -             9.0           70              6.3          2.7
Schistosomiasis Unit
Office furniture 1/           2.5             -                _                _               _             2.5           50              1.3         1.2
Office equipment 2/           5.5             -                -                -               -             5.5           80              4.4         1.1
Laboratory equipment          -               7.0             12.0              6.0             -            25.0           90             22.5          2.5
Subtotal            8.0             7.0             12.0               6.0            -            33.0           86             28.2          4.8
TOTAL                       274.0            69.0             22.0              6.0             -           371.0           82            305.8        65.2
1/ Desks, conference tables, chairs.
2/ Typewriters,calculators, filing cabinets                                                                                                                       g a
3/ Includes drafting equipment,                                                                                                                                   , 






.2  2-~22I22~2                                      .2.2  12 22 ic                       y                          ...2  9                       5 9i                      6 ' -                              2 V    g   H  y  W  | 6 ' X  ^ q n N .  ' 2 i  =  6  n  H  n V - g t 6 E   9 -  s  - 6
2  .22222                     2'~~~~~-    --  -.2 -2-- -----                                                                                                                                                      -- -- -- -- --.
o '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2.~~~~~~~.--2                      ---                    --22-                                                                            = -'-"-
-     - -  --       -  -  - - -                                    ----    - -------- --                                                                       
'C'             C'         I--                        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---         -  --  --C
@~~~~~~~~~~ . .>s           .~ . .-~M .                                                    .f  . .                                                                                        9. .>M~M >  .   ,O  .UH  .e OCeeWUD_   P _ H H_P  .  .    .w   . . ._ < . - . . .
222                          ____ _                                  _         _____ _  _ ___ .             .           I..          .       .. _ _ _   -_ ^  g                            I
-  -r                                                           -s-N_  - ---s  - u_ > S -_     -  e- ----       - ---        --      ---   - -__>_  -e - -    -eu e  -_ - -u>_S_ - -e u_~ X - - -- -                 ------ ---              
-  ..   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~CC'C'                                                          C            - C                                                           2~~~~~~~~~~~-        ---     ---   
-    -           -                  --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C'-   --C'- ----C'         ---- -   - - - - ~CC ~ CC      C-     --    C''             ' ' ~           C C C                               CCC~'C'---  - -                   C-
w   W  W  .   .  -                                   -        -C'--C .  I  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   '    .   .  .  .   .  .  .            .  .  .                              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . o
-                                           -  - -                                    - - - - - -  - _ - -  _    - - - -  -- - - - - - -                                                   - - -   - - - -e- - -
.    .   .     .   _O C.O .     .    .     . . . .....   .   W.   AOO   WW U O U OO: OO OU OW UO . .    . .  .    . .    .    .   OO .    .    . .    . .  . .    .     . .    .    .  lOOOOUWOOOOOO100UOO,
-  -   - - -- - - - -_                               - - -       > - - -----  - --                   -            -      -             --------                                     C"CC'CC-       -    -- - CC-'  - - - -_ - -                                                    8
*                                                                                                      - ~9~s  W s    >_   W .__M__@__   _--SS_~M_    - _oy>9__    He--w--  ~."e.>ee>W>t-~   -_   - _-e    -~  Q -*- uy~_MS,_ -                                   _-
- X  ru   ossy,>  >  e    Fua S     _  oeQu_  ~_~sSFS               f -Dwuu -      F-*          -  F       - NF''OS>3   9tUfFFl<U           ~    S       ~ue_             uo        w   Uuouou           o       <-F------ --S-o-e-|
SS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .a .                                          . .     .     .     . U . e .                          C.                                                 .l .     .     .     .o .     .   .0 . gaflD  l
q 9 lF9 : - ............~~~~.             . , . ff . .     .     . .     .     .     .  .   .     .     .     .   ...   X l                                                               .. .U  .   ., .     .   .     .     .   .>
-  F  F zM * FtSF-o  :  tw__?ss  g  St-F99'F@8 - 8F@8 a  F  F >b1F FF WF  |  OW  wS8>oWS r  SWF uSF  I |    0O  oosuoo  o  u   _  -w9-F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~88 a  _ ~~~~~W  38   SF    S      |o r   nCe~~~~~~~~~.
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                       u   '                 CC                         C'                                                                                      C'                               C'              u0000M>OwOOOOOO           






,LIBERIA
BOG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle operatine Cost
(US$'000)
Foreign Exchange          Local
Unit Cost       Year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         TOTAL        7.          Cost           Cost
Saloon cars                                           2.1   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2                  21.0       70            14.7           6.3
Administrative Services
Saloon cars                                         2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1                  10.5       70             7.4           3.1
Pick-up                                             2.3   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6   (71          4.6   (2)    4.6            23.0       70            16.1           6.9
Subtotal                                              6.7            6.7           6.7            6.7            6.7          33.5       70            23.5         10.0
Finance
Saloon car                                          2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1                  10.5       70             7.4           3.1
Pick-up                                             2.3   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6    (1)    4.6                 23.0       70            16.1           6.9
Subtotal                                              6.7            6.7            6.7           6.7            6.7          33.5       70            23.5         10.0
Agricultural Services
Saloon cars                                         2.1   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2                  21.0       70            14.7           6.3
4 wheel drive                                       3.2   (3)    9.6   (3)    9.6   (3)    9.6   (3)    9.6   (3)    9.6                  48.0       70            33.6          14.4
Pick-up                                             2.3   (7)   16.1   (7)   16.1   (7)   16.1   (7)   16.1   (7)   16.1                  80.5       70            56.4          24.1
Motorcycles                                         1.2  (15)   18.0  (171    20.4  (1R)   21.6  fig6   21.6  (ig1    21.6               103.2       70            72.2          31.0
Subtotal                                             47.9           50.3          51.5           51.5           51.5         252.7       70           176.9         75.8
Training
Saloon car                                          2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)          2.1   (1)    2.1            10.5       70             7.4           3.1
Pick-up                                             2.3   (1)    2.3   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6   (2)    4.6                  20.7       70            14.5           6.2
Mini-bus                                            2.6   (1)    2.6   (2)    5.2   (2)    5.2   (2)    5.2   (2)    5.2                  23.4       70            16.4           7.0
Subtotal                                              7.0           11.9          11.9           11.9           11.9          54.6       70            38.3         16.3
Cooperative - Credit Services
Saloon cars                                         2.1   (1)      2.1   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2   (2)    4.2                18.9       70            13.2           5.7
Pick-up                                             2.3   (4)    9.2   (5)   11.5   (5)   11.5   (5)   11.5'  (5)   11.5                  55.2       70            38.6          16.6
Trucks                                              3.1   (1)      3.1   (2)    6.2   (2)    6.2   (2)    6.2   (2)    6.2                27.9       70            19.5           8.4
Motorcycles                                         1.2   (9)   10.8  (15)   18.0  (15)   18.0  (15)   18.0  (15)   18.0                  82.8       70            58.0          24.8
Subtotal                                             25.2           39.9          39.9           39.9           39.9         184.8       70           129.3         55.5
Plannine & Evaluation
Mini-bus                                            2.6   (1)      2.6   (1)     2.6   (1)    2.6   (1)       2.6   (1)      2.6          13.0       70             9.1           3.9
Motorcycles                                         1.2   (3)      3.6   (7)    8.4   (71       8.4   (7)      8.4   (7)     8.4          37.2       70            26.0          11.2
Subtotal                                               6.2           11.0          11.0           11.0           11.0          50.2       70            35.1          15.1
Schistoso_iasis Unit
Mini-bus                                            2.6   (1)      2.6   (1)     2.6   (1)    2.6   (1)       2.6   (1)      2.6          13.0       70             9.1           3.9
Motorcycles                                         1.2   (4)     4.8  (61      7.2  (61        7.2   (61      7.2  (61      7.2          33.6       70            23.5          10.1
Subtotal                                              7.4            9.8           9.8            9.8            9.8          46.6       70            32.6         14.0
TaTAL
July 23, 1976                                                     111.3          140.5         141.7          141.7          141.7         676,9       70           473.9         203.0



LIBERIA
B0NG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Services Cost
(US$'000)
Foreixn ExChange        L,,}1
Unit Cost          Ye"r I        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4        Year 5         TOTAL         %           Coat         Coat
Administrative Services
Rent - House                             3.0              3.0             -              -              -             -             3.0                                   3.0
Office space                     10.0             10.0                            -             -              -            10.0         -             -          10.0
Other expenditures 1/                    10.0              5.0           10.0           10.0           10.0           10.0         45.0        10            4.5         40.5
Subtotal                                          18.0            10.0          10.0           10.0           10.0          58.0        10            4.5         53.5
Finance
Rent - House                              3.0              3.0            -              -              -                           3.0         -             -           3.0
Office space                     10.0             10.0             -              -              -             -            10.0         -             -          10.0
Other expenditures 1/                    10.0             5.0            10.0           10.0           10.0          10.0          45.0        10            4.5         40.5
Subtotal                                          18.0            10.0          10.0           10.0           10.0          58.0         8           4.5          53.5
Agricultural Services
Rent - House                              3.0              9.0            -              -              -              -            9.0         -             -           9.0
Office space                     10.0             30.0             -              -             -              -            30.0         -             -          30.0
Other expenditures 1/                    20.0            10.0            20.0           20.0           20.0          20.0          90.0        10            9.0         81.0
49.0            20.0          20.0           20.0           20.0         129.0         7           9.0        120.0
Subtotal
Trainina
Rent - House                              3.0             3.0                                                                        3.0  -                                .0
Office space                     10.0             10.0             -              -              -             -            10.0                                  10.0
Other expenditures V/                    10.0             5.0            10.0           10.0           10.0          10.0          45.0        10            4.5         40.5
Training costs V/                        20.0            10.0            20.0           20.0           20.0           20.0         90.0         -             -          90.0
Subtotal                                          28.0            30.0           30.0          30.0           30.0         148.0         3            4.5        143.5
Cooperative - Credit Services
Rent - House                              3.0              3.0            -              -              -              -            3.0         -             -           3.0
Office space                     10.0             10.0             -              -              -             -            10.0         -             -          10.0
Other expenditures                       10.0              5.0           10.0           10.0           10.0          10.0          45.0.       10            4.5         40.5
Subtotal                                          18.0            10.0           10.0          10.0           10.0          58.0         8            4.5         53.5
Planning and Evaluation
House - Office space                    10.0             10.0                            -              -              -           10.0         _             _          10.0
Other expenditures                       10.0             5.0            10.0           10.0           10.0           10.0         45.0        10            4.5         40.5
Subtotal                                          15.0            10.0           10.0          10.0           10.0          55.0         8            4.5         50.5
Schistosmisasis Unit
Rent - Office space                      10.0            10.0             -              -              -              -            10.0        -             -          10.0
Other expenditures                      10.0              5.0            10.0           10.0           10.0          10.0          45.0        10            4.5         40.5
Subtotal                                          15.0            10.0           10.0           10.0          10.0          55.0         8            4.5         50.5
TOTAL                                                   161.0           loO.0          100.0          100.0          100.0        561.0         6           36.0        525.0   o
1/ Includes utilities. statiomary, office supplies. etc.
2/ Food, subsistence, etc.
July 22, 1976



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm In uts
(US  000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1          Year 2            Year 3           year 4           Year 5           Total        %           Cost    Local Cost
Farm Inputs
Incremental
Fertilizer                              3.9              50.1            109.0           210.3             332.2           705.5       80           564.6        140.9
Rice Seeds and Plantain shades        *30.0              57.3             75.2            70.2              14.6           247.3       10            24.7        222.6
Land Development and tools             40.4              86.9            122.9           121.4               1.4           373.0       80           298.4         74.6
Chemical spraying, processing
.equipment                             -                 16.1             42.6            73.8             119.3           251.8       52           147.1        104.7
Subtotal                    74.3             210.4            349.7            475.7            467.5         1,577.6       66         1,034.8        542.8
Seedlings (Cocoa and Coffee)                -                 79.2            192.8           282.5             290.4           844.9       10            84.4        760.5
Pedal threshers and Power tillers           -                 16.5             57.7           126.0             153.0            353.2      80           282.6         70.6
Subtotal                    74.3             306.1            600.2           884.2              910.9        2,775.7       51         1,401.8      1,373.9
Hired labor                                 -                 38.2            156 3           251 9             213 7           660.1        -                        660.1
Total                       74 3             344.3            756.5         1,136.1           1,124.6          3,435.8      41         1,401.8      2,034.0
I >4
Aueust 2, 1976



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction, Upgrading and Maintenance Costs
(US$'000)
Foreign Exchange         Local
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5        TOTAL          Z          Cost          Cost
Equipment                              719.0         100.0           -              -             -           819.0         100        B19.0          -
Labor
Construction                           -            20.3          40.6          40.6           40.6         142.1          -          -           142.1
Upgrading                              -            24.4          24.4            -             -            48.8          -          -            48.8
Maintenance                            -             -             12.9          29.7          37.4          80.0          -          -            80.0
Subtotal                     -            44.7           77.9          70.3          78.0         270.9          -          -           270.9
Materials - Culverts
Construction                           -            27.0          54.0           54.0          54.0         189.0          90        170.1        -18.9
Upgrading                              -            42.0          42.0            -             -            84.0          90         75.6          8.4
Subtotal                     -            69.0           96.0          54.0          54.0         273.0          90        245.7         27.3
Operating Costs
Construction                                        88.5         177.0          177.0         177.0         619.5          70        433.7        185.8
Upgrading                              -            46.6          46.6            -             -            93.2          70         65.2         28.0
Maintenance                            -             -             21.2          48.5          61.2         130.9          70         91.6          39.3
Subtotal                                  135.1          244.8         225.5         238.2          843.6         70        590.5         253.1
Materials and Supplies (local)
Construction                           -             9.0           18.0          18.0          18.0          63.0          10          6.3         56.7
Upgrading                              -            12.5           12.5           -             -             25.0         10          2.5          22.5
Maintenance                            -             -              3.0           6.7           8.3           18.0         10          1.8          16.2
Subtotal                      -            21.5           33.5          24.7           26.3         106.0         tO         10.6          95.4
TOTAL                                  719.0         370.3         452.2          374.5         396.5       2,312.5          72      1,665.8         646.7
July 23, 1976



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultant Technical Assistance Costs
and Research Station Improvement
$ '000
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5       TOTAL    Foreign Exchange    Local
%     Cost         Cost
Rural Dev. Feasibility Study  1/       --                 200.0        --        --        200.0      100    200.0
Research organization study  2/       15.0        --        --         _                    15.0      100      15.0
Reorganization of Min. of Agric.3/   15.0         --        --         --        --         15.0       100     15.0         __
Rice Research  4/                      --        30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0       120.0       100    120.0         --
Research improvements  5/              --       150.0     200.0      150.0     150.0       650.0        80    520.0       130.0
TOTAL                             30.0     180.0      430.0     180.0      180.0      1000.0        87    870.0       130.0
1/ Third Rural Development Project in Grand Gedah County. 40 man months at $5000/man month
(all costs included).
2/  CAES Study:  3 man months at $5000/man month.
3/  Completion of reorganization of Ministry of Agriculture.                                                           m M
4/  Continuation of IITA support for Suakoko research.
5/  Improvement to Suakoko after Year 1 study.                                                                        0



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPn   PROJECT
Proposed Financing Plan
(Us$'o00)
1 D A                                      U SA ID
Foreign         Local            Foreign           Local                     Foreign           Local
Total       Exchange         Cost          Exchange Cost        Cost        Total      Exchange Cost        Cost            Total          GOL
Buildings                                           542.0          379.5        162.5             379.5              54.1       433.6           -                -                _          108.4
Vehicles                                            488.1          390.4          97.7            390.4              48.9       439.3           -                -                -            48.8
Furniture and equipment                             371.0          305.8          65.2            305.8              28.1       333.9           -                -                -            37.1
Salaries and wages 1/                             5,424.0       1,575.o       3,849.0           1,575.0             669.1    2,244.1            -               377.6            377.6     2,802.3
Vehicles - operating cost                           676.9          473.9         203.0            473.9               -         473.9           -                -                -           203.0
General services                                    561.0           36.0        525.0              36.0             356.7       392.7           -                -                -           168.3
Farm inputs                                       2,775.7        1,401.8       1,373.9             -                  -           -           1,401.8           680.0         2,081.8         693.9
Hired labor                                         660.1           -           660.1              -                                            -                -                -          660.1
Road construction,upgrading and maintenance    2,312.5           1,665.8        646.7              -                  -           -           1,665.8            68.6         1,734.4         578.1
Research                                            650.0          520.0         130.0            520.0              65.0       585.0           -                 -               -            65.0
Consultants                                         150.0         150.0            -              150.0               -         150.0           -                -                -            _
Feasibility study                                   200.0          200.0           -              200.0               -         200.0           -                -                -            -
Village wells                                       100.0           50.0          50.0             50.0              20.0        70.0           -                 -               -            30.0
Development of banking institutions                 150.0           90.0          60.0             90.0              15.0       105.0           -                -                -            45.0
Subtotal                            15,061.3        7,238.2       7,823.1          4,170.6           1,256.9    5,427.5          3,067.6         1,126.2         4,193.8       5,440.0
Contingencies
- physical                             752.9          361.4         391.5            200.9              68.8       269.7           160.4             48.9           209.3        273.9
- price                              4.441.6        2.132.o       2.309.6            972.7             335.7    1.308.4          1.161.5            383.5        1,545.0       1.588.2
Subtotal                             5,194.5        2,493.4       2,701.1          1,173.6             404.5    1,578.1          1,321.9           432.4          1,754.3      1,862.1
TOTAL                                            20,255.8        9,731.6      10,524.2          5,344.2           1,661.4    7,005.6          4,389.5         1,558.6         5,948.1       7,302.1
1/  757 of local cost (503.4) of Credit and Cooperative Services Unit for                                                                                                                            H  i
USAID and 20% of remaining local cost  to IDA.
August 17, 1976



L18ERIA
lONG COUNTY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHUNT P'ROJECT
IlsreseCash Flot for Cooemo f L.ber-
Ye.r 1          Year 2          Year 3          Ser4            Yer S            Year 6          Year 7          Year 0          Ye- 9            Year 10        Year 11        Year 12         Year  13-20         Ye-r  21-40    Yea-  41-50
IDA C-ed,   1/                             -1,539.0         1,236.6         1,417.0         1,279.0         1,334.0            -                               -------
1/SAID Lo...  II                              805.4           785.2         1,212.3         1,483.6         1,661.6            --                                                                               ----
Reveror Pros loAsro I T-r 2/                  -               -               100.3           161.2            258.7           343.4           434.3           518.6           572.0            608.8           636.0          650.7             658.1              658.1             658.1
17/C   -d-,dei   3/                           -                                                                  5.6            44.2            87.4           131.2           159.1           _178.4           129            200.4             204.2              204.2             204.2
TOTAL INFLOW                            2,144.4         2,021.0         2,729.5          2,923.8         3,469.9           387.6            521.7           649.8           731.1           787.2            828.9          851.1            862.3               862.3            862.3
O.ofles of Fords
ProJerI Costs                              3,360.1          3,113.8        4,130.9          4,116.2         5,094.8            -               .               -               -                -               .                               -                                    -
Rerorr-o  Costs - P-.1 P-o/ort                -                               -               -                              1,235.0         1,216.0         1,198.0         1,121.0          1,199.0         1,192.0        1,157.0           1,157.0            1,1157.0          1,157.0
Lees    D"velop-er  Food
Srr-,"r    4'                               -                                   /    4.6/            27.35           77 5/          153.05           229.77          278.5'       1                    1         7  30.7.).(          357.41         1   35?.45        1    57.4/
TOTAL OO'TFLOW                         3,360.1         3,113 0         4,130 9         4,551,6          5,062.5         1,157.5         1,063.0            960.3           842.5           886.8            854.8          806.3            799.6               799.6            799 6
N.1 bIbsl 'SbrOfboe                             1.015 7'       (1,092.0/       (1,401.4,        (1,627.8)       (1,197.6/           769.97          541.37          318.51          111.4)       1 99.67          (    5.97          44.8              62.7               62.1              62.7
Is/Il Se-ol' 0
IDA Cr-Ar,   Pror, p.1                        .                                                                                                        -                       -                .                70.0           70.0              70.0              210,0             210.0
Ir--res  j'                      5.6           -16.1           -26.1           -36.2            '46.7            52.5            52.5           -52.3             22.5            52.5            50.0            50.0             00.0                23,5             23.5
USA9/0 L.es..  Pr,,-1p.1                                                      -               -                                -               -               -                -.200.0                                        200.0             200.0               200.0-
-tero  6/0                                   40             4               70.9            102.3           10.     520.0           120.0 _ _2      U0120.0                  120.0           106.2          106.2             106.2              106.2-
S.brorsl                                  13.6            40 1             70.0           107.1           149.0            172.5           172.5           172.5           177.5           172.5            426.2          426.2            426.2               539.7             233.5
I,' A-, alo fiv  (0ulflos   ftrer
D. b, Ser_soi-                              (1,029.2)       (1,132.1/      /11471.4/        (1,734.9)        (1,746.6/          942.45          713.8)           4 91.0)      (  283.9)       1  272.1)          452.15          381.4)            365.5)1   477.0/                    170.85
C-mlatioe                                      (1,029.3)        (2,161.4)       (3,632.0)       (5,367.7)       (7.114.3)        (8,056.7)       (8,770.3)       (9,262.5)       (9.545.41        (9,817.5)      (10,269.6)    (10,651.0)         (13,559.0)         (23,099.0)        (24,807.0)
2/1 12/ of .11 -et ,sree'sIf-r  , roe               --,rr.1 f.,g.re v.les of p-olet ortprt) lagged by 2 y-r..
3/  47 of FOB Mo.... - -1- of Proet coffer sod co...o. orprr 'sdo507. eha- of COL eqo-ty  h/sr  or tho 07., L7MG prof-  -sgir) lgged by 00. yea.-
4/  77. of FOB Moorvis vs Ie of proje- ...o. .. d r-ff.e  -rpr.t
TDA11            h.tesr .5 b... Cal-1ated at 3/4 of 1%/ or -t.t-ad-g bal.-r  year  1-10  -od averged ove  ye-  11-50.
USA01I1  i,ter-o  ha. boo  -elcolatd or 27. or -ntst-d-g b.lmor  Year  1.10 sod ev-rged ove  year  11-40  tr 3%.



ANNEX 8
Table 13
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
Cumulative
US$ '000               US$ '000
F.Y. - 1977
First Quarter                                                 -
Second Quarter                       -                        -
Third Quarter                      100.0                    100.0
Fourth Quarter                     300.0                    400.0
F.Y. - 1978
First Quarter                      400.0                    800.0
Second Quarter                     400.0                   1200.0
Third Quarter                      350.0                   1550.0
Fourth Quarter                     350.0                   1900.0
F.Y. - 1979
First Quarter                      350.0                   2250.0
Second Quarter                     350.0                   2600.0
Third Quarter                      400.0                   3000.0
Fourth Quarter                     400.0                   3400.0
F.Y. - 1980
First Quarter                      350.0                   3750.0
Second Quarter                     350.0                   4100.0
Third Quarter                      300.0                   4400.0
Fourth Quarter                     300.0                   4700.0
F.Y. - 1981
First Quarter                      350.0                   5050.0
Second Quarter                     350.0                   5400.0
Third Quarter                      400.0                   5800.0
Fourth Quarter                     400.0                   6200.0
F.Y. - 1982
First Quarter                      400.0                   6600.0
Second Quarter                     400.0                   7000.0



LIBERIA
BONG COIINTY AGRICULTURAL DE7ELOP1ENT PROJECTS
Coffee Establishment Cost
(us$ '000)
Foreign Exchange              Local
Year I      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5           TOTAL           %            Cost              Cost
Rice Seeds and Plantain Shades 1/
Year 1            150 ha                  6.8          -            -            -            -               6.8         10              0.7              6.1
Year 2            350 ha                  -           15.8          -            -                           15.8         10              1.6             14.2
Year 3            500 ha                  -            -           22.5          -            -              22.5         10              2.2             20.3
Year 4            500 ha                  -            -            -           22.5          _              22.5         10              2.2             20.3
Subtotal                           6.8         15.8         22.5         22.5          -              67.6          10              6.7            60.9
Land Development and Tools 1/
Year 1            150 ha                 12.0          -            -            -            -              12.0         80              9.6              2.4
Year 2            350 ha                  -           28.0          -            -            -              28.0         80             22.4              5.6
Year 3            500 ha                  -            -           40.0          -            -              40.0         80             32.0              8.0
Year 4            500 ha                  -            -            -            40.0         -              40.0         80             32.0              8.0
Subtotal                          12.0         28.0         40.0         40.0          -             120.0          80             96.0            24.0
Coffee Seedlings 1/
Year 2            150 ha                  -           31.7          3.2          -            -              34.9         10              3.5             31.4
Year 3            350 ha                  -            -           73.9          7.4          -              81.3         10              8.1             73.2
Year 4            500 ha                                            -          105.6         10.6           116.2         10             11.6            104.6
Year 5            500 ha                               -           - -    -                 105.6           105.6         10       _      0 6             95.0
Subtotal                          -           31.7         77.1        113.0        116.2           338.0          10             33.8           304.2
Fertilizers 1/
Year 2            150 ha                  -           15.5          7.6          9.7         13.4            46.2         80             37.0              9.2
Year 3            350 ha                  -            -           36.1         17.6         22.7            76.4         80             61.1             15.3
Year 4            500 ha                  -            -            -           51.5         25.2            76.7         80             61.4             15.3
Year 5            500 ha                  -            -            -            -           51.5            51.5         80             41.2             10.3
Subtotal                           -           15.5         43.7         78.8        112.8           250.8          80            200.7            50.1
Chemicals 1/
Year 2            150 ha                  -            0.2          0.2          0.3          0.3             1.0         80              0.8              0.2
Year 3            350 ha                  -            -            0.4          0.7          0.7             1.8         80               114             0.4
Year 4            500 ha                  -            -            -            0.5          0.5             1.0         80              0.8              0.2
Year 5            500 ha                  -            -            -            -            0.5             0.5         80              0.4              0.1
Subtotal                           -            0.2          0.6          1.5          2.0             4.3          80              3.4             0.9
Sprayers 1/
Year 2            150 ha                  -            2.6          -            -            2.6             5.2         80              4.2              1.0
Year 3            350 ha                  -            -            6.0          -                            6.0         80              4.8              1.2
Year 4            500 ha                  -            -            -            8.5          -               8.5         80              6.8              1.7
Year 5            500 ha                  -            -            -            -            8.5             8.5         80               6.8             1.7
Subtotal                           -            2.6          6.0          8.5         11.1             28.2         80             22.f             5.6
Processina Equivpent 1/
Year 2            150 ha                  -            -            2.2          5.2          -               7.4         10               0.7             6.7
Year 3            350 ha                  -            -            -            5.2         12.2            17.4         10               1.7            15.7
Year 4            500 ha                  -            -            -            -            7.5             7.5         10               0.8             6.7
Year 5            500 ha                  -            -            -            -            -               -           10                -               -
Subtotal                          -            -            2.2         10.4         19.7            32.3          10              3.2            29.1
Total Farm Inputs 1/                     18.8         93.8        192.1        274.7        261.8           841.2         44            366.4            474.8
1/ Sea Annex 2, Table 11 for Costs.
July 16, 1976



LIBERIA
BONG CODWY AGRICUlTURAL DWEWP3UNT PROJECT
Cooa Eetablisbient Cost
(L'S '000)
loreigo  IsebCng           Local
Year I       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5          TOTAL              %           Coat         Cost
Rice Seeds and Plantains Shades 1/
Year 1              300 he              13.5          -             -           _                           13.5            10            1.4          12.1
Year 2              700                   -          31.5           -           _            _               31.5           10            3.2          28.3
Year 3            1,000                   -            -          45.0          -            -              45.0            10            4.5          40.5
Year 4            1,000                   -            -            -          45.0          -              45.0            10            4.5          40.5
Subtotal                         13.5         31.5         45.0         45.0          -             135.0           10           13.6          121.4
Land Develoomnt and Tools 1/
Year 1              300                  24.0          -            -            -            _              24.0           80            19.2          4.8
Year 2              700                   -           56.0          -            _            _              56.0           80            44.8         11.2
Year 3            1,000                   -            -          80.0           -            -              80.0           80            64.0         16.0
Year 4            1,000                   -            -            -          80.0           -              80.0,          80            64.0         16.0
Subtotal                         24.0         56.0         80.0         80.0          -             240.0           g0            192.0        48.0
Cocoa Seedlinas 1/
Year 2              300                   -          47.5           4.8          -           _               52.3           10             5.2         47.1
Year 3              700                   -            -         110.9         11.1          -             122.0            10            12.2        109.8
Year 4            1,000                   _            _            -         158.4          15.8           174.2           10            17.4        156.8
Year 5            1,000                                -            -            -         158.454                                        15.8        142.6
Subtotal                          -           47.5        115.7        169.5        174.2           506.9           10             50.6        456.3
Fertilizers  1/
'Isar 2             300                               20.8          5.0        19.4          26.7            71.9           80            57.5         14.4
Year 3              700                   -            -          48.6          11.8        45.4            105.8           80            84.6         21.2
Year 6            1,000                   _     -                   -          69.5         16.8             86.3           8O            69.0         17.3
Year 5            1.000         _- _                                      -                 69.5             69.5           la            55.6         13.9
Subtotal                          -           20.8         53.6        100.7        158.4           333.5           80           266.7          66.8
Chemicals V/
Year 2              300                   -           0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3              1.2           80             1.0          0.2
Year 3              700                   -            -           0.7           0.7         0.7              2.1           80             1.7          0.4
Year 4            1,000                   -            -            -            1.0         1.0              2.0           80             1.6          0.4
Year 5            1,000                   -            -            -            -            1.0             1.0           60             0.8          0.2
Subtotal                          -            0.3          1.0          2.0          3.0             6.3           80              5.1          1.2
Spravers 1/
Year 2              300                   -          10.5           -            -          10.5             21.0           t0            16.8          4.2
Year 3              700                   -            -          24.5           -            -              24.5           80            19.6          4.9
Year 4            1,000                   -           -             --         35.0           -              35.0           80            28.0          7.0
Year 5            1,000                   -            -            -           -           35.0             35.0           SO            28.0          7.0
Subtotal                          -           10.5         24.5         35.0         45.5           115.5           80             92.4         23.1
Processing EKauipent 1/
Year 2              300                   -            -            -            -          21.0             21.0           10             2.1         18.9
Year 3              700                                      -            -              -                    -                    -
Year 4            1,000                   -            -            -            -
Year 5            1,000                   -            -            -            -            -                                                         -
Subtotal                           -            -            -            -           21.0            21.0           10              2.1         18.9
TOTAL                                    37.5       166.6        319.8        432.2        402.1          1,358.2           46           622.5        735.7
1/ See An.ex 2, Table 13 for Costs.
July 16, 1976



Z- I~~~~~~                                I             .            A            .           S          I               A        3.
63,    ,CX.-                                            -            5X           61            5X          592        I               59        6.
52251  1.11562  -        -            -            1.1                        9.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  X~  6.         41
Im                                                                       ll:'~ . -  . 2.  13     IX             37          .
I..2 65    ,121 455 
52622,21            .           65          121          5~~     ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~1 2  11.7  61.1  II             25         59.2
3225 4    63   .-                                   -                                      56            395I5.                                
32255.                             .            .            5           1.            .             .1       14.                       6.
1,61,121        1 I         1.7          6.S           5.5         7~~ ~ ~~~~~                              ~~~~~ 7 - 51.5   5 55 1.
5222157252                 .           7~~    ~    ~~~~~.5  .    25          1.            4.          9            3.            .
6,35,521     .            5.2         15.2         55.5         55.2          25.5~~~~~~~~~~4  91      5.1         1.
596,2. II~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Z4                                                           1
52225    59962             -           -            -           1616~         ~~-  .261.2              -4                      4152
5214           561                                                 . -           -          222           12.                                   5.
26,31-                                           -            5.          62.          12.          15I          -                       621
5216    15ll110                                     52          2.                                       57         -             -          6.
2,652201                   -          35 2         21.7         60 7~~3       55.5         2.                                   2.
z/2.62.4     4 61   .






ANNEX 9
Page 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices
A. World Demand, Supply and Price Outlook 1/
Price
1.        Rice is the staple food of approximately half the world's population.
In Asia, rice is the major source of calories for 2 billion people; while in
many parts of Africa, the Near East and Latin America rice is the "preferred"
grain. Despite this predominance annual production, rice, roughly 220 million
tons (milled), is only 55% of annual wheat production, or 20% of annual wheat
and coarse grains production.
2.        The market for rice is characterized by extreme uncertainty and
instability. This instability stems from two factors: first, with 90% of
the world's rice being grown in Asia, where monsoon conditions affect export-
ing and importing countries simultaneously and periods of strong import demand
necessarily coincide with periods of reduced export availability, instability
is to some extent inevitable. Second, with 96-97% of production being con-
sumed domestically, the residual which remains to enter world trade is small
and highly susceptible to fluctuations in production. Thus, with the slight
variation is tradable supplies of the past five years, export prices increased
sixfold between April 1971 and April 1974 and have since fallen to nearly one
third of the 1974 peak. This instability calls not only for measures to
strengthen the production base in the main rice consuming countries and
simultaneously to reduce annual fluctuations, but for the establishment of
rice stocks which can provide adequate protection against production short-
falls.
3.        World demand and supply of rice are both projected to increase by
2.4% per annum between 1974 and 1985. The growth rates of demand imply an
increase in world per capita consumption of rice from 55 kilograms to 58
kilograms between 1974 and 1985. The forecast 1980 and 1985 price for rice
(Thai 5% br., f.o.b. Bangkok) in constant 1976 dollars is $359; this cor-
responds in current dollars to a price of $484 and $679 in 1980 and 1985
respectively.
1/   This annex has been largely summarized from Annex 1 of Report No. 814/76.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Coffee
4.        Total world supply of coffee is expected to increase from an average
of 73 million bags in 1972-74 to 91 million bags in 1980 i.e., at an annual
rate of 3.21%. The rate of growth will be about the same in 1980-85, but no
further growth is estimated for 1985-90. The high levels of growth during
1980-85 are the lagged effects of anticipatory price increases, resulting from
the heavy frost in Brazil's coffee producing areas in 1975.
5.        World demand is expected to grow by 1.6% over the period 1973-80 and
by 3.4% over the period 1980-85. The low rate of growth in the first period
is due to the unfavorable income development in 1974 and 1975 and to the
strong increases in coffee prices that followed the Brazilian frost, (coffee
has high income and price elasticities of demand). The period 1980-85 can
be expected to see a strong recovery of demand. Incomes are expected to in-
crease at 5.2% p.a. during this period, as opposed to 3.2% p.a. in 1973-80,
and real coffee prices will come down steadily. In consequence, coffee con-
sumption is expected to grow at 3.4% p.a. over this period, after which the
rate of growth will slow down to about 1.7% in 1985-90.
6.        Consumption in the producing countries is expected to grow by 2.8%
p.a. over the period 1973-80, by 5.2% p.a. in 1980-85, and 3.1% p.a. in the
five-year period thereafter. In the USA, consumption is assumed to decline
slightly. Consumption in the other importing regions will increase by 1.9%
p.a. from 1973 to 1980, by 3.8% p.a. from 1980 to 1985 and by 1.6% p.a. from
1985 to 1990. By implication, the annual rates of growth of world import
demand for coffee over these three periods will be around 1.1%, 2.8% and 1.1%
respectively.
7.        The price of coffee (Guatemalan prime washed, spot New York) was
62g per pound in 1973. After rising to 724 in the first half of 1974, it
dropped sharply in the second half of that year, stabilizing at 50-554 per
pound. It remained at this level until a heavy frost in July 1975 destroyed
most of Brazil's prospective 1976/77 crop. The price started rising rapidly,
reaching 1304 in May 1976. This price is higher than is warranted by the
actual supply-demand balance, and once the size of Brazil's 1976 crop is
known, it is expected to decline. The average price for 1976 is expected to
be 1144, and the 1977 price is expected to average 1114. After that, the
price will rise again in current terms, but real prices will decline further
to reach a low of 624 (in 1974 dollars) in 1985.
8.        In December 1975, a new International Coffee Agreement was nego-
tiated providing for the introduction of export quotas whenever:
(a) The average of the indicator prices of Other Mild
Arabicas and Robustas falls for 20 consecutive market
days below its 1975 level of USt63.23 a pound.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b) The composite indicator price (on whose nature the
International Coffee Council still has to decide)
falls for 20 consecutive market days more than 15%
below its average during the preceding year, and
at the same time the average of the indicator prices
of Other Mild Arabicas and Robustas does not exceed
its 1975 level by more than 22.5% (i.e., does not
exceed USJ77.46 a pound).
Of the total available quota, 70% will be distributed over the exporting
countries according to their recent export performance. The other 30% will
be distributed in proportion to the exporting countries' carry-over stocks
at the end of the previous crop year.
9.        The new Agreement has been concluded for a period of six years.
It will enter into operation on October 1, 1976. QuoLas will pvbLably not
be introduced during 'the first two years of the Agreement, since a drop in
the average indicator price of Other Mild Arabicas and Robustas below USJ77
in current terms is highly unlikely. However, the Agreement provides for
a revision of the trigger price levels for its second and third two-year
period. During this time, real prices are expected to start falling, and
export quotas will probably have to be introduced.
Cocoa
10.       Since all cocoa is produced in the developing world and most of it
is consumed in developed countries, the bulk of the annual cocoa crop enters
international trade. Developing countries' export of cocoa are mostly in the
form of beans; however there is an increasing tendency for cocoa to be manu-
factured into intermediate products in the producing countries before being
exported. Over one-fifth is now processed into intermediate products, com-
pared with about one-eight in the early 1960s.
11.       Five countries (Ghana, Nigeria, Brazil, Ivory Coast and Cameroon)
produce about 80% of world cocoa output, and about 70% of world production
originates in West Africa. World production grew at annual average rates
of 3.3% from 1954/56 to 1972/74 and 2.3% from 1967/69 to 1972/74. Produc-
tion is expected to grow at a rate of 2.8% between 1972/74 and 1980, reach-
ing around 1.8 million tons in 1980; and at 3.4% in the period 1980-85
reaching around 2.1 million tons by 1985. Demand during 1980 and 1985 are
expected to be about 1.8 million and 2.0 million tons respectively.
12.       Real prices of cocoa decreased on average by 0.8% annually from
1954/56 to 1972/74, but increased by 2.3% per annum from 1967/69 to 1972/74.
The high prices in recent years reached a peak of 98.2Ulb. (spot Accra,
New York) in 1974. Projected real prices are expected to decline annually
at a rate of 5.6% from 1972/74 to 1980 and by 3.4% on the average from



ANNEX 9
Page 4
1980 to 1985. Major price fluctuations in the past reflected erratic changes
in production in the face of fairly steadily rising demand. The prices
projected to 1980 and 1985 follow a smooth pattern representing the expected
trend, but prices in any one year may vary considerably from the level indi-
cated, due to short-term variations in supply.
13.       The three-year International Cocoa Agreement which came into force
in 1973 is due to expire on September 30, 1976. It is expected to be suc-
ceeded by a modified agreement, negotiated in 1975, from 1976/77 to 1978/79.
The basic objectives of the agreements are to prevent excessive cocoa price
fluctuations, and to help stabilize and increase producing countries' export
earnings from cocoa while also taking account of the interests of consumers
in importing countries. The main features are: (i) annual export quotas;
(ii) a buffer stock of up to 250,000 tons of cocoa; and (iii) an indicator
price range to be defended by export quota adjustments and buffer stock
operations. The price range for the first Agreement, originally 23-32 #/lb.,
is currently 29-1/2 - 38-1/24/lb. The second agreement is similar to the
first, and its price range will be 39 - 554/lb.
14.       The participants in the current agreement include exporting members
(representing over 90% of world production and exports) and importing coun-
tries (representing over 70% of world imports). However, the largest import-
ing country, the United States, is not a signatory to the first agreement.
15.       The new agreement will enter into force on October 1, 1976, if by
then at least five major exporting countries with at least 80% of the basic
quotas and importing countries with at least 70% of total imports have rati-
fied or at least given notice of their provisional participation in the
agreement. It is possible that the new agreement might not enter into force,
as both the United States and the Ivory Coast are non-signatory countries.
In that event, the existing agreement may be extended.
B. Market Prospects for Project Output
16.       Rice:  Rice is the main staple in the diets of the Liberians.
Total present consumption is estimated between 140,000 - 150,000 metric
tons. Between 1967-75 annual imports averaged about 40,000 tons (with
considerable year-to-year variations); however, since 1973 annual imports
have tended to decrease and total imports during 1975/76 season are about
30,000 metric tons. Future growth in rice production in Liberia is likely
to be higher than it has been in the past due to the current GOL priorities
on attaining national self-sufficiency. However, consumption would increase
at a faster pace due to a population growth rate of about 3% and substantial
income growth from development activities result in a consumption demand on
the order of about 250,000 tons during the early 1980s. Therefore, domes-
tic market would have no difficulty in absorbing the project-induced rice
production.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
17.       However, appropriate policy measures need to be initiated to
facilitate large scale commercialization of this crop. First, rural areas
of Liberia are largely self-sufficient in rice and therefore almost all
of the marketable surplus would have to find markets in the urban centers
of population. Public action may be required for fostering the development
of the necessary marketing institutions, e.g. processing, transportation,
storage, etc. Secondly, all imported rice is presently consumed in the
urban centers and it is believed that urban population have preferences
for such rice.
18.       Coffee:  Liberia is not yet considered to be a major producer
of coffee and its total exports of about 83,000 bags (1968-75 average)
is less than 0.2% of world production. However, its export tonnages are
higher than domestic production because of smuggling from neighboring
Sierra Leone and Guinea (estimated to be about 20-25% of total exports) 1/
Liberia's present production and exports are well below the minimum quota
of 100,000 bags (approximately 6,000 tons) established under the 1976 In-
ternational Coffee Agreement. The incremental output from the project,
although subtantial in terms of existing Liberian production, would be
insignificant in terms of total world production, supply and demand, and
therefore would have no impact on the world price situation. Besides, the
total Liberian production including the full development output from the
project would still be within the quota restrictions and no marketing dif-
ficulties are anticipated. However, any further expansion might run into
quota difficulties 2/ and in view of this, assurances will be sought from
GOL to the effect that before proceeding with further coffee development
they would (a) carefully analyze the market constraints and (b) have con-
sultation with the Bank.
19.       Cocoa:  Liberia is not a member of the International Cocoa Organ-
ization and therefore not limited by quota restrictions like coffee; its
present exports do not exceed 0.2% of world production. Given Liberia's
insignificant share of the world cocoa market, no market difficulties will
be faced in respect to the project incremental output. With proper quality
improvement, Liberia may even find an enlarged export market.
20.       Since the proposed expansion for coffee and cocoa is covered by
existing consultative agreements, both ICA and ICO have been informed of
the scope of the project.
1/   See para 34 Report 426a-LBR
2/   Presently a project prepared by an Ivorian company SATMACI for
3,000 ha of coffee is under consideration.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
International Market Prices, Actual 1955-75, Forecast 1976-85
Under Alternative Assumptions, In Current and 1976 Prices
Rice
Calendar Years                     Thai, 5% br,
f.o.b. Bangkok
(US$ per metric ton)
A.  Current Prices
Actual
1955                               142
1960-62                            138
1963-65                            139
1967-69                            198
1970-72                            140
1973                               350 1/
1974                               542
1975                               363
Jan. - Mar. 1976                   260
Forecast
1976                               300
1977                               340
1978                               393
1979                               437
1980                               484
1985                               679
B. In 1976 Prices 2/
1976                               300
1977                               314
1978                               336
1979                               347
1980                               359
1985                               359
1960-69 Average                    368
1967-69 Average                    443
1970-72 Average                    267
1/   Partly estimated
2/   Deflated by the Economic Analysis and Projections Department, Index of
International Prices(1974=100).



ANNEX 9
Table 2
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Fa rmnate Price
(Import Substitution Values)
Rice
1980                         1985
Economic    Financial        Economic    Finanical
-------    US Dollars per metric ton
FOB Bangkok 1/                  326          326             326           326
Freight and Insurance 2/         60           60              60            60
Overseas Commission 31           13           13              13            13
CIF Monrovia                    399          399             399           399
Importer's Margin 4/             17           50              17            50
Import Tax 5/                    -            12              -             12
Port Expenses 6/                 13           13              13            13
Value at Monrovia               429          474             429           474
Transport to Monrovia 7/         21           30              21            30
Value at Gbarnga                408          444             408           444
Paddy Equivalent (65%)          265          289             265           289
Milling Cost 8/                   9           22               7            17
Bags and Transport 9/            15           15              15            15
Value of Bran 10/                 4            4               4             4
Farmgate price                  237          248             239           253
1/   Based on IBRD price projections for Thai 5% broken in constant 1976
dollars at 10% quality discount.
2/   LPMC data.
3/   4% of FOB Bangkok.
4/   12.5% of CIF Monrovia, 2/3 importers profit, 1/3 economic cost
5/   50i per 100 kg.
6/   Harbor dues, inspection fees, etc.
7/   Transport from Gbarnga to Monrovia at $30/ton, 70% economic cost and
30% in profits and taxes, etc.
8/   Milling cost at 2.24/kg respectively, at 75% and 100% efficiency,
2/5 economic cost.
9/   $0.60 per 100 lb. bag whereby bag is used several times, transportation
0.504/bag.
10/ 8% of paddy weight in bran C 4.4J/kg.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Prices In Current and Constant Terms
Price 1/
--------------USt/lb.------------------
Current         '74 Constant        '76 Constant
1954/56        72.2                149.9              183.7
1967/69        39.6                 72.6               88.5
1970/72        49.1                 76.9               93.7
1973           62.0                 75.9               92.5
1974           66.2                 66.2               80.7
1975           65.3                 57.0               69.9
1976          114.0                 94.0              114.0
1977          111.0                 84.0              102.4
1978          116.0                 81.0               99.0
1979          118.0                 77.0               93.8
1980          123.0                 75.0               91.3
1985          143.0                 62.0               75.7
1/   Guatemalan Prime Washed, Spot, New York Calendar Year Average.
Source: IBRD Commodities Division



ANNEX 9
Table 4
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Farmgate Price
Clean Coffee
1980                        1985
Economic    Financial        Economic    Finanical
------      US Dollars per metric ton-----------
Spot New York 1/                  1935          1935           1604         1604
Insurance and Freight 2/            96            96             96           96
Overseas Selling Commission 3/    39              39             32           32
FOB Monrovia                      1800          1800           1476         1476
Port Expenses 4/                    13            13             13           13
LPMC cost 5/                       198           198            162          162
Transport to Monrovia 6/            21            30             21           30
Agric. Development Fund 7/          -            126             -           103
Price Stabilization Fund 8/         -             90             -            74
LPMC Profit 9/                      -            144             -           118
Value at Gbarnga                  1568          1199           1280          976
Bags and transport 10/              20            20             20           20
Farmgate price clean coffee       1548          1179           1260          956
Farmgate price cherry coffee       882           672            718          545
1/   Based on IBRD price projection for dry coffee beans in 1976 constant
dollars minus 4% for quality discount.
2/   Freight and Bunker surcharge, etc., $83, plus insurance.
3/   2% of spot New York price
4/   Harbor dues, inspection fees, etc.
5/   11% of FOB Monrovia value.
61   Transport from Gbarnga to port at $30/ton, 70% economic cost & 30%
profits, taxes, etc.
7/   7% of FOB Monrovia value.
8/   5% of FOB Monrovia value.
9/   8% of FOB Monrovia value.
10/  20 bags (50 kg) $15 and local transport $5.



ANNEX 9
Table 5
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Cocoa Prices - In Current and Constant Terms
Current       Constant 1974         Constant 1976
---------------------E4/lb. ---- -          ----
1954                   57.8              123.0                 149.7
1955                   37.5               78.6                 95.9
1956                   27.3               55.5                 67.7
1957                   30.6               60.2                 73.4
1958                   44.3               88.6                108.0
1959                   36.6               74.2                 90.6
1960                   28.4               56.1                 68.4
1961                   22.6               44.3                  53.9
1962                   21.0               41.3                 50.2
1963                   25.3               49.3                  60.1
1964                   23.4               45.4                 55.3
1965                   17.3               33.0                  40.2
1966                   24.4               45.5                  55.5
1967                   29.1               53.9                  65.7
1968                   34.4               64.1                  78.0
1969                   45.7               81.9                 100.0
1970                   34.2               57.4                 69.9
1971                   26.8               42.3                 51.6
1972                   32.3               46.9                 57.2
1973                   64.4               78.8                 96.0
1974                   98.2               98.2                119.8
1975                   74.6 2/            65.2                 79.6
1954-57                40.8               85.7                 103.7
1967-69                36.4               66.6                  81.3
1972-74                65.0               74.6                 94.9
Protected
1976                   80.0               66.0                 80.0
1977                   80.0               61.0                  73.8
1978                   80.0               56.0                  68.3
1979                   81.0               53.0                 64.4
1980                   82.0               50.0                  60.9
1985                   97.0               42.0                  51.3
1/ Spot Accra, New York.
2/ Preliminary.



ANNEX 9
Table 6
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Farmgate Price
Cocoa Bean
1980                  1985
Economic Financial Economic Financial
-------US Dollars per metric ton--------
Spot New York 1/                          1278       1278        1076      1076
Insurance & Freight 2/                      91         91          91         91
Overseas Selling Commission 3/              26         26          21         21
FOB Monrovia                              1161       1161         964       964
Port Expenses 4/                            13         13          13         13
LPMC Cost 5/                               116        122          96         96
Transport to Monrovia 6/                    21         30          21         30
Agric. Development Fund 7/                  -          81          -          67
Price Stabilization Fund 8/                            58          -         48
LPMC Profit 9/                              -          93          -          77
Value at Gbarnga                          1011        764         834       633
Bags and Transport 10/                      20         20          20        20
Farmgate price                             991        744         814       613
1/   Based on IBRD price projection for dry cocoa beans in 1976 constant
dollars minus 5% for quality discount.
2/   Freight and Bunker surcharge, etc., $83, plus insurance.
3/   2% of spot New York price.
4/   Harbor dues, inspection fees, etc.
5/   10% of FOB Monrovia value.
6/   Transport from Gbarnga to port at $30/ton, 70% economic cost and 30%
in profits, taxes, etc.
7/   7% of FOB value.
8/   5% of FOB value.
9/   8% of FOB value.
10/  20 bags (50 kg) $15 and local transport $5.



ANNEX 10
Page I
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The annual incremental costs and benefits used in calculating the
economic rate of return to the project are given in Table 1. The basic rate
of return is 21.35%. Table 2 shows the results of the sensitivity analysis.
2.        The following assumptions and methods were used in calculating
the benefit and cost stream:
(a)  Project Life:  Project life is assumed to be
30 years from Project Year 1 and no residual
value is attributed after that period. All
development activities will be initiated and
substantially completed by the end of the proj-
ect development period.
(b) Project Costs: (i) all identifiable taxes and
duties on goods and services are excluded;
(ii) price contingencies are excluded but
physical contingencies (at 5% of base costs)
have been included during the economic life
of the project; (iii) all material farm in-
puts (seeds, seedlings, fertilizers, agricul-
tural chemicals, tools, equipment) have been
costed at full landed price in the project
area; (iv) all hired labor has been costed
at full market wage rate but family labor
at 50% of the market wage rate to reflect
average opportunity cost and productivity in
the area; (v) 60% of the investments in feeder
road development has been included in the
economic costs because the improved road
network will also be used for non-project
activities and benefits derived from such
uses would be sufficient to offset 40% of the
costs that have been ommitted; (vi) all costs
associated with the implementation of research
facilities, development of banking services,
feasibility studies for future projects, village
wells and consultants and an amount of US$0.6
million out of the investment on staff training
have been excluded from economic costs as these
are investments and technical assistance for de-
velopment of socio-economic infrastructure; (vii)
the extension coverage of agriculture and cooperative



ANNEX 10
Page 2
credit officers would gradually revert to
a normal staffing level during the post-
project period (from 1982 onwards) because
by then improved technology would be ade-
quately diffused and local service insti-
tutions would be able to take over a number
of farm support services.
(c) Benefits: (i) yield and production assump-
tions are given in Annex 2, Tables 9 & 10.
It has been assumed that full development
yields would be maintained through the eco-
nomic life of the project; (ii) the value of
project milled rice output is treated as for-
eign exchange savings (import substitution)
and the value of coffee and cocoa as foreign
exchange earnings; (iii) economic farmgate
prices are based on IBRD projections for
1985 in 1976 dollars and have been adjusted
for quality differentials (see Annex 8,
Tables 2, 4 and 6); (iv) no additional bene-
fits due to road improvement/development
are taken into consideration.
3.        The economic rate of return is not sensitive to a reduction of the
project economic life by five years. However, it is sensitive to delays in the
realization of project benefits and increased costs and lowered benefits.
Details are at Table 2.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits
Year I      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5      Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9        Year 10    Year 11        Year 12-30
Incremental Costs   1/
Civil Works                     372          169         -            -             -
Vehicles                        212           47           5           23           201          25           25           25           25             25          25            25
Equipments                      274           69          22            6           -           -            -            -            -              -
Salaries & Wages                923       1,040        1,140        1,177         1,144         350          350          350          350           350         350            350
Vehicle Operating               111          141         141          141           142          60           60           60           60             60         60             60
General Services                161          100          100          100           100          20          20           20            20            20          20            20
Feeder Roads                    431          222         271          225           238         -            -            -            -              -           -
Farm Inputs                      74          306         600          884           911         684          761          743          666           734          727           692
Hired Labor                     -             38          156         252            214         96          -            -            -              -           -
Families Labor                   61          231         629          858           522         798          823          854          889           913          935           946
Subtotal                2,619        2,363        3,064        3,666         3,472       2,033        2,039        2,052        2,010         2,112       2,127         2,103
LeSb
Investment on Training          200          100         100          100           100         -            -            -            -             -
Present Extension Ser-
vices   2/                     42          46           51           56            61          68           74           82           90             99         108           120
TOTAL                   2,377        2.217        2,913        3.510         3,311       1.965        1.965        1.970        1.920         2.013       2.013          1.983
With 57. Contingencies        2,496        2,328       3,060        3,686         3,477       2,063        2,063        2,069        2.016          2,114       2,120         2,082
Incremental Benefits 3/
Value of Rice                    88          314         736        1,228         1,798       2,029        2,089        2,089        2,089          2,089      2,089          2,089
Value of Coroa                  -            -            -            -              49         212         537        1,026         1,246         1,897       2,198         2,442
Value of Coffee                 -            -            -             57           284         731        1,326       1,764         1,890         1,890       1,890         1,890
Value of Plantain               -            -            135         450            765        900          450          -             -             -           -             -
TOTAL                      88          314          871        1.735         2.896       3.872        4.402        4.879        5.225         5.876       6,177         6.421
Net Benefits                 (2,408)      (2,014)      (2,189)      (1,951)       (  581)     1,809        2,339        2,810        3,209          3,762      4,057          4,339
1/  T-rom Table 1 Annex 8; excludes all cost of resasrch, studies, consultants, village wells, banking services and 40% of
road investments.
21  1975-76 budget for Song County extension services US$42,000 compounded at 10% per annum.
3/  Farmgate econom2ic value of rice, cocoa & coffee based or IBRD price projection for 1985 in 1976 constant dollars (see
Tables 2,4,6, Annex 8).  Plaiutain based on domestic market prices.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
% of Original Estimates
Costs                           Benefits                           Rate of Return*
A                B
100                              100                            21%               16%
100                               90                            19%               13%
100                               80                            16%              10%
110                              100                            19%              13%
120                              100                            16%              11%
120                               80                            11%               4%
100                              100 1/                         21%              16%
100                              100 2/                         14%              10%
* -QA - Family labor shadow wages at 50%.
B - Family labor costed at full market rate.
1/   Project life reduced by 5 years.
2/   2-year delay in benefit stream.






IBRD 12367
lIBERIA                                    SIERRA          G
LEONE C         GUINEA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL                                           LO !      %.
\IVORY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 COAST
PROJECT AREA                                     MONR IA          - 
DISTRIBUTION OF CLANS
50
*     Project Headquarters                                   ___                      _
Proposed Wood Pulp Concession                      G   U   I N  E A
Primary Roads
..Clan Boundaries
- h Chiefdom Boundaries                        *                    W R>IA
---County Boundaries                           /
.._  International Boundaries             i.        KPAQUELLIE
//                 , / * )) Belefuanai
i... sl    *-   /          -PANTA
C0
A       MENQUELLEH
0      _                                                  JORPOOL .
e..t            2- P KPATAWEE:
!ba, . o   .*-------   -.* <                  *-G---k-- ePala/  
t Y*.y*.WALLAHUN;-          *--                 k       Gban
. L.                         .      SA0K             JORQUELL E                  -  
i  BORYEMAH
9    -   ,   : G<baiala  *-   '    X GBARNSHAY :.  *T 
N S U~ENSE          *.>FB,0 4  Ml'
'otots
SHEANSUE 
,  . - -    -/         :            *~~~~~~. :.
:.YAINDAWOUN' c.
.$C, **SENWEINJ
o    5         ip                                  O
KILOMETERS                         IKOKOYAH
,  1p                                         The boundaries shown on this map do not
MILES                                               imply endorsement or acceptance by the
World Bank and its affiliates.
AUGUST 1976






S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D13 
-W g~~~~~~~~~~f
-Ano  , Hnd      s Gon4glll =. ... ...9X  1T4 XA '00\  
r 4t  v  sa        |C   iE        ,s J  r    L    i  
e    ;    0)S: dE0ti  -  ,                          \    Xy                               *e       D 0  f  X ;?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
E  r.    x,:,.'>   qXUNtYi;%\;  '  ''\'0e . A.U0 i \2'&;LS_'\0 \q0  9/ qsx v             't4- 1k 9
i:~~~~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~ EAU N. T: -jy    0. < 0L(   : < 5INO                COUNTY               XQ 
~~~~~~MN                                                     ;   T-WesrvlL8                     S, t, 0'  0 1 _n ;X. ' |






LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICUILTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Ministry of
[A griculture
Piroject Steering
Project                    Committee
. Adviso-.y
Committee
Ministry of
Public Works
Road Unit    e _____                      Project                   Evaluation
Management                   Monitoring
Ministry of Health
Schistosomiasis
Unit
Experimentation ~oopratve                                      CAES
I      | |        Development |
CAES              Survey and                           Commercial
| Registration    r                      Service                         LIPA
NSA
LM  County Land                             L                  LBDI
LPMC          |  Commissioner                          LP                     B
World Bank-16393



