CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 700 LBR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Bong County Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 29, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 700 LBR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 29, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Agency for In-
ternational Development of the United States (hereinafter called
USAID) a loan (hereinafter called the USAID Loan) in an amount of
six million six hundred thousand dollars ($6,600,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the USAID Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BPMU" means the Bong Project Management Unit referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Prior Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Lofa County Agricultural Development Project) dated
August 1, 1975 between the Borrower and the Association; "Prior
Credit" means the credit provided thereunder; and "Prior Project"
means the Lofa County Agricultural Development Project;
(c) "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee established
under the Prior Credit Agreement and expanded to include BPMU's
Project Manager as one of its secretaries;


﻿-3-
(d) "LBDI" means the Liberian Bank for Development and Invest-
ment estiblished in 1965 under the laws of the Borrower;
(e) "AGRIMECO" means the Agricultural Mechanization and Land
Development Corporation established in 1972 under the laws of the
Borrower;
(f) "Project Area" means the Gbarnga, Kokoya and Sanoyie
districts in the Bong County with a total area of about 650,000
hectares, and may include such other areas as shall be agreed by
the Borrower and the Association;
(g) "Feeder Road Unit" means the unit referred to in Section
3.08 of this Agreement;
(h) "Schistosomiasis Unit" means the unit referred to in
Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(i) "Monitoring Unit" means the unit referred to in Section
3.10 of this Agreement;
(j) "Revolving Credit Fund Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and LBDI as provided in Sec-
tion 4.05 (a) of this Agreement; and "Revolving Credit Fund" means
the credit fund established pursuant to the Revolving Credit Fund
Agreement; and


﻿(k) "Advance" means the amount of funds provided by the
Association to the Borrower for the preparation of the Project
under an agreement constituted by an exchange of letters between
the Borrower and the Association dated March 28, 1977 and April 14,
1977.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) On the Effective Date of this Agreement the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself out of the proceeds of the Credit, an amount
equivalent to: (i) the principal amount of funds withdrawn by the
Borrower out of the Advance and outstanding on such date, and
(ii) service charge accrued thereon up to such date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) Ter annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be Tayable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower s1-11 repay the principal amount
of tthe Credit in semi-annual installnents payable on each June 1.5
qnd December 15 commencing June 115, 1Q87. and endinp December 15.
2026, each installment to and includinfy the installment nayable
on December 1-, 1906 to be one-half of one ner cent (1/2 of 10)
oP such nrinrin)al amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-112%) o-P such Prinrinal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hrpby snecified for the purnoseq of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿'7
- I  -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose..
(b) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall establish and maintain, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, the Bong Project Management Unit (BPMU), which
shall have its own management, budget and financial control.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
BPMU shall have five operational divisions: administration and
personnel, agricultural services, cooperative and credit services,
training, and finance.
(c) The Borrower shall employ personnel, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, to fill the following executive posi-
tions of BPMU: a Project Manager, who shall be the chief adminis-
trative officer and responsible through PSC to the Minister of
Agriculture or his designee (whose rank shall not be lower than
an Assistant Minister); the managers of the divisions of admin-
istration and personnel, agricultural services, cooperative and
credit services, training and finance; a swamp development officer,
a land use planning officer, and a tree crop specialist. The Bor-
rower shall also employ deputies with adequate qualifications to
such positions.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cons PVC to nerform, in re-
srpect of tb- Project. inter alin the same activit-rs thqt it hes
been rerforminr under the Prior Prolect.
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1978, establish and thereafter maintain a Project Consultative Com-
mittee at Suakoko to ensure cooperation in the carrying out of the
Project of the relevant denartmnnts and agencies of the Borrower in
the Project A-ea and the rarticination of local farmers in the Proj-
ect. Such Committee shall be chaired by the Suoerintendent of Bong
County and shall include the Assistant Superintendent of such County;
the chiefs of the 6 chiefdoms in such county; th- heads of the local
renresentations of the Ministries of Education, Health, Public Works,
and Land and Mines; the chairmen of the cooperatives included in
the Project, when they are orranized; and BPMU's Project Manager
and Deputy Manager.
Section 3.04. Tn order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts D.3 and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, exnerience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause Part D.2 of the Project
to be completed not later than March 31, 1978 or such other later
date as the Association shall agree.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than September 30,
1978, submit for review by, and consultation with, the Association
proposals, including detailed cost estimates, for the reorganization
of agricultural research in Liberia; and (ii) promotly after the
Association's approval, put such reorganization into effect.


﻿Section 3.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1978, grant to BPMU, except for the areas in Kpartawee cleared
by AGRIMECO, exclusive responsibility for rice, coffee and cocoa
extension services in the Project Area.
Section 3.08. (a) For the exclusive purpose of the carrying
out of the construction and improvement of feeder roads included
under Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause a special
unit (the Feeder Road Unit) to be established, not later than
March 31, 1978, in its Ministry of Public Works. Such Unit shall
have, inter alia, its own personnel, management, eouipment and
separate accounts in respect of the Project, and shall prepare
its operating plan in consultation with BPMU.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain through its Ministry of
Public Works the feeder roads referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section and keep separate accounts for such maintenance.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1978, amend the terms of reference of the existing Schistosomiasis
Unit established under the Prior Project for the purpose of causing
such Unit to carry out Part D.4 of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) review with the Association, not
later than June 30, 1979, the findings of the Schistosomiasis
Unit in the carrying out of Part D.h of the Project; and (ii) act
promntly to take or cause to be taken any required preventative and
curative measures in the event of a marked increase in the incidence
of schstosomiasis in the Project Area.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1978, amend the terms of reference of the existinp Monitoring Unit
established under the Prior Project for the purTose of causing such
Unit to carry out Part D.5 of the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the nroceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their Drenaration,
the nlans, specifications, reports. contract documents and con-
struction, Drocurement and work schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintaine
records adequate to record the proFress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof


﻿- 11 -
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited rep-
resentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to he furnish-d to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Proj-
ect.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Budgetary Control; Funding Procedures;
Accounts and Audits
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause: (i) BPMU to prepar
its own annual budget and, in consultation with the Feeder Road,
Schistosomiasis and Monitoring Units, as the case may be, to preparr
the annual budgets of such units; and (ii) LBDI to prepare the
annual budget of the LBDI branch at Gbarnga, all for PSC's approval,
Such budgets shall, be included, as the case may be, as a separate
item in the annual budgets of the Ministries of Agriculture, Public
Works, and Public Health and LBDI.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BPMU to prenare quarterly cash
flow forecasts indicating costs, revenues and working capital
requirements, within the apnroved annual Project budgets, and to
submit such forecasts to PSC for approval, not later than one
month prior to each quarter.
(c) The Borrower shall cause BPMU to maintain income and ex-
penditure records in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices to reflect its operations and financial
position in relation to the Project, and to provide evaluation data.


﻿- 13 -
(d) The Borrower shall cause BPMU and the Feeder Road,
Schistosomiasis and Monitoring Units to: (i) have their accounts
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their accounts for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning their accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a separate bank
account for the Project at LBDI or at an established commercial
bank.
(b) The Borrower shall replenish such bank account quarterly
in advance through its Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the
quarterly cash flow forecasts referred to in paragraph (b) of Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement, to meet the anticipated payments for
local expenditures.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) authorize BPMU to operate such
bank account within its budgetary allocation, provided that the
Project budgets and the quarterly cash flow forecasts have been
approved by PSC; and (ii) provide, inter alia, for overdraft of
funds from such bank account by BPMU, guaranteed by the Borrower,
to cover any shortfall of funds required for local expenditures.


﻿- 14-
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower agrees that the Manager of
the coonerative and credit services division of RPMU shall be the
Assistant Registrar of Cooperatives of the Ministry of Agriculture
for Bong County.
(b) The Borrower shall, through the Assistant Registrar of
Cooperatives, cause all farmer cooperatives included in the Project
to maintain records adequately reflecting their operations and in-
dividual farmer credit transactions related to the Project. Such
records shall be audited annually by the Registrar of Cooperatives
of the Ministry of Agriculture and may be reviewed at any time by
the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) For the purpose of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall establish a Revolving Credit Fund which shall
be administered by LBDI on behalf of the Borrower in accordance
with a Revolving Credit Fund Agreement satisfactory to the Associa-
tion to be entered into between the Borrower and LBDI not later
than March 31, 1978.
(b) The Revolving Credit Fund Agreement, or any provision
thereof, shall not be assigned. amended, abrogated or waived with-
out the prior approval of the Association.
(c) The surplus funds of the Revolving Credit Fund shall be
invested in short-term deposits (not more than one year) in accor-
dance with prudent financial practices to ensure adequate liqui-
dity of the Revolving Credit Fund.


﻿- 15 -
(d) The Borrower shall cause the funds of the Revolving Credit
Fund to continue to be used, after the completion of Part A of the
Project, for development loans and seasonal credits to smallholders
in the Borrower s territory to aid them in developing and increas-
ing agricultural production.
(e) The Revolving Credit Fund shall not be dissolved before
the end of the scheduled repayment period of the last development
loan granted under the Project.
(f) The individual development loans and seasonal credits to
be financed out of the Revolving Credit Fund shall be provided to
the farmers in the Project Area under the terms and conditions
stipulated in the Revolving Credit Fund Agreement, which terms and
conditions shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(g) The Borrower shall, through the Revolving Credit Fund
Agreement, cause LBDI to: (i) maintain separate accounts and records
for the Revolving Credit Fund; (ii) have such accounts and records
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts and
records for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to


﻿- 16 -
the Association such other informntinn crc,-rning surh account,. and
rerords and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to tire reasonnbly renuest.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not permit AGRIMECO to
engage in any new large-scale mechanized land clearing activities
for tree crop development in the Project Area after June 30. 1978
until the proceeds of the Credit have been fully emnloyed for
purposes of the Project.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause the pricing of innuts
and the terms of credits provided by the Borrower or its agencies
after June 30, 1978 to farmers in the Kpartaree area to be the same
as those applied under the Project.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VT
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) hereof:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the USAID Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
USAID Loan Agreement, or
(B) The USAID Loan shall have become due and
- payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) hereof shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that: (A) such suspension, cancella-
tion, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and con-
ditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in sub-
paragraph (i) B of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following -vents are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the USAID Loan Agreement has been executed and
del.vered on behalf of the parties thereto; and
(b) the Manager of the Arirullral  ervice- Division -1
BPMU has been annointed.
Section 7.00. The da.te March ?Q. 107, ir h-reby src4fied f")r
the purposes of Sectiqr 12.01 of +h- eneral Cnnditinns.
Section 7.02. The nblii'ations of thI Porrower u     +
TV and V of th4q Arrepent czhall -c- nd deterrine on the date
on which the D-velo-rg-nt r-anqjt Aromrnt shall terrinnP o on
a date twenty -rars ater th'e dat- of this Areement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- ?I -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia
Liberia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Monrovia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
6145 (wUI)


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, actinr through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By /s/ Francis Dennis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCTATION
By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
CateEory               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, equipment         800,000
and furniture
(a) Directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) Locally pro-                             90%
cured
(2) Civil works                 400,000           80%
(3)  (a) Recruitment           1,650,000          100% of foreign
and employment                          expenditures
of non-Liberian
staff
(b) Consulting ser-        500,000
vices for Part
E of the Project
and training
abroad


﻿-24-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Administrative and          1,100,000         70%
operating costs,
materials for vil-
lage wells and con-
struction of LBDI
branch
(5) Salaries of local            6oo,0o0          20%
staff
(6) Research and                 450,000          100% of foreign
laboratory facili-                           expenditures and
ties under Part D.3                          50% of local ex-
of the Project                               penditures
(7) Unallocated                1,500,000
TOTAL      7,000,000


﻿- 25 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expen-
ditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services from the terri-
tory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 26 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and
subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) expenditures for Part D.3 of the Project, except for
expenditures on account of rice research undertaken by the Central
Agricultural Experiment Station, until the Association has approved
the proposals for the reorganization of agricultural research re-
ferred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 27 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures -which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project aims at increasing and sustaining farm incomes
in the Project Area by providing farm inputs and strengthening
and developing farm support services.
It consists of the following Parts:
A.   Farm and Crop Development
A program of development loans and seasonal credits, through
the Revolving Credit Fund, to aid in financing the development and
increased production of about 6,000 hectares of upland rice, about
2,000 hectares of swamp rice, about 3,000 hectares of cocoa and
about 1,500 hectares of coffee in the Project Area. Items to be fi-
nanced will be farm inputs, including fertilizers, insecticides,
seeds and seedlings, and farm equipment (power tillers, chain saws,
hand winches, threshers, etc.).
B.   Staffing and Training
Provision of qualified technical and administrative personnel
and support facilities and of training of-personnel recruited for
extension services and Project management.


﻿- 29 -
C.   DeveloDment of Physical Infrastructure
1.   Construction of about 40 miles (65 km) of new, and recondi-
tioning/upgrading of about 130 miles (210 km) of existing or planned,
feeder roads in the Project Area and subsequent maintenance of such
roads.
2.   Construction of: (i) BPMU's central office and about 8 houses
for BPMU's senior staff on the premises of the Central Agricultural
Exeriment Station; (ii) 6 zonal offices for BPMU; (iii) schistoso-
miasis and crop research laboratories; and (iv) about 300 village
wells for improved water supply.
3.   Expansion of the training center at the Central Agricultural
Experiment Station, Suakoko, Bong County.
D.   Support Services
1.   Establishment of farmer cooperatives to facilitate farm
inputs, credit supply and marketing.
2.   Establishment by LBDI of a banking facility at Gbarnga to
provide customary banking services in the Project Area.
3.   Imnrovement of research facilities at the Central Agricultural
Exneriment Station, Suakoko, Bong County and agricultural research
by such station.


﻿- 30 -
4.   Surveillance of schistosomiasis in the Project Area and testing
of vector control techniques.
5.   Evaluation and monitoring of the Project and assistance in
Project preparation.
E.   Technical Assistance
1.   Preparation of an integrated agricultural development Droj-
ect in Grand Gedah County.
2.   Studies on the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
and on agricultural research in Liberia.
3.   A survey to identify the potentials of a citrus fruit can-
ning industry in Liberia.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Orders for vehicles, equipment and other items shall be
grouped, insofar as is practicable, to encourage competitive
bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment for offices, laboratories
and workshops and other items: (i) costing less than the equivalent
of $50,000 but more than the equivalent of $5,000, shall be pro-
cured through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Association; and (ii) costing the equivalent of $5,000 or
less, shall be procured through the Borrower's customary procedures
satisfactory to the Association; provided, however, that the aggre-
gate cost of all such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of
$300,000.


﻿- 32 -
2.   Contracts for civil works and construction materials shall
be procured through local ccmpetitive bidding procedures satis-
factory to the Assocation.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Liberia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:


﻿- 33 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Libera if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Liberia
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Liberia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 31, -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, equipment and
other items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations tc
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inforr
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation


﻿-  35),C  -
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association sha'i rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Development
Loans and Seasonal Credits
The development loans and the seasonal credits referred to
in Section 4.05 (f) of this Agreement shall be provided in ac-
cordance with the terms and conditions outlined below:
1. Develooment Loans
(a) The development loans shall bear interest at a rate of
10 per cent per annum on the outstanding balance, and shall be
repaid as follows:
(i) Loans for the development of farms for coffee
and/or cocoa shall be repaid in twelve years,
including a grace period of four years during
which the interest on such loans shall be
capitalized; and
fii) Loans for new swamp rice development shall
be repaid in eight years including a grace
period of two years during which period the
interest on such loans shall be capitalized.
(b) The development loans shall be used for financing: (i)
in the case of single and double crop swamp rice development, the
cost of hired labor and/or rental of land clearing equipment, con-
struction of water control and storage structures, tools and farm


﻿- 37 -
equipment; and (ii) in the case of coffee and cocoa development,
the cost of fertilizers, seedlings, plants, suckers, hand tools,
land development services, sprayers and processing equipment.
2. Seasonal Credits
(a) The seasonal credits shall bear a service charge at a
flat rate of 10 per cent and shall be repayable after each harvest
for which the credits have been provided.
(b) Such credits shall be used for financing: (i) in the case
of upland and swamp rice development, the cost of rice seeds, fer-
tilizers, spraying services and power tiller service (double crop
swamp rice only); and (ii) in the case of coffee and cocoa devel-
opment, the cost of fertilizers, chemicals, sprayers and replace-
ment tools.
3. Institutions
Until viable farmer cooperatives are in existence in the Proj-
ect Area, the development loans and seasonal credits shall be chan-
nelled for relending through BPMU. Funds to be provided to BPMU or
the cooperatives, as the case may be, for such relending shall bear
interest at a rate of 7 per cent per annum. A 2 per cent management
commission on disbursed funds shall be paid from the Revolving
Credit Fund to LBDI. The cooperaties or BPMU, as the case may be,
shall retain the balance between the interest on the funds received
and the interest or service charge on the development loans or sea-
sonal credits, to cover its administrative costs and bad debts. All


﻿- 38 -
repayments of principal of, or payments of interest or service charge
on, the development loans or seasonal credits shall be deposited in
the Revolving Credit Fund.
4.   Procedures
(a) The individual development loans and seasonal credits
shall be approved by BPMU after screening of applicants by a
credit advisory committee composed of village or clan chiefs,
representatives of farmers, the local agriculture extension assis-
tant, the local cooperative/credit extension assistant, and a
credit officer from the farmer cooperative concerned, when applicable.
(b) Farmers who have been granted such loans or credits shall
agree to: (i) accept input packages specified by BPMU and use such
input packages only for the purpose for which they are provided; (ii)
carefully follow the practices recommended by BPU; and (iii) market
their coffee and cocoa through the farmer cooperatives.
(c) No such loan and/or credit shall exceed a total of
$1,000 per farm family, or such other maximum amount as may from
time to time be determined by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.


