                                                                                       September 30th, 2003

   Public Information Document for the Second Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan


Project Name                      Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan 2
Region                            South Asia Region
Sector                            Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                        P075191
Borrower (s)                      Government of India (GoI)
Implementing Agency               Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP)
Contact Person                    Mr. V. S. Sampath
                                  Principal Secretary ­ Finance
                                  Secretariat Buildings, L-Block, 3rd Floor
                                  Hyderabad ­ 500022
                                  Tel: 91-40-23450742
                                  Fax: 91-40-23452847
Environment Category              U (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                 September 16, 2003
Projected Appraisal Date          October 13 ­ 22, 2003
Projected Board Date              March 16, 2004


1. Indian State of Andhra Pradesh: Background

With a population of 76 million, Andhra Pradesh (AP) is the fifth most populous state in India. It is
predominantly rural and it is one of the poorer states. Per capita income was US$382 in 1999, which is
about 86 percent of the national average of US$446. In 1999-00, 21.6 percent of the population in AP
lived below the poverty line.
In the mid-1990s, the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP) articulated a far-reaching vision for its
economic and social development through the Vision 2020 document. Similar to the Millennium
Development Goals, it lays out specific targets, including an average annual real GSDP growth rate of
over 10 percent between 1995-2020, total literacy by 2010 (subsequently moved forward to 2005),
universal enrollment in primary school, by 2005, a reduction in infant mortality to 10 per 1,000 live
births, and the provision of primary and secondary healthcare to all.
This vision was laid out in a series of sixteen sector strategy papers that were prepared between 1999 and
2001. To implement these strategies, the government initiated reforms on several fronts including fiscal
consolidation, restructuring the power sector, expanding primary education and health care services,
privatizing public enterprises, reducing the administrative and regulatory burden on firms, and seeking to
improve governance by making government SMART (Simple, Moral, Accountable, Responsive,
Transparent).
Many of these reforms have started to produce encouraging results. Poverty and social indicators
improved substantially in the early and late 1990s. The state has been particularly successful in raising
child enrollment levels, reaching 96 percent in 2002. There are several IT enabled initiatives and
programs that have greatly enhanced service delivery in AP. There has also been substantial progress in
improving the investment climate for faster private sector led growth. The quality of power supply has
improved, and power theft has been significantly curbed.
Despite these important gains, the state continues to face several challenges. In particular, AP has yet to
achieve its growth potential, and poverty remains widespread. While the impact of the improved

investment climate is increasingly reflected in greater private investment, the impact on economic growth
is likely to take more time. There also remain deep seated structural factors, which are constraining
growth and faster poverty reduction in AP. GoAP is making efforts to address these problems through its
reform program and other initiatives, and stakeholder and donor support will be central to accelerating
development progress.

2. Rationale of Bank's Involvement

The Bank's current assistance strategy in AP is guided by the India CAS, which was discussed by the
Board in April 2001. Highlighting three strategic principles of selectivity, adoption of a programmatic
approach, and reliance on partnerships, it emphasizes assisting those states which have: (i) chosen to
embark on a comprehensive program of reforms, including fiscal, governance and power sector reforms,
(ii) expressed interest in entering into a partnership with the Bank, and (iii) have a relatively high
incidence of poverty. All three strategic principles are applicable to the proposed operation. AP has a
comprehensive medium-term reform program that includes fiscal, governance and power sector
components. Most importantly, more than one in five people live in poverty.

Together with other donors such as DFID, the Bank has had a long development partnership with AP,
supporting their reform programs through a mix of lending instruments, such as adjustment and
investment lending, and non-lending support in the form of analytic work and technical assistance. It was
one of the earliest reforming states to receive Bank Group support. As part of its support to GoAP's
medium-term reform program, the Bank approved its first adjustment operation--the Andhra Pradesh
Economic Reform Loan (APERL)--in February 2002 for US$250 million. DFID co-financed the
operation with an additional £65 million (roughly US$100 million). The current operation is envisaged as
one in a series of Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans (PSALs), with future assistance linked to
the pace of implementation and to the strengthening of the reform program. .

3. Objectives and Description

The goal of APERL 2 is to facilitate the implementation of reforms that the GoAP has determined will be
central in helping the state meet its development objectives. These reforms cover the areas of poverty
reduction and economic growth, fiscal consolidation and public expenditure management, public
enterprise reform, strengthened governance, and sectoral reforms emphasizing education, health and
power. More specifically, APERL 2 supports the implementation of the following six components of
AP's medium term reform program:
(i) Pro-poor policy formulation and implementation, and monitoring of key poverty indicators

Consistent with AP's Vision 2020, GoAP has prepared a consolidated action plan for poverty eradication
in consultation with various line departments. An important aspect of this work is to monitor and analyze
poverty, which in turn will strengthen pro-poor policies across line departments. Key poverty indicators
are being identified and a mechanism will be implemented for their regular updating and monitoring. The
indicators will then be published on a regular basis, leading to better information on the efficiency and
effectiveness of service delivery to the poor. These actions are likely to lead to better mainstreaming of
poverty across GoAP policies.

(ii) Structural measures to facilitate economic growth

While AP has succeeded in several dimensions of development, its economic growth rate remains
considerably below the Vision 2020 target. Among the many reform programs under consideration by
GoAP, the following two are being supported by APERL 2:

1. Facilitating greater competition in agriculture. In AP, like many other states, agricultural markets are
    highly regulated, dominated by public sector organizations, and are monopolistic in nature. Direct
    bulk sales to prospective buyers by farmers is prohibited. An Expert Committee set-up by GoI has
    recommended that state governments should replace the current regime by an omnibus provision that



                                                     2

     allows institutions other than the Government to set-up an agricultural market, provided they comply
     with minimum standards, specifications, formalities, and procedures laid down by the Government.
     The GoAP is in the process of amending its agricultural marketing Act.

2. Labor market reform. A constrained and inflexible industrial labor market is one of the main factors
     contributing to low labor productivity in AP, which is one of the lowest in the country. The state's
     labor rules are not necessarily more restrictive than those in other parts of India, but substantial
     overstaffing means that industries in AP are disproportionately more affected by such inflexibilities
     than industries in other states. The GoAP recognizes that a dynamic and flexible labor market, with
     necessary safeguards, is the key to a prosperous and vibrant industrial sector. It plans to introduce
     new legislation that will lead to establishment of labor arbitrators in notified areas. This, in turn, is
     likely to result in a faster resolution of industrial disputes.

(iii) Public enterprise (PE) reform: restructuring and privatization

AP's PE reform program has matured. Phase I of the program, which started in 1999, is drawing to a
close. Of the 19 units included in Phase I, actions for sixteen were completed, five units were closed, and
eight were privatized. Phase II of the reform program covers 68 enterprises and will be implemented over
a four year period--from 2001-02 to 2004-05--with a target of an average 15 units to be completed each
year. These targets have been set based on the timing and implementation experiences under Phase I.
Phase II enterprises include: (i) 16 corporations ranging in size and covering a variety of sectors,
including finance, industry, agro-industry, and services; (ii) 43 cooperatives, in sugar, spinning, dairy, oil
seeds, and rural electricity; and (iii) 9 enterprises, where the government holds minority shareholdings.
The target of completing 15 units for 2002-03 has been achieved. Another 10 are slated to be
privatized/closed/restructured in 2003-04 and the process for all 68 enterprises in Phase II is likely to be
completed by 2005-06.

(iv) Improving (a) fiscal discipline and spending composition (b) public expenditure management &
financial accountability

GoAP's budgetary and financial management reforms are critical in underpinning fiscal discipline and
strengthening the link between public spending and outcomes. Significant progress had been made in
adopting a mechanism for effective fiscal control (essentially by adhering to the Medium Term Fiscal
Framework), establishing a credible budget, strengthening cash management within the financial year,
and encouraging greater efficiency in resource use. The critical challenge is to sustain and institutionalize
these improvements. With the objective of deepening the fiscal reform process, GoAP plans to undertake
two further actions: First, to institutionalize the MTFF process through formal legislation, and second, to
confirm government policies on managing debt stock, guarantees and contingent liabilities (including
pensions) in accordance with central bank regulations through a government order.

(v) Improving governance

GoAP's reform program has a broad agenda of governance reforms, encompassing the machinery of
government, pay and employment issues, human resource management and development, transparency
and citizen orientation, and anticorruption. Advances in strengthening governance continue to be
impressive in areas such as e-governance and human resource development. Progress is also being made
in areas such as administrative deregulation to promote private sector growth, and the management of
GoAP's legal agenda. Advances in other areas, such as anticorruption and the reform of human resource
management, have been mixed, but on balance are positive. GoAP plans to continue implementing the
reforms spelled out in its governance reform strategy.

(vi) Sectoral reforms in education, health and power




                                                         3

Education. The GoAP is maintaining efforts to achieve universal enrollment in primary school and ensure
retention and completion at this level. The Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), a new Centrally Sponsored
National Scheme is one of the main vehicles of achieving these goals.

Health. The health system in AP is heavily reliant on the private sector and efforts to improve priority
health outcomes are likely to fail if they do not take this into account. The GoAP is developing a strategy
emphasizing an enabling and oversight role for the state in ensuring that the private sector contributes
strongly to the achievement of the health goals outlined in Vision 2020.

Power. The GoAP is making progress on a second generation of structural and commercialization
reforms, aiming to provide stability and sustainability to the sector's fiscal position, increasing cost
recovery, reducing/containing subsidy support and locking-in reform gains by preparing for the
privatization of distribution business. The government is also planning significant investments to
eliminate power shortages, further increase access, and improve quality of power supply.

4. Financing

Bank lending - US$160 million.

DFID Grant ­ US$80 million.

5. Implementation

The borrower of the loan is the Government of India, but the funds will be on-lent to the state of Andhra
Pradesh. The Government of Andhra Pradesh is the implementing agency.

6. Sustainability, Poverty Monitoring and Social Impact

Successful reform programs require a long-term commitment, especially when politically difficult steps
are needed that adversely affect some groups while the positive overall social impact is difficult to
monitor and lies somewhere in the future. GoAP has demonstrated a strong commitment to implementing
reforms, and substantial progress has been achieved. This is already reflected in improvements in the
state's social indicators. As noted above, the current operation specifically aims to help the GoAP
strengthen pro-poor policy formulation and implementation, and improve monitoring of key poverty
indicators.

7. Environment

In general, GoAP pays serious attention to the environmental sustainability of its reform agenda. An
environmental due diligence process has been introduced for the public enterprise reform program, which
is a component of the proposed adjustment operation. In this context, the Implementation Secretariat of
GoAP carries out environmental audits on enterprises that are targeted for privatization. These audits
identify existing as well as future environmental liabilities in the enterprise. The audit report is available
to the registered bidders for their study and due diligence on the enterprise. The enterprise is asked to
furnish the Pollution Control Board's consents and duly comply with the conditions (if any) before the
enterprise is transferred to the purchaser. Bidders are given one year to complete any required
environmental clean-up. The practice of using technical experts to carry out the audits will continue.

8. Lessons Learnt from Past Experience

    The current operation benefits from several important lessons drawn from AP's first policy based
lending program, two previous adjustment programs in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, and the Bank's
wider experience with adjustment lending.

· Research and experience suggest that reform programs are much more likely to succeed when there is
    strong country ownership. External agencies such as the Bank can help facilitate that process by
    providing technical and financial support. The AP experience clearly confirms this conclusion. The
    state has a well-defined medium-term reform program to achieve the targets listed in Vision 2020.



                                                      4

   The government regularly monitors progress against these targets and appropriate adjustments are
   made. The Bank and other external agencies are assisting the state--financially and technically--in
   pursuing this agenda.
· A series of single-tranche adjustment operations are better suited for supporting a multiple-year
   reform process. In the case of AP, the proposed follow-up adjustment operation is based on a
   continuation of the government's reform program. If the state continues to move forward on its
   reform agenda, future adjustment support, subject to the approval of all concerned parties, is likely to
   continue.
· It is important to institutionalize reforms as early as possible. In the last couple of years, AP's
   budget management reform program has advanced impressively, with the introduction of a medium
   term fiscal framework, a new budget release mechanism, and a draft budget for state-wide
   consultations prior to the annual budget process. These reforms have yet to be fully institutionalized,
   and the momentum of moving this agenda forward could weaken with the transfer of a few key
   officials. For example, the task of revising the MTFF has been delayed. This experience highlights
   the importance of institutionalizing reforms, and the proposed operation emphasizes institutionalizing
   the MTFF process, which would mandate the presentation of a medium-term fiscal analysis and the
   implications for annual fiscal outcomes and debt stabilization targets along with the annual budget.
· Although the pace of progress varies across different components of a government owned reform
   program, it is important to identify the critical elements of the program where progress has to be
   sustained in order for the overall program to remain credible. For example, it is clear that unless the
   financial performance of AP's power sector is continually improved, overall fiscal reforms will
   remain tentative.


9. Contact Point

   Vinaya Swaroop
   The World Bank
   1818 H St., NW
   Washington, D.C. 20433
   Telephone: (202)-473-7688
   Fax: (202)-522-0356
   Email: vswaroop@worldbank.org


   Rajni Khanna
   The World Bank
   70, Lodi Estate
   New Delhi 110003
   Telephone: (011)-24617241
   Fax: (011)-24619393
   Email: rkhanna1@worldbank.org




                                                   5

