Document of
The World Bank
FOR  OFcIAL USE ONrY
Report No. P-4956-TO
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  X    CFA Franc 11
US$1           -    CFAF 305
CFAF 1 million a    US$ 3,279
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCF       -    Christian Children's Fund
CONGAT    -    Conseil des Organismes Non-Gouvernementaux au Togo
FAIB      -    Fonds d'Aide aux Initiatives de Base (UNDP)
FONGTO    -    Federation des Organisations non-gouvernementales au Togo
MFFR      -   Maisons Familiales de Formation Rurale
MPM       -   Ministry of Planning and Mines
NGO       -    Non Government Organization
PDLP      -    Programme de Developpement Local et Participatif
PPR       -    Project Progress Review
SAL       -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SC        -    Steering Committee
SDR       -    Special Drawing Rf.ght
SOTOPRODER-    Societe Togolaise de Promotion et de Developpement Rural
SPPF      -    Special Project Preparation Facility
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL AND PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31
___________________________
I/   The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CPAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJEC( SUMMARY
BORROWER                 s   Republic of Togo
BENEFICIARIES            :   Eligible NGOs, FONGTO, Ministry of Planning
and Mines
CREDIT AMOUNT            s   SDR 3.8 million (USS 5.0 million equivalent)
TERMS                    s   Standard with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:
Government               USS 0.25 million
IDA                      USS 5.00 million
NGOs/Beneficiaries       US$ 1.45 million
TOTAL                    USS 6.70 million
Economic Rate of Return       :   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report        :    Not applicable
Mp  : IBRD 20742
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMWNT INITIATIVES PROJECT
1.       I  submit  the  following  report  and  recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 3.8 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Republic of Togo, for a Grassroots
Development Initiatives Project (GDIP).
Background
2.      The Togolese economy has made some progress in recent years toward
regaining adequate and sustainable rates of growth, supported through three
structuaral adjustment credits (SALs).  Nonetheless, the economy is still facing
major structural imbalances and its growth potential remains to be fully
exploited.   The outlook is one of continuing external consrraints, given an
exceptionally heavy debt burden (debt outstanding and disbursed equivalent to
85 percent of GDP at end 1986) and poor international price prospects for Togo's
principal exports.  For the medium term, the country's growth potential lies
principally in agriculture and light industry.
3.      There are about 75 non-government organizations (NGOs) operating in
Togo, mostly concentrated in the southern regions of the country, working
principally in education, health, and agricultural activities. According to a
recont survey of NGO programs and requirements, NGOs have mobilized about CFAP
3.0 billion (US$9.0 million equivalent) annually in recent years to meet the
needs of impoverished communities. This conservative estimate also identifies
at around CFAF 3.2 billion (US$10.5 million) activities in the 1989-91 period
for which financing has been secured, while an estimated CFAF 4.3 billion
(US$14.1 million) of further activities could be undertaken if additional
financing was obtained. The Government has adopted an active strategy since 1985
to promote rural development through expanded participation by village-level
groups in design and implementation of development programs. In that year, the
Government presented its Program for Local and Participatory Development (PDLP)
to the Donors' conference held in Geneva, and solicited expansion of a
collaborative partnership with NGOs in implementing small-scale development
projects (micro-realisations); about 30 NGOs working in Togo were represented
at the conference.
Bank-NGO Collaboration
4.      The NGO Collaborative Program grew out of Government and Bank interest
to support such development efforts in the framework of the PDLP.   At the
Government's request, in 1985 the Bank granted an advance of US$300,000 under
the Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF) to launch a pilot program of
support to NGO-managed community-level projects. This experimnental program aimed
to establish a flexible institutional framework for collaivoration between the
Government and NGOs, while providing direct financial support for NGO operations.
A Steering Committee (SC) of Government and NGO representatives was established;
program administration was assigned to the newly-created PDLP/NGO Division in
the Ministry of Planning and Mines (MPH). A further US$200,000 advance was made
in 1986 for additional financing of pilot operations and to strengthen the
institutional base within Government for liaison and collaboration with the
rapidly growing and lynamic NGO community.



5.      The program has supported five development initiatives, t,o of which
are completed: an irrigation and small dam construction project in Agbelouve,
and construction and equipment of a dispensary at Manga.   The program has
encountered some difficulties during implementation, as the Agbelouve dam burst
following exceptionally heavy rains (subsequently fully repaired), and the
dispensary project  incurred delays,  due to financial difficulties  of the
sponsoring NGO unrelated to the program itself (though the dispensary is now
running well).  Three other projects, a school building and a dispensary in the
Maritime region, and a village water Pupply program in the Savanes region, are
being implemented successfully.   Project administration and Government/NGO
liaison were weak during the pilot phase, due in part to poor staffing and
lethargy in the PDLP/NGO Division.   However,  the pilot program has been
particularly valuable in identifying and correcting technical capacity and
institutional weaknesses, in clarifying the mandate of the SC, and in gaining
experience in addressing and resolving practical problems of this kind of
collaboration. It has helped to nurture and consolidate the consensus that has
emerged among these partners in pursuing a promising approach to meeting the
development needs of poorer groups in Togolese society in an effective and
flexible manner. During preparation of the proposed project, the Government has
replaced the Director of the PDLP/NGO Division and strengthened its staff. It
has also reaffirmed its determination to support NGO activities through the
institutional framework established during the pilot program, while respecting
the autonomy of the SC.
Proiect Objectives
6.      The pronosed ODIP aims to improve directly the living standards and
working conditiona of some of the poorest communities in Togo. By providing
additional resources to NOCs engaged in poverty alleviation sad in meeting
communities' highest priority basic needs, the GDIP would provide institutional
and financial support to NOos operating in Togo for projects defined and
implemented by them and their beneficiaries.   The GDIP would foster grassroots
participation in project formulation, strengthen the capacities of local NGOs
to prepare, implement, and manage community-level projects, and improve
monitoring, evaluation, and feedback on implementation performance. It also aims
to help the Government and NGOs to sustain an institutional mechanism for closer
collaboration, to encourage expansion and diversification of NGO activity in the
country especially into less-favored regions, and to mobilize additional
resources to support the country's development strategies and priorities.
Project Description
7.      The GDIP would provides (i) grant financing for NGO-sponsored community-
based projects, to be selected in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria
(presented in Attachment 3 of the Technical Annex); (ii) technical support
services to the SC for review and evaluation of project proposals, and for
implementation monitoring; (iii) assistan.ze to the PDLP/NGO Division in MPM to
provide an effective Government liaison and resource center, and for Project
management; and (iv) assistance to the NGO community, principally channelled
through the NGO Association (FONGTO) to strengthen coordination and
complementarity among NGOs, and to carry out a program to reinforce the capacity
of individual NGOs in planning, implementation, and management of their



operations. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report; further information
on the project is presented in the Technical Annex.
Project Costs and Financing
8.      The total cost of the GDIP is estimated at US$6.7 million equivalent.
An IDA credit of SDR3.8 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) would cover 742 of
total project costs, including reimbursement of the US$500,000 SPPF advances.
The proposed grant financing of US$3.0 million represents, on an annual basis,
about 20 percent of current NGO activities for which financing has already been
identified. Togo would finance the remaining 26 percent of project costs: the
eligibility criteria provide for the mobilization by NGOs and their beneficiary
populations of about 30 percent of the cost of each sub-projvit, mostly through
in-kind contributions such as labor, aggregating to about US$1.45 million over
the GDIP implementation period (22Z of total project costs).  The Government
would provide about US$0.25 million, n about 4 percent of the project's total
cost, and would pass on the IDA credit to NGOs in grant form. A summary cost
table and financing plan is in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement
and disbursement are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing events
and the status of Bank Group operations in Togo are presented in Schedules C and
D respectively.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
9.      The GDIP would continue and consolidate an innovative approach to poverty
alleviation and to supporting development at the community level. The approach
has considerable potential as a flexible and effective mechanism for addressing
basic community needs and for channelling resources successfully to this level.
Further IDA involvement in this program is warranted as a means of: (i) pursuing
innovative ways of reaching the poorest segments of society and contributing
directly to poverty alleviation, while enhancing beneficiary participation;
(ii) providing for stronger linkages to the broader economic policy context;
(iii) learning from and complementing NGO proximity to beneficiaries; and (iv)
strengthening ties between Government and NGOs.  It would also constitute a
framework for donor coordination for the PDLP (such as with the UNDP, the other
principal partner in the PDLP program) and enable local NGOs to expand their
partnership with international and specialized NGOs.
Agreed Actions
10.     During negotiations,  the Government and FONGTO agreed to:  (i) the
selection and eligibility criteria for the grant financing; (ii) the composition,
mandate, and operating procedures of the SC; (iii) guidelines for submission of
sub-project proposals for the grant financing; (iv) preparation by October 31
of each year of annual work programs for the PDLP/NGO Division and for FONGTO
outlining their respective activities under the Project, to be submitted for IDA
approval; and (v) procedures for allowing, on an exceptional basis, limited
grant financing for development activities which do not meet the strict
eligibility criteria but which, in the opinion of the SC, contain particularly
innovative or promising development ideas.   These provide for allocation of
grants not exceeding CFAF 2.0 million (US$6,700) to support such community-
sponsored development activities; the total amount of these grants would not
exceed CFAF 60.0 million (US$200,000), or about 72 of available grant funds.
A preliminary list of projects for which financing could be sought under the
project was discussed during negotiations (para. 7 of the Technical Annex).



- 4 -
It was further agreed that a brochure on the ODIP itself would be finalized
shortly for dissemination throughout Togo promptly upon Credit signature. The
brochure would provide relevant information to the NCO coamunity on the goals
of the project, the eligibility and selection criteria, the procedures for
submitting applications to the SC, and the procedures governing accounting and
disbursement of funds.   A condition of Credit effectiveness would be the
signature of a Protocol between the Government and FONGTO outlining the
modalities for their cooperation in carrying out the GD1P. Disbursement for NGO
projects under the grant finarcing would be subject to prior IDA approval of
these projects.
Benefits and Risks
11.     The principal benefit of the project lies in the expected direct
improvements in living standards and productive capacity among some of the
poorest and least easily accessible segments of the Togolese population. Thee$
would be achieved through cost-effective provision and rehabilitation of basic
social and economic infrastructure (schools, dispensaries, wells, storage
facilities, etc.) and through expansion of employment and income-generating
opportunities.  These actions would focus explicitly on the most vulnerable
groups, notably women, who are the principal benefi taries of NCO derelopment
programs. Further benefits include capacity-building of predominantly local NGOs
to define and implement development initiatives, while fostering effective
beneficiary participation, and the nurturing of an institutional framework
favoring Government-NOO collaboration. The ODIP's principal risk is possible
inability of the partners to create and sustain a collaborative environment,
respecting both the independence and autonomy of NGOs, and the development
priorities and strategies of the Goversment. A further risk is that local N00s
may have insufficient technical and managerial capacity to prepare and implement
some projects effectively. These risks are mitigated throughs 1i) strengthening
the SC mechanism for collaboration between the Government and NOs; (ii)
requiring proven NGO capacity for access to the 8:ant financings (iii) explicit
integration of technical review of proposals and detailed implementation
monitoring in the tasks of the SC and the PDLP/NGO Divisions and (iv) assistance
and training to NOOs to enhance capacity in project preparation, and
implementation.
Recommendation
12.     I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 23, 1989



Schodule A
REPUBLIC OF TOCO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND
FINANCING PLAN
Project Costs *                   Local  Foreign   Total         W
--    -----              --(US8 oll I lon)--          Base Cost
¢rant Financing                     3.2     1.1      4.8           77
Technical Support to SC             0.2     0.0      0.2            4
Strengthening PDLP Division         0.6     0.2      0.8           14
NGO Cnpacity Building               0.1     0.1      0.2            5
Base Costs                          4.1     1.4      6.5          100
Contingencies                       0.5     0.2      0.7
Project Costs                       4.6     1.6      6.2
Refinancing SPPF                    0.0     0.5      0.5
Total Financing Requirnts           4.6     2.1      6.7
* Not of taxes
Financlng Plan                     ocal  Forelcn   Total
- ----(    miI Ton)--
Government                         0.25    0.00    0.25
NGOs/Beneficiarles                 1.45    0.00    1.45
IDA                                2.90    2.10    5.00
Total                              4.60    2.10    6.70



Schedule s
REPUSLIC OF TOOo
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Proc.arement method
Project Element                         LC       Othor 1/   Total
Grant Financing                                      4.6      4.0
(8.8)    (J8.)
Const:1Itentoo Services                              0.4     0.4
(0.4)    (0.4)
Equipment and NteorIaln                              0.2      0.2
(0.2)   (0.2)
TrainIng                                             0.2     0.2
(0.2)   (0.2)
Inerental Operatnlg Costs                            0.6     0.6
(0.4)   (0.4)
Refinancing of SPPF                                  0.5      0.5
(0.5)    (0.5)
TOTAL                                       6.7      6.?
(6.0)    (5.0)
Note: Figures In parenthe_  are the respoctlvo asunt finane d by IDA.
1/ Contracts above CFAF 6.0 million (US1 16 400) will be procured on the
basls of price quotatons from three qualtfted suppieors
IDA Dtoburemente
Category                           Amount                    X
(USS)
1. Grant Flnancing                 8,100,000                 100
2. Consultants' Services             810,000                  100
8. Equipment and Materials           190,000                 100
4  Operating Cost                    300,000                  100
5.  Training                         150,000                 100
6. Repayment of SPPF                 500,000                 Amount duo
7. Unallocated                       450,000
TOTAL                         6,000,000
Esimated IDA Disbursements:                                  IDA Flscal Yer
*-(US$ mill  lon)
89 o        80       e1       02      90        94
Annual                                   0.5         0.9      1.2      1.8     0.?      0.4
Cumulative                               0.5         1.4     2.0       8.9     4.6      5.0
* Includes repaymnt of the SPPF Advanca



-7
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
A.   First IDA mission (SPPF advance)                         February 1985
B.   Identification mission                                   January 1988
C.   Prepared by                                              GovernmentIFONGTO
March - June 1988
D.   Appraisal Mission                                        JunelJuly 1988
E.   Negotiations                                            January 23 - 27 1989
F.   Board Presentation                                      March 1989
G.   Planned date of effectiveness                           MaylJune 1989



|X@t S *^E Owos 8**P*lilo"* 1asa. *
stie..o of Saab C,OON$09r11*le 
............................ 0.......,,,..................
(lit *IIoIee .t of Us llar, rs of Posamer I1, 196")
.........      .......... . *.-.. . .. ...    -       . -* . ..-....
orlalual       OPriInl"
Le/Cr No.   Year  lerese r Fors                                   Pr,eslgel 1/  Prlnelsal It   0Disbrel 5/           Wilebue"e  I/
...................... .........................................   ............................
A.  tattaniet o   h l  .naaet OU Lmot futlg dtslkroad                  5.,
......... ..................
3.  Ste4 nt d f   20 Credltus
... ..................
I8 Creilt  Fullpy Olebured                                                          140.88          14-0S               0.00
1169T0        18111    TOO   Phophate  ng,ineerIng A  A                               G."0           S.a                3.n
318140-TO    1to"      TOO  Re.rel Development U:                                   9111.101        38.10               1.81
1,80-1.1tO    19U      TNO   Iural Oevelest I2                                        S."0           0.C0               5.43
1884.tO       198U    TOO   Lmef Water SUply                                        111.0,            8.14              o.n8
18I08.O       1984     TOO   Neagbhte I.roleotplo                                    18.00           1.810              7.11
1118-To      1i        TOO   Wlusatlonsl  mrovemaet                                   1e.4            170               O.
16o-to        1118    TOO   Te alal  Assleteweoe SSS                                 6.O             4.1U              4.07
1748-TO       198      TO    Coffee and CG"   Oewelepent SS2                         17.90            8.74             14.10
10o-TO I0 T8              O   Agrloltural Eatenlen                                    O JO           0.O                 9.55
1184810T      196      tOO   Prlvwte  bettrprlee Oeueloepat                          1180            0.10              13.1111O
1861.TO       1998     TMO   Transprt    abiebllIlteston                             40.00           0.00              4345
15.-TO        198      TO   StruvsUrl AJuetest US                                    48.00           SO." U14.61
199.1TO       19861    tO    Catu   Sester DOfew.      t S/                          18.1O            0.00             14.07
TOTAL                                    8            411.48         3.5                181691.
I/    etdofe anollntleoa.
2/  DlsdrePanelre beteen thb sun of disbursed snd undlebrmed  munts en  the
orIgIntl grlnolPal are due ts fluetatlr se In the   onaeng  rat. between the US eler
and the MR.  2A Credits after 1960 are demInated In af, gains he eaeimene  ratn
prnevIlIng at the slie of Credit negtsIlaos.
8/  Not et effeotive as of 1X381/8
C.  Stt dment of IPC Zetme"tes                                                    -OrIgIal Grest Cm,ta                 --
PIsol Yver CoaPny             Type of  usInes                                     Lan            1                  Toal
1987     Pen Atlantlc    Teatie                                                   7.0             1.1               4 1
TsltlIe Co.
1987     Sotiee Teoo-   Steel Pyloe                                                0.8            0.0                0..
Iels  de
sldenrurgi
1*98      oer"-ToeTo*     Food and AgrIbusInes                                     1.4            0.0                1.4
TOTlAL                                                                    9.3            1.1               11.8



-9-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION As INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT
1.      Government Strategy for Participators Development
1.      Beginning with the 1984 Geneva planning meeting for the 1985 Donors'
Conference, the Government has explicitly recognized the important contribution
NGOs make to the national development effort, especially in agriculture, in
providing and rehabilitating infrastructure, and in mobilizing popular
participation while  fostering greater  self-reliance.   The Government,  in
developing its national strategy for small-scale rural development, sought to
encourage greater collaboration with the diverse NGO community working in Togo.
About 30 NGOs working in Togo participated in the Donors' Conference.
2.      The Government presented to the 1985 Donor's Conference its Programme
de Developpement Local et Participatif (PDLP). The document on micro-projects
(Vol.  III.   Micro-r4alisations)  presented  seven program areas  for donor
consideration.   In descending order of importance, the Government requested
assistance for village irrigation, health care, basic non-formal education,
construction and maintenance of infrastructure, animal production, crop
*        production, and handicrafts.  While providing donors with a general listing of
small-scale projects requiring financial support, the document also discussed
the role that village-level groups and NGOs would play in the execution of the
*         small projects program.   Villagers would provide financial and/or in-kind
contributions to complement the resources provided by donors. The Government
was also concerned that well-intentioned, but uncoordinated assistance programs
by NGOs and other donors would not contribute significantly to the resolution
of pressing national development problems. The new small-scale rural development
program aimed to encourage stronger coordination and collaboration among donors
working in this sector.  To the extent that the Government, particularly the
Ministry of Planning and Mines (MPM), was better informed and capable of
providing to donors specific program needs and priorities, assistance would be
more fo' .ssed, result in reduced program duplication and overlap, and be more
cost-eftective.
3.      Following the Conference, the Government created the PDLP/NGO Division
in MPM.  This unit was given the mandate to coordinate the new program and to
act as a liaison to the NGO community.   It was to be the focal point for
coordinating all micro-projects and local development initiatives emanating from
the PDLP, and for mobilizing and managing donor resources aimed at supporting
such initiatives. At the same time, the Government requested financial support
from the Bank to support this program through the Special Project Preparation
Facility (SPPF). The Government also requested support from the UNDP, through
its Local Initiatives Program (FAIB), and a pilot program (US$ 100,000) was
initiated in 1986.
II.     Non-Government Organizations in Togo
4.      NGOs engaged in development programs constitute a dynamic and diverse
sector of activity in Togo.  The NGO sector is also rapidly expanding as an
estimated 40 percent of all NGOs operating in Togo have been established since



- 10 -
the late 1970S. To provide a more solid foundation for preparation and appraisal
of the GDIP. two studies were commissioned aimed at: (i) drawing up an inventory
of active NGOs while assessing their programs and requirements in the 1989-91
period; and (ii) evalu&%ing NGO capacities in the area of accounting and
financial management. 1/ A summary list of principal NGOs identified by the
survey is presented in Attachment 1 to this Annex. The survey idert4fied about
75 NGOs operating in Togo, and about 117 locations where 'iGOs are active, if
branches of larger NGOs based in Lome, such as the Maisans Familiales de
Formation Rurale (MFFR) and the Christian Children's Fund (COF) are included.
The survey prepared a questionnaire to define the location and type of activity,
and the development programs and requirements of these NGOs for the 1989-91
period.   The financial evaluation included questions aimed at assessing the
administrative and financial management capacities of NGOs. Seventy-five NGOs
(including sub-regional branches in the cases indicated above), or about 64
percent of those identified, responded to the questionnaire; the regional and
sectoral distribution of NGOs in Togo is as presented below.
Table 1: Regional and Sectoral Distribution of NGOs in Togo
Region                       Number of NGOs                    Percent
Maritime                           33                             44
Plateaux                           17                             23
,ntrale                             5                              7
KLra                               10                             13
Savanes                            10                             13
TOTAL                           75                            100
Sector of Activity          Number of NGOs                     Percent
Education/Training                23                              31
Agro-Pastoral                      16                             21
HealthlNutrition                  15                              20
Agricultural Training              11                             15
Socio-Econ. Development            7                               9
Religious                          3                               4
TOTAL                           75                            100
5.      There are a number of large international NGOs, including Catholic
Relief Services, CARE, and Canadian University Services Overseas (CUSO) which
administer multi-regional programs in nutrition, primary health care, training
in rural credit,  and improved farming and irrigation techniques.   These
activities of the international NGOs often complement the regional and local
1/       "Inventaire et Evaluation des Programmes et des Besoins des ONG au
Togo" September 1988.
"Evaluation des Capacites Comptables et de Gestion Financiere des ONG
au Togo* October 1988.



- 11 -
programs of national organizations.   40 percent of the NGOs surveyed were
Togolese organizations.
6.      The inventory assessed the aggregate NGO contribution to development
at around CFAF 2.5 billion in 1987 and at around CFAF 3.0 billion in 1988 (US$8.2
and 9.8 million equivalent respectively) for the respondents. It estimated the
activities of these NGOs in the 1989-91 period foi which financing had already
been secured at about CFAF 3.2 billion (US$10.5 million equivalent). The same
analysis assessed at around CFAF 4.3 billion (US$14.1 million equivalent)
additional activities which NGOs could undertake over the same period if further
financing were to be obtained. However, the absence of responses of some NGOs,
coupled with methodological difficulties in forecasting such requirements over
this time horizon, lends some uncertainty to this assessment. Based on this
analysis, the proposed IDA grant financing of US$3.0 million over a four-year
period, represents, on an annual basis, about 20 percent of activities fo 'dhich
financing has already been secured among NGOs that responded to the sur%ey.
7.      The activities in which NGOs are engaged, and which would most likely
constitute the main areas for which support would be solicited under the GDIP,
can be divided into the following principal categories, though there is clearly
some overlap between them: (i) training and non-formal education: basic
management skills for small rural producers, training for storage and processine
for selected agricultural products, as well as in development of marketirg
techniques; improved extension and crop, livestock, and poultry production;
training of rural women in nutrition, preventive and primary health care, child
care, and hygiene; training in skills development, appropriate technology, animal
husbandry, and income generating activities; (ii) small construction and
irrigation activities:  irrigation systems, construction and/or rehabilitation
of feeder roads, storage facilities, dams, wells, schools, and dispensaries;
(iii) support to directly productive activities: improvement of access to credit
services (and savings institutions) for small producers, farmers, and artisans;
tree cultivation programs, fruit tree reforestation, fisheries development; model
farm youth resettlement programs; product marketing and market development.
Projects already identified by NGOs which could be submitted to the SC for
financing include: (i) a water supply and hygiene improvement program in Agotime-
Batome, as well as construction of four crop storage facilities; (ii) support
to a farmers' cooperative to increase vegetable production, and livestock and
poultry production in Kovie; (iii) dam reconstruction projects in the Kloto and
Haho prefectures;  (iv) construction of reservoirs in Teletou and Kpele; (v)
construction of dispensaries in Gameli and Danyi Kudzragen; and (vi)
rehabilitation of the market in Adangbe.
8.      As the Government established its PDLP/NGO Division in MPM in 1985
(para. 3), and as the discussion of the pilot program for which the Government
had requested Bank support was already leading to greater inter-NGO communication
and activity, the NGOs in Togo decided to create an institutional platform
specifically to engage in the dialogue witn the Government in the framework of
the PDLP and the pilot program. NGOs in Togo have long been active in developing
a platform for coordinating NGO activities and for representing common NGO
interests in Government or other fora. However, under the impetus of the pilot
program, the evolution of the representative body of NGOs operating in Togo has
become closely associated with the developmett of the pilot program itself. The
NGOs perceived the need to ensure appropriate and broad-based NGO representation
on the Steering Committee (SC) that was to be established for that program (para



- 12 -
12).   Selection of NGO representatives to the SC proved to be lengthy and
controversial, as it brought to light a number of institutional problems within
the Conseil des Organismes Non-Gouvernementaux au Togo (CONGAT), the then NGO
consortium. Not all NGOs working in Togo were members of CONGAT, and several
members felt that their concerns and interests were not being adequately
addressed by CONGAT. In addition, CONGAT had established a support organization
called CONGAT-SERVICE, originally created to provide technical support and
training for small local NGOs, which had evolved into an active NGO often
competing with other CONGAT members for donor resources. For many members of
CONGAT, CONGAT-SERVICE's activities appeared to overshadow CONGAT's traditional
and accepted functions of representing common NGO interests before the
Government.
9.      The NGOs convened by the Government after the 1985 Donors' Conference
therefore decided to create a new body: the Secretariat de Liaison des
Organisaticns Non-Gouvernementales (SLONG), whose essential function was to
elect representatives to the SC.    After long and difficult meetings within
the NGO community, and between NGOs and Government, the NGO community decided
in 1987 to dissolve CONGAT as an umbrella organization and to create a new
unified federation of NGOs: Federation des Organisations Non-Gouvernementales
au Togo (FONGTO).   This body, on behalf of the NGO community, elects NGO
representatives to the SC and represents NGOs in discussions with Government,
and in implementation of the PDLP.
10.     FONGTO has recently established a permanent secretariat and recruited
an Executive Director to manage its programs with member NGOs. FONGTO's role
as an active and dynamic federation representing the interests of NG0s in Togo
is developing gradually. Recently, FONGTO has undertaken a number of useful
initiatives, in part with the assistance of the pilot program. One such was a
national conference on the problems of project planning and recurrent costs for
projects executed by NGOs. The conference was well-attended and feedback from
Government, the NGO community and the resident international donor community in
Togo was very positive.   FONGTO plans to publish the results of the seminar in
the form of a practical manual which could be used by NGOs for their own project
preparation activities. FONGTO is also presently receiving assistance from a
Belgian NGO to establish a small documentation center focussed on appropriate
technology. However, PONGTO is a new and still weak institution, not yet known
to or fully representing the entire NGO community, though the PDLP and the
PDLP/NGO Division do not appear to be much better known. The survey of NGOs
found that almost as many respondents did not have dealings with FONGTO as did,
while more than half the respondents did not know of the PDLPINGO Division or
the PDLP program more generally.
III.    The Bank's Role : The Pilot SPPF Program
11.     A SPPF advance of US$300,000 requested by the Government was approved
in 1985 to support NGO-designed and managed development projects through a pilot
NGO Collaborative Program.   The Bank agreed to the Togolese request in part
because the SPPF aimed to support new initiatives to redress Africa's critical
economic and social problems that were emerging in the mid-1980s, and in part
because the Togolese Government had demonstrated its keenness to encourage NGO-
Government collaboration in micro rural development projects and to expand NGO
activity in Togo within a cooperative environment. Furthermore, the quality and
diversity of NGOs operating in Togo augured well for the pilot program.  A
supplemental advance of US$200,000 was approved in 1986, initially to help the



- 13 -
Government develop its institutional capacity for liaison with NGOs, but
subsequently largely directed, with IDA agreement, to providing further financing
for pilot operations.
12.     During preparation, it was agreed that a Steering Committee (SC) should
be created to bring together representatives of the NGOs and the Government in
a single decision-making body. The SC was to comprise three NGO representatives:
the Togolese Association for Family Welfare (ATBEF), Christian Children's Fund
(CCF) and the Maisons Familiales de Formation Rurale (MFFR), were chosen to
represent the NGO community. They were to be joined on the SC by two members
of the Ministry of Planning and Mines (MPM) (the Director of the PDLP/NGO
Division  and  a  Senior  Adviser  to  the  Minister);  the  Bank's  Resident
Representative in Lome was closely associated with the work of the SC. The SC,
initially, was intended to serve in an advisory capacity, providing policy
guidance  and  direction  for  the  program,  with  day-to-day management  the
responsibility of the PDLPINGO Division.  However, the lack of experience of
Division staff in working with NGOs led the SC to assume a more active role in
implementation, though no provision for appropriate technical backstopping had
been made in the initial program.   Furthermore, NGO members of the SC also
participated in selecting projects for a small UNDP-financed local initiatives
pilot program (FAIB).
13.     Following a process of local advertising, eleven NGO project proposals
were received. The funds were used initially to support two small-scale rural
development projects, one in the Maritime region (Agbelouve dam project) and the
other in Kara (Manga primary health dispensary). The Togolese Society for the
Promotion of Rural Development (SOTOPRODER) proposed to build a small dam and
water supply project, with accompanying irrigated farming and fish culture
components for three villages in the Maritime Region. MFFR in Kara was selected
to build a primary health care dispensary in the impoverished village of Manga,
near Bassar.
14.     In implementing the small dam project, errors made on the part of the
contractor resulted in the collapse of that structure during a period of
exceptionally heavy rains in August 1987. This demoralized the villagers and
also called into question the credibility and effectiveness of SOTOPRODER.
Additional technical assistance from the Universite du Benin in Lome was
requested by the NGO after the ir ident, and the Agbelouve dam has since been
repaired and is serving the three village communities, as originally planned.
The dispensary in Kara also experienced delays in construction.  *The MFFR
incurred problems of financial and administrative management unrelated to the
dispensary project, but which negatively affected implementation. However, the
dispensary was opened in early-1988 and is now responding to the health needs
of a severely impoverished rural community. The Ministry of Health is providing
staff and medicines for the dispensary. Three new projects were approved by the
SC in July 1988, and are being implemented successfully. The new projects, which
were not limited to any specific location in Togo, comprise a program for
providing village wells in the Savanes, a rural school construction project, and
construction of a rural primary health facility.
15.     Preparation of the proposed GDIP has benefited considerably from the
experience gained in implementing the pilot program. The principal weaknesses
that the pilot program brought to light were: (i) the unclear mandate of the
SC, and acceptance by all parties of its role in decision-making; (ii) the
absence of clear responsibility or provision of support for technical review of



- 14 -
sub-project proposals and for monitoring and evaluation of implementation; (iii)
the lethargy of the PDLP/NGO Division, compounded by cumbersome administrative
procedures governing submission and approval of sub-projects, which at times led
to substantial delays in program implementation; and (iv) the limited preparation
and implementation capacity of some local NGOs, especially in areas requiring
technical expertise.   The proposed GDIP addresses these weaknesses in the
following ways. First, the Government has reiterated its commitment to delegate
decision-making authority fully to the SC, subject to application of the agreed
and accepted eligibility and selection criteria, and the role and composition
of the SC have been agreed by both parties. It was agreed during negotiations
to provide for the Government and PONGTO each to select two representatives to
serve on the SC.   The structure and mandate of the SC, which is already
constituted, are presented in Attachment 2. Responsibility for technical review
of proposals, and for monitoring and evaluation of implementation resides with
the SC, assisted by the PDLP/NGO Division, and support is provided under the
Project for these purposes.   Second,  the Government has moved swiftly to
reorganize the PDLP/NGO Division, to replace the Director, and to strengthen its
staff. Third, the ODIP includes a component of institutional support to local
NGOs, aimed at strengthening their capacities in project preparation and
implementation, and in accounting and financial management.
SECTION D: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
16.     The GDIP will provide: 1i) grant financing to support NGO community-
based projects, to be selected in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria)
(ii) technical support services to the SC for review and evaluation of project
proposals, and for implementation monitoring; (iii) assistance to the PDLP/NGO
Division in MPM to provide an effective Government liaison capacity; and (iv)
assistance to the NGO community, channelled through FONGTO, to strengthen
coordination and complementarity among NGOs and to strengthen institutional
capacity of individual NGOs.
(i)    Grant Financing of NGO-sponsored Pro1ects
17.     The GDIP will provide financing in the amount of US$3.0 million to
support programs and projects undertaken by NGOs active in the country. This
financing will be made available by the Government on a grant basis to eligible
NGOs. Only legitimate NGOs, with a proven track record in their intended area
of intervention, and with a proven capacity to mobilize resources for the
development of their communities, will be eligible to apply for funding under
the GDIP.  Eligibility criteria for access to the grant financing have been
drawn up and were agreed by the Government and NGO representatives during
negotiations; these criteria are presented in Attachment 3 to this Annex.
Participating NGOs and the beneficiary commnuities will sign a grant agreement
with the SC, outlining the terms and conditions of the grant, using a simple
contractual arrangement developed during the pilot program and further refined
for the proposed Project.  Grant funds will be disbursed as an advance to be
fully justified before further tranches are disbursed; successive disbursements
will follow a Project Progress Review (PPR) to be organized by the SC. The SC
has drawn up, with the assistance of FONGTO and the PDLP/NGO Division,
guidelines and procedures governing submission of appropriate application
documentation for projects for which grant financing is sought (Attachment 3).
These guidelines, along with other relevant information on the GDIP, the



- 15 -
eligibility criteria, and procedures for accounting and disbursement of funds,
were agreed during negotiations and will be published widely in the NGO
community, with SPPF financing, promptly upon signature of the Credit Agreement.
18.     To provide support to experimental and exploratory development ideas,
the Government and FONGTO intend to allow, on an exceptional basis, very limited
grant financing support to development activities at the community level which
do not meet the strict eligibility criteria, for example in cases where a proven
track record or demonstrated results may not yet be established. It was agreed
during negotiations that individual grants not exceeding CFAF 2.0 million
(US$6,500 equivalent) could be approved by the SC for development activities
which, in the opinion of the SC, contain particularly innovative or promising
initiatives that warrant this support, or which aim to respond to the needs of
especially vulnerable groups.   Propcsals for such grants would be submitted
following the same application procedures governing the overall program, and the
total amount of such grants would not exceed CFAF 60.0 million (US$0.2 million
equivalent), or about 7 percent of the total amount of the grant financing.
(ii)    Support to Steering Committee
19.     The grant financing will be allocated through the SC which will have
responsibility for vetting project proposals and for selecting the specific
operations to be funded.  Some projects likely to be eligible for financing,
such as schemes to build dams for village water supply, or irrigation systems,
may require further technical review by the SC prior to final approval, while
others, notably in education and health, will require close coordination with
other Government departments to ensure compatibility with delivery standards
and  integration  into  programming  and  budgeting  exercises.         Technical
backstopping will be provided as required to the SC, which will also be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the projects financed through the
GDIP, and for carrying out Project Progress Reviews (PPR), and through the
PDLP/NGO Division. To help the SC play this important role, and to ensure that
there is adequate ongoing supervision and monitoring of the implementation of
these operations, the GDIP will provide about 18 months of consulting services
to the SC for review of proposals, for coordination with other Government
services responsible for setting design standards or norms, for review of
community development and training schemes to be undertaken through the GDIP,
and for monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects.   Support will also be
provided to ensure close field aupervision of NGO operations financed under the
GDIP throughout their implementation.
(iii)   Strengthening the PDLP/NGO Division
20.     The PDLP/NGO Division has a critical role to play as the focal point
of the Government's liaison with the NGO community and in its pursuit of the
PDLP strategy.  In addition to its UNDP-supported activities and carrying out
the Government's own PDLP program, the Division will serve as the secretariat
of the SC, and as a key source of information and coordination about PDLP and
NGO programs and activities, complementing FONGTO's own work in this area. It
will keep an up-to-date inventory of NGOs active in the country. The Division
will also have an important role to play in coordinating donor activity in
support of the PDLP initiative and in mobilizing additional resources, both from
privatetNGO sources, and from bilateral and multilateral cofinanciers.



- 16 -
21.     To help the Division carry out these tasks more effectively, the GDIP
will provide: (i) support to the secretariat of the SC, through staff training,
purchase of a microcomputer, office equipment and supplies; (ii) the services
of an accountant for the program and of a project analyst specializing in the
agriculture/rural development sector; (iii) regular preparation and updating
of documentation on the PDLP and on the GDIP, including guidelines and
administrative procedures for the NGO grant financing; (iv) 16 months of short-
term consultants' services for preparation and updating of a simplified
computerized data base on projects classified as PDLP activities and on NGO
activities, and for GDIP financial management and auditing; (v) operating costs
of regular site inspections and monitoring of sub-project implementation and
(vi) establishment of a small documentation center to complement the work
already being undertaken by FONGTO in this area.
(iv)    Institutional Strengthening of NGOs
22.     Under   the   proposed   GDIP,   FONGTO  will   take   on   additional
responsibilities. The NGO representatives on the SC will be designated by
FONGTO; FONGTO's role as a coordinating body for activities undertaken by NGOs
needs to be considerably strengthened, if collaboration and exploration of
complementaries  among NGOs  is to be enhanced.    Furthermore,  many NGOs,
particularly the more recently established local organizations, will not
initially meet the eligibility criteria for access to the grant financing,
though as their institutional base and experience grow, they could subsequently
become eligible and apply.   In particular, NGOs presently lacking adequate
financial and accounting management capacities, one of the prerequisites for
access to the grant financing, need to obtain further training in basic
accounting procedures and practices. The GDIP will therefore provide training,
through local institutions, in basic accounting and financial management; FONGTO
would coordinate and manage this training effort so as to ensure access to such
training by NGOs that may not otherwise participate in the project. FONGTO will
also sponsor workshops and training programs on appropriate technology,
technical and feasibility studies for micro projects, management skills and
project preparation and monitoring.
23.     The GDIP will provide limited start-up support to FONGTO in these areas.
It will support: (i) publication of an NGO Guide, an NGO newsletter, and
brochures, manuals or pamphlets arising from project-supported conferences or
seminars; (ii) 16 months of consultants' services for the organization of
conferences and workshops within the agreed work program, as part of FONGTO's
outreach program for local NGOs, notably on appropriate technology, enhancing
the role of women in the development process, environmental control and
monitoring programs, innovations in small scale rural development planning,
health care and nonformal education and training; (iii) the services of a
management trainer for a period of two years to develop and coordinate training
programs, and logistical support for these programs; and (iv) office equipment
and supplies for the secretariat.
24.     Project Costs.  The total project cost is estimated at US$6.7 million
equivalent. Based on sub-projects financed under the SPPF, it is estimated that
about 25 percent of sub-project costs represent foreign exchange costs. The
foreign exchange component of the GDIP is therefore estimated at about US$2.1
million,  or 31 percent of total project costs.   A summary cost table by
component and by nature of expenditure is presented in Attachment 4 to this
Annex. along with the proposed financing plan by component. Base cost estimates



- 17 -
are in January 1989 prices and converted into US dollars at the exchange rate
of CFAF 305 = USS 1. Physical contingencies amounting to 5 percent of equipment
costs are included; price contingencies for foreign and local costs amounting
to 6.3 percent in 1989, 1.5 percent in 1990 and 3.6 percent thereafter, are also
included.
SECTION C: PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
25.     The GDIP will be carried out by Government, NGOs. PONGTO, and sub-
project beneficiaries. Responsibility for implementing sub-projects financed
under the GDIP will remain with the participating NGOs.  The PDLPINGO Division
and FONGTO will be responsible for their respective institutional strengthening
components. Both the PDLP/NGO Division and FONGTO agreed during negotiations
*         to submit their respective work programs for the following year, including
quarterly output targets, to the Association for approval not later than October
31 of each year. The SC will have overall responsibility for coordinating and
overseeing  project  implementation.       Project  administration,   including
responsibility for keeping project accounts and for preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications, will be carried out by the PDLP/NGO Division in MPM,
which will serve as the secretariat for the SC.
26.     Special Account.  The Government will establish a Special Account at a
commercial bank to facilitate timely implementation of project activities, on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Upon effectiveness, IDA would make an
advance  payment  of  US$300,000  equivalent,  corresponding  to  4  months
expenditures.  The account would be replenished upon receipt and approval of
satisfactory documented evidence of expenditures, to be provided by the Director
of the PDLP/NGO division.  Should IDA determine that disbursements were made for
ineligible expenditures, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount
into the Special Account.   The Director of the PDLP/NGO Division will be
responsible for the management of the Special Account.
27.     Accounts  and Audits.    Separate  accounts would  be kept  for  all
expenditures made under the Project, and the Director would maintain records
and accounts for all Project activities.   The accounts and statements of
expenditure would be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA and submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of the
financial year. Agreement to this effect was confirmed during negotiations.
*         28.      Procurement.  Procurement for NGO projects financed under the Credit
will be in accordance with normal commercial practice acceptable to the
Association; contracts estimated to cost more than CFAP 5.0 million will be
*         procured  after  price  quotations  obtained  from  at  least  three  reputable
suppliers.  In submitting project proposals, NGOs will include a procurement
plan for review by the SC. About 74 months of local consulting services would
be recruited directly by the SC, FONGTO, and the PDLP/NGO Division under
individual  contracts  or  through  consulting  firms.    The  qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment of all consultants would be
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for
the use of consultants. Purchases of vehicles, spare parts, office equipment
and supplies, estimated to cost CFAF 5.0 million (US$16,400) or more, would
amount to about US$0.2 million equivalent over the implementation period; these
would be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three qualified
suppliers, national or international. Items estimated to cost less than CFAF



- 18 -
5.0 million will be procured by direct purchase. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Schedule B.
29.     Disbursement. All eligible expenditures will be financed at 100 percent
net of taxes. All disbursements would be fully documented except for payments
against contracts of less than CFAF 5.0 million equivalent, financed out of the
Special Account, which would be made against statements of expenditure; this
documentation would be made available to IDA supervision missions and
independent auditors. Disbursement arrangements are summarized in Schedule B.
The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed over a six-year period, by December
1994.  Disbursement for NGO proiects under the grant financing would be subiect
to prior IDA approval of these projects.   This approval would be given by the
Bank's Resident Representative in Lome, as part of close ongoing supervision of
GDIP implementation.
30.     Reporting.   The PDLP/NGO Division would submit to the Association
quarterly reports on project implementation, summarizing progress made,
difficulties encountered, and proposing any changes or adjustments to be made.
The agenda and minutes of SC meetings would be prepared by the Director and
submitted to the Association to facilitate supervision.  Quarterly financial
statements will also be prepared by the Director and submitted to the
Association. PPR reports would be submitted to the SC along with all documents
required to justify the use of funds already disbursed in order to permit
further disbursement for individual operations, and sponsoring NGOs would
prepare completion reports on their operations within six months of completion.
Upon completion of the Project, the Director will prepare a completion report,
providing a comprehensive evaluation of the results of the project.
AFiCO
February 23, 1989



- 19 -
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGOP
GRASSROOTS OEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
------------------------------------------
LIST OF PRINCIPAL NGO's OPERATING IN TOGO
AIDE ET ACTION
ACTION MAY
ADEP        - Association pour I* Devoloppement Economique dee Peuples
AFAE/CFAE   - Association pour la formatlon Agricole et Economique
AFOI        - Agriculteurs Francais et Developpmemnt International
AFVP        - Association Francals. dos Volontaires du Progree
APEHM       - Association pour I* Promotion de l'Enfanco Handicap.. Mehtle
ASAFED      - Association Afric*in. d'Education pour I D.v.lopp"emnt
ASTOVOCT    - Association Togolaise des Volontaires Chretlens au Travail
ATOEF       - Association Togol*ise pour le Oien-Etre Familial
AVE         - Association Village Entreprise
AVOBETO     - Association des Volontaires et Benevoles du Togo
CAR         - Centre d'Animation Rurale
CARAF       - Corps Africain de Reflexion et d Action Contre Ia FPim
CARE INTERNATIONAL
CARTO       - Centre d'Animation Rurale Tambimong Ogaro
CATHWEL/CRS - Catholic Relief Services
SBM         - Christoffel Blinden Mission
CCF         - Christian Children s Fund
CEO         - Centre d'Educat;on Ouvriere
CENTRE BANLEMAN
CENTRE DE SANTE
CENTRE SOCIAL
CESAV       - Centre d'Education Sanitair. et d'Animatlon Villageols
CETA        - Conference des Eglises do Tout. I'Afrque
CFAG        - Centre Feminin d'Afagnan-4bletta
CFARA       - e ntre de Formation Agricol. et do Rehabilitation des Aveuglee
CFPR        - Centre do Formation et do Promotion Rurale
CFRT        - Centre de Formation Rurale de TAMI
CFVCA       - Centre do Formation et do Vulgarisation de Culture Attel-.
CODHANI     - Cooperative des Handicapes do Niamtougou
CONGAT      - Conseil do Gstion Afrique Togo
CRFFAR      - Centre Rural de Formation Feminine et d Animation Rural.
CROIX ROUCE
CRPA        - Centre Rural do Porfectionnament Agricole
CSAT        - College St Augustin de Togoville
CUSO        - Canadian University Services Ove rses
DAHW        - Association Allemando d*Aides aux Lepreux
DED         - Service des Volontaires Allemands
EET         - Egl;se Evangeliue du Togo
EGESA       - Echanges GOnoraux et Savoir-Falre
Enfance Tiers Monde
EVA/CADI    - Entreprise Villageoise Agricole
FCA         - Foyer do Charite d'Aledjo
FICOVI
FMC         - Freres Missionnaires des Campagnes
FOFCATO     - Federation des Organisations Feminines Catholiques du Tog.
FOPADESC    - Fondation Panafricaine pour Is Oeveloppement Economique, Social .t Culturel
FOYER DES JEUNES
FOYER PIERRE DU PAUVRE
FPPI        - Foster Parents Plan International
FUCEC       - Federation des Unions des Cooperatives d'Epargn. et do Credit du Togo
FVEP        - Forage Villageois pour I'Eau Potable
GARV-TOGO - Groupement Agricole pour le Revolution Vert. au Togo
ILES DE PAIX
INADES      - Institut Africain pour lo Developpement Economique et Social
INARI
JARC        - Jeunesse Agricolo et Rural. Catholique



-20 
Attachment I
REPUBLIC OF TOCO                            PaOe t of 2
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
LIST OF PRINCIPAL NtO'o OPERATING IN TOGO
M.S. MISSION OAPTISE
MISEREOR
MFFR       - MIleons Famnileles ld Formation Rural-
OCoI       - Orgeniestion de Is Charlit pour un Dovoloppemnt  ntegra
OEUVRES CATHOLIQUES
OIC        - Opportunities Industriellzation Center
PLAN INTERNATIONAL
PROJET LEPREUX
PTS         - Projet Technique et Sociaux
SENTINELLE
SOCODEVI
SOROPTIIIIST INTERNATIONAL
SOTOPRODER   - Sociote Togoleise de Promotion et de Developpment Rural
V.E. SOS    - Village d$Entants SOS
V.M. Volcing Mondieux
V.S.F.      - Voter1nelree Sans Frontier.
woCCU       - Conseil Mondial des Cooperative. d'Epergne et do Credit
Source:  Inv.ntalre et Evaluatlon des Programm  et
des Besoln des ONOG u Togo'.
Dr. A. Soedje, Lome, Togo, September 198.



- 21 -
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
COMPOSITION AND ROLE OF THE STEERING COMMITTEE (SC)
I.      Composition of the Steering Committee
The SC is composed of the following members:
-     Two (2) Representatives of the Government
-     Two (2) Representatives of the NGO Community
The representatives of the Government will be designated by
Ministerial  Order  (arrete ministeriel).    The  representatives  of the NGO
Community will be designated by FONGTO.
II.         Role of the Steering Committee
-     Definition of the policies and overall orientation of the GDIP, and
policy advice and guidance to the partners conerned;
-     Programming and plannin5 of the GDIP's actions and resources;
-     Appraisal/Evaluation of dossiers submitted in accordance with agreed
procedures for financing under the grant financing;
-     Decision and selection of projects to be financed, in accordance
with the agreed eligibility and selection criteria;
-     Signature on behalf of the Government of grant agreements with
sponsoring NGOs and their beneficiaries;
-     Monitoring and Supervision of implentntation of sub-projects through
Project Progress Reviews (PPR) avd ex-post evaluations;
-     Supervision of administration of the GDIP, and review of project
implementation reports, and the Project Completion Report.
III.        Procedures for Decision-Making
The presence of three (3) members of the SC constitutes a quorum
and permits the conduct of business. All partners should nominate alternates
to serve on the SC in the absence of designated representatives. SC decisions
should be taken, to the extent possible, by consensus.



- 22 -
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 2
REPW LIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
NCO GRANT FINANCING
ELIGIBILITY AND SELECTION CRITERIA
1. The NOO
The NGO must haves-
(1)      a legal personality, recognized as an NGO by the Government, and in
relationship with FONGTO.
(ii)     a proven ?.rack record in its area of activity, a good knowledge of
the milieu, a proven independent capacity to act and to mobilize
resources, and have been active in Togo for at least two years (this
latter may be reduced on an exceptional basis by the Steering Committee
if all other criteria are respected).
(iii)    a work program in which the initiative is integrated.
(iv)     adequate accounting and financial management capacity.
II. The Project
(I)      The initiative must emanate from the local community and/or the
collaborating NGO.
(ii)     The initiative should aim to improve the standard of living and/or
working conditions of the beneficiaries, who should comprise the
poorest and most vulnerable groups.
(iii)    The initiative should be technically feasible, justified, appropriate
to the social and cultural environment, and be manaSgeable by the
beneficiaries.
(iv)     The initiative should provide for a contribution of up to 30 percent
of costs of the project from the beneficiaries and/or collaborating
NGo.
(v)      The  initiative  should  identify  the  recurrent  cost  requirements
generated by the project and stipulate how these costs are to be met.
(vi)     The  collaborating  NGO  will  be  responsible  for  overall  project
implementation (Maitre d'Oeuvre).
(vii)    The initiative may be a new project or an ongoing project requiring
additional funds.
(viii)   The initiative should specify the measures taken or to be taken to
ensure the effective participation of beneficiaries in design,
implementation and monitoring of the project.
(ix)     The application for the grant financing should conform to the
Guidelines for Application.



- 23 -
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
Guidelines for Application
NGOs seeking to apply for grant financing for their projects should submit a
project proposal containing information on all of the following elementss-
NGO:
(i)     Presentation of NGO and its legal status.
(ii)    Recapitulation of NGO's development and work programs.
(iii)    Statement on resource mobilization.
(iv)     Statement on financial management capacity.
The Project:
Mi)     Origin
(ii)    Context (including other development initiatives)
(iii)    Objectives
(iv)    Description
(v)     Cost by activity and nature of expenditure (Detailed budget)
(vi)     Financing Plan (contributions: NGOlPopulationlPAIDB)
(vii)    Procurement Plan for principal goods purchases
(viii)   Implementation responsibility and timetable
(ix)    Recurrent costs and sustainability
'x)     Expected results and impact on beneficiaries.
(xi)    Monitoring and Evaluation Plan



as-rob-49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A9I~st
7000  -  USOOTO OINVLOPNT 1fAW  po^jU                                    ............
IJC  COSTS S CONPUMT AN0IY IT NATI OF   P           TMUS                              aef3
(UlS 000)
.................................... 4... .  ... . .                                                     .  . ..... .........._....
shNor-    Caquig.t n    Z.awp..                                                   (
Orfol T, p.    pMniteac.  %SI b.o*                                    Couwtle-    rtoo      Ttel
Ceat                  PInseslng Cge.ulWt. & Vehicles sting Costs  Tf,Inlng   Be" Casfs  emolts    Cste,   Cost*
........................ .  . . . . ............... . ........ .. ................. _ 
It   OP   fITN INC TNOtO NQO           4,*             0           0           0           0        4.6 Elt     A. 4.i           n".c
IlS   TeQICAL SUPPORT TO tC               0          I1t           0          a           a.          m                    m       4.8*
III: SR304Th4N  RILP  DIV                 a          144         140         4"           so           0S   e4.03
tV:  NCO CAPACITY  UStLDVNO               0           TO          of           A          70          m         a                  4.U        t
0           a                 0           0            0         0          0            0.0O
i;:; CamTS                      4.116          541         l60         03    t      1U1       3f5
Phyaiqgl Cmntinegnises            0            0           9           0           0            9
Prlie Coetinsael.               49            40          la          70           o          U?
TOTAI. PRW  COSTS                4,704          161          211        $T           Ise       0IM        as        01    100.013
Rofintncing at SPPP Advent*                                                                       m                    SW
TOTAL FPNANCINO    JIRv S          4,754         a0          1S1         5            as        SIM                  6.73



AttSchlnt 4
TOCODD     ~     ~ ~~~
M0AS0RTM  0EVELFBAT  INITIATIYPS OJlT            Pogo 2 at 2
FRfDS FJ1WCJC PIN (IN UN THOUAMAS)
Now
Total                             S.B ft-
Component               Caa      Government     MA       c;larei,
I: .  WAT FINAICINO TO NQOD          4,784           0       3.349      1.435
It:  TEINICAL SUPP1f TO SC             265           0         265          0
IIX: STR4OTVNO P"OU DIV                a"9        2551          29          0
IV:  NMO CPAcrY 8MDO                   2e2           0         22           1
TOTAL PROJWr COSTS              6.212        251       4.465       1.491
Rifinnocng of SPPF                SW           0         80            0
TOTAL FDWICDC                   6,712        251       4.965       1,496
Percent of Total Financing:     100.0,       8.71       74.0C       22.85
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              



IBRD 20742
~~  ~~~      BURKINA                    MAAURITANIA 
I. 
\ SA  A  NA1              '
z~~~~~~~~~
TRANSPORTATION AND
POPULATION DENSITY
TRANSPORT ET DENSITE
DE POPIJLA TION
1975 POPULATION  NSI S                                                   _
tyj By sem < \
79  teSJEONS PER LMAIO  A
7.~~~)                                                   .
1eU5 SB   0 DE  ECI'.                      N   TC    S'N
0  20         63~~~~0 20.  10
.0.5 -60.51
T ~~~~~~~~~OM    G.a  Of  *q_<ia
PP .I  D
R975 POPUU.nOUTOE$9TY Pr OPALeaos                                1988
PVERSON E       
E  _,ON            i>     
n.      *100               JJ.o                                .
.AU   .1 T t rAV I
RRIO NWNDIE M.. F-it                                  _>[
KILOMETERS 1NL8UD^E  - 
C.  nlJ> P 0.                                     . 
b f                /-t   \   ' /  <   *{. ,$7,,MARH 198



