3Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17644 TO
IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
REP1lJBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
CREDIT 1993-TO
April 22, 1998
Togo Resident Mission
AFMTG/AFC13
Afiica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT (CREDIT 1993-TO)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
1989: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 319            1994: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 555
1990: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 272            1995: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 499
1991: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 282            1996: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 512
1992: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 265            1997: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 584
1993: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 283
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CD (SC)        Comitd Directeur (Steering Committee)
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
FONGTO         Federation des Organisations Non-Gouvernementales au Togo (NGOs Federation in
Togo)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
MN  *          Ministry of Planning
MPAT *         Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire (Ministry of Plan and Land
Development)
MPM *          Ministere du Plan et des Mines (Ministry of Plan and Mining)
NGO (ONG)   Non-governmental organization (Organisation non-gouvernementale)
PAIDB (GDIP) Projet d'Appui aux Initiatives de Developpement a la Base (Grassroots Development
Initiatives Project)
PAS (SAL)      Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (Structural Adjustment Program)
PDLP           Programme de Developpement Local et Participatif (Participatif and Local Development
Program)
PDPE (SSDP)  Projet de Developpement a Petite Echelle (Small Scale Development Project)
PPR            Project Progress Review
PR             President's Report
SDR            Special Drawing Right
SPPF           Special Project Preparation Facility
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
* At the time the credit was made, the responsible ministry was the MPM (Miinist6re du Plan et des Mines),
but later its name was changed to MPAT (Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire). The ICR
refers to those as the MP or Ministry of Planning.
Vice-President                Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                      Mr. Theodore Ahlers
Task Manager                  Mrs. Monique Garrity



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATIONSUMMARY ..............................................                               i
PARTI - PROJECTIMLEMENTAT'IONASSESSMENT ...............................................1
Project Objectives ...............................................                         1
Achievement of Project Objectives ...............................................2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................3
Project Sustainability ..............................................4
Bank Perfornance ...............................................5
Borrower Performance ..............................................7
Assessment of Outcome ..............................................7
Future Operation .............             :                                               9
Key Lessons Leamed ..............9
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2:  Related Bank Loanis zand IDA Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .15
Table 7:  Studies Includes in Project .15
Table 8:  Project Costs & Project Financing .16
Table 9:  Economic Costs and enefits. .16
Table 10:   Status of legal Covenamts in the Credit Agreement .17
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .20
Table 12: Bank Resources: StafF Inputs .20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .21
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Report of an evaluation seminai
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its Contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATI[ON COMPLETION REPORT
REPIJBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT (CREDIT 1993-TO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Grassroots Development
Initiatives Project in Togo, for which Credit 1993-TO in the amount of US$5.0 million was
approved on March 21, 1989 and made effective on December 28, 1989. The project was one of the
first projects in the Africa Region attempting to use a participatory approach and dealing directly
with NGOs.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, or three years behind schedule. The last
disbursement took place on February 26, 1998. In addition to the government counterpart
contribution, cofinancing for the project was provided by NGOs/Beneficiaries.
The ICR was prepared by Paul Geli. (consultant) with the assistance of Kossi Eguida (NGO
Liaison Officer, AFMTG). It was reviewed by Monique Garrity (Task Manager for the project,
AFMTG) and Jer6me Chevallier (AFTS3). Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's
final supervision/completion mission in March 1998. It is based on material in the project file,
including some good annual audit reports, a beneficiary assessment and the report of an evaluation
seminar at the end of 1997 (appendix C). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by offering views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (appendix A), by preparing its own
evaluation of the project's execution (appenclix B), and by commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT (CREDIT 11993-TO)
EVAL UATIONSUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    Since 1985 the Government had adopted an active strategy to promote rural development
through expanded participation by village.-level groups in design and implementation of development
programs. In that year, the Government presented its Program for Local and Participatory
Development (PDLP) during the first Donors' conference held in Lome, and solicited expansion of a
collaborative partnership with NGOs in implementing small-scale development (SSD) projects. The
Bank-NGO collaboration grew out of Government and Bank interest to support such development
efforts in the framework of the PDLP. The Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF) financed an
experimental program aimed at establishing a flexible institutional framework for collaboration
between the Government and the rapidly growing and dynamic NGO community, while providing
direct financial support for NGO operations.
Project Objectives.
2.    According to the President's Report, the Grassroots Development Initiatives Project (GDIP)
aimed to improve directly the living standards and working conditions of some of the poorest
communities in Togo. By providing additional resources to NGOs engaged in poverty alleviation
and in meeting communities' highest priority basic needs, the GDIP was to provide institutional and
financial support to NGOs operating in Togo for projects defined and implemented by them and their
beneficiaries. The GDIP was to foster grassroots participation in project formulation, strengthen the
capacity of local NGOs to prepare, implement and manage community-level projects, and improve
monitoring, evaluation and feedback on implementation performance. It also aimed to help the
Government and NGOs to sustain an institutional mechanism for closer collaboration, to encourage
expansion and diversification of NGO activity in the country, especially into less-favored regions,
and to mobilize additional resources to support the country's development strategies and priorities.
The project objectives were not changed during implementation. The project consisted of four
components: (i) grant financing of SSD sub-projects: (ii) technical support to Steering Committee;
(iii) strengthening the PDLPINGO division in the Planning Ministry; and (iv) institutional
strengthening of NGOs. Two covenants dealing with eligibility and selection criteria and work
programs were expected to promote the achievement of project objectives.
3.    The project's objectives were clear, although they could have been more precise. They were
realistic and important for Togo, as well as for the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
project itself was not particularly compilex; but it was risky, since the cooperation between
Government and NGOs could not be taken for granted.



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results.
4.     Although rather slow, implementation has been on balance satisfactory, with apparently
more emphasis put on the NGO-sponsored and community-based small-scale development (SSD)
sub-projects than on strengthening the capacity of local NGOs and beneficiary groups. 65 percent of
SSD sub-projects have been income-generating activities, and 35 percent have been for basic social
infrastructure and equipment. Given the pilot nature of the project, its impact could not be expected
to be that significant, but nevertheless overall achievements can be assessed as "partial". A rating of
"substantial" would even be justified in a few areas; this is the case in particular for the institutional
development objective of fostering cooperation between Government and NGOs, although not all
NGOs are fully satisfied with the improvements that have been made. It is likely that the modest
achievements of the project will be maintained. Government and NGOs have learned to work
together; and the partnership that has been established is likely to continue and to be further
developed. Also, the use of microprojects as an instrument for poverty alleviation as well as
participatory development has become part of the government strategy.
5.     The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US$7.56 million, compared to the President's
Report estimate of US$6.70 million, or a 13 percent increase. IDA disbursements in dollars were
more than originally forecast, but Government and beneficiarieslNGOs also contributed more than
the original estimates. The project took three years longer to complete than estimated at appraisal.
6.     The factor that affected project implementation the most was the political and economic
crisis of the early 1990s. Other negative factors included the uneven distribution of NGOs across
the country and their poor financial and technical capacity; the difficulties experienced by
beneficiaries to provide the minimum contribution of 30 percent of the costs of sub-projects; and the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994. That the Bank Resident Mission was responsible for
task management was a plus for the project.
7.     The Bank performance on this project has been satisfactory at the identification stage and
for supervision, but somewhat deficient for preparation assistance and appraisal. The Borrower
performance can be rated as satisfactory for preparation, implementation and covenant compliance.
8.    The outcome of the Project is satisfactory overall.
Sumimary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
9.     From 1990 to 1997, 563 sub-projects (representing 11 percent of the requests received)
sponsored by 51 NGOs have been approved and implemented primarily in rural areas. The sub-
projects have been relatively well distributed among the five regions of the country, but not
necessarily so within each region. Of all the sub-projects, 38 percent were for livestock (mainly
small livestock), 35 percent were for basic social infrastructure and equipment (such as wells and
mills), 19 percent for agricultural production, 5 percent for agro-industries, and 3 percent for
forestry, handicraft and micro-finance sub-projects. The average cost of sub-projects was less than
US$6,000. The beneficiaries were 368 associations (of at least 7 people) for the income-generating
activities, and 195 village communities for the small basic social infrastructures and equipment
(wells, mills, storage facilities, schools, small bridges, health posts). About 5 percent of the sub-
projects benefited women exclusively, but most other sub-projects benefited in various degrees
women as well as men. The sub-projects generated employment for about 3,000 people in rural
areas, and improved the living and working conditions of the 500,000 inhabitants (more than 10



- iii -
percent of Togo's population) of those 195 villages. A beneficiary assessment carried out in the
second half of 1997 shows a substantial improvement in the quality of life of the beneficiaries. On
the other hand, the impact of the institutional development components has been limited.
10.   The Government has diligently pursued the search for financing for programs of micro-
projects. Many donors are at present finamcing activities similar to the Grassroots Development
Initiatives Project (GDIP). IDA itself is considering a follow-up project that would consist of
regional social fund agencies operating outside of govermment under the coordination of an umbrella
organization. The decentralized approach takes into account the fact that Togo has five natural
regions, which have distinct ethnic, geographic and economic characteristics. The design of the new
project, which would finance basic social infrastructures, capacity building and eventually
productive micro-projects, takes into account lessons learned from the implementation of the GDIP
and other micro-projects operations. The new project would continue most of the activities begun
under the GDIP but with different implementation arrangements to ensure more independence from
Government. A greater role will be played by NGOs and civil society for greater responsiveness to
local needs.
11.    The following lessons, some of which could also apply to many other projects or have even
become standard requirements on more recent projects, can be learned from the implementation of
this Grassroots Development Initiatives Project (GDIP):
* The building of a relationship between Government and NGOs is a time-consuming exercise,
particularly if the parties are not obviously willing to work together as partners from the
beginning.
= For a project consisting of a multitude of micro-projects scattered in rural areas and to be
implemented with the assistance of NGOs, a participatory approach involving all stakeholders
(beneficiaries and NGOs) in the design, management and execution of the project is essential.
Government's role is to provide policy guidance and to approve the rules of the game (manual of
procedures), but not to be involved in lhe day-to-day management of the project. Within that
framework, the operational autonomy of the responsible entity of the project is extremely
important.
* The eligibility and appraisal criteria and the procedures to be followed for the review and
approval of sub-projects need to be spelled out in detail in a manual of procedures to provide a
more objective basis for the implementation by the responsible entity of micro-projects like those
financed under the GDIP. Once done, there is no need for requiring the prior approval of the
Bank (nor of the Govermment, for that matter) for all sub-projects, as long as the criteria listed in
the manual are met.
* When intermediaries are key actors in a project (like the sponsoring NGOs in this case), it is
important to have appropriate eligibility criteria and preselection process to ensure that those
intermediaries have the necessary qualifications and experience to do the work. The preselection
of NGOs must determine whether they have the technical competence and financial capacity to
meet their obligations for carrying out sub-projects.
* Well-designed training programs for NGOs, as well as for associations or groups of
beneficiaries, should be an integral part of the operation and should be a priority. The existence



- iv -
of a clear legal framework defining the responsibilities of NGOs and other stakeholders would
also help.
•  A contribution to the costs of sub-projects by beneficiaries is important as a test of ownership
and as a means to ensure that the sub-projects will be properly operated and maintained, but it
must not be set too high so as to disqualify the poorest beneficiaries. Contributions in cash
and/or in kind (such as local materials and labor) of about 10 to 15 percent for basic social
infrastructure and about 20 percent for income-generating activities would be appropriate
(instead of the 30 percent contribution required in this project).
*  The sustainability of sub-projects, particularly those for infrastructure and equipment, cannot be
achieved unless there is some form of organization or mechanism (including the collection of
funds, as required) put in place for operation and maintenance after the end of construction.
Basic social infrastructure sub-projects could also be implemented by the project implementation
unit under delegated contract management without the participation of an NGO, provided that
the beneficiaries are organized to make their concerns known and to contribute to the costs of the
sub-projects, as well as to take care of their operation and maintenance.
*  In order to ensure that sponsoring NGOs provide the necessary support to beneficiaries for the
preparation, execution and operation of sub-projects, it is appropriate to compensate them for at
least part of the additional expenses that they incur for that purpose. A remuneration of about
10 to 15 percent of the costs of sub-projects would be adequate in most cases.
*  In addition to enthusiasm, dedication, money and contribution in kind, the successful
implementation of micro-projects also requires technical expertise. Arrangements must be made
to ensure that such expertise is available during project implementation, either as an integral part
of project design or during the course of supervision, including the carrying out of periodic
technical audits.
*  Income-generating activities, which usually benefit a small number of individuals and which
should definitely be financially viable, should be financed by loans, instead of grants, to
encourage financial discipline on the part of beneficiaries. Although the NGO or intermediary
could receive the money as a grant, it should, in turn, lend the money to beneficiaries. In this
way, it can establish a revolving fund that will allow it to meet the needs of more beneficiaries.
*  More often, sub-projects in execution lack revolving fund.
*  In order to ensure that the sub-projects have an impact on beneficiaries and on the development
of the area, emphasis should be put on mini-programs presented by NGOs.
*  Sub-projects that are scattered over the national territory have less impact on the disadvantaged
zones. Mini-programs should be developed in specific zones.
*  In addition to the sub-projects' economic and social aspects, emphasis should be put on the
organizational reinforcement of grassroots communities.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RE]PUBLIC OF TOGO
GRASSROOTS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT (CREDIT 1993-TO)
PARTI - PRO.JECT i!MPLEMENTA TIONASSESSMENT
Project Objectives
1.    According to the President's Report (there was no Staff Appraisal Report for that
operation), the Grassroots Development Initiatives Project (GDIP) aimed to improve directly the
living standards and working conditions of the poorest communities in Togo. By providing
additional resources to NGOs engaged in poverty alleviation and in meeting communities' highest
priority basic needs, the GDIP was to provide institutional and financial support to NGOs operating
in Togo for projects defined and implemented by them and their beneficiaries. The GDIP was to
foster grassroots participation in project formulation, strengthen the capacity of local NGOs to
prepare, implement and manage communlity-level projects, and improve monitoring, evaluation and
feedback on implementation performance. It also aimed to help the Government and NGOs to sustain
an institutional mechanism for closer collaboration, to encourage expansion and diversification of
NGO activity in the country, especially into less-favored regions, and to mobilize additional
resources to support the country's development strategies and priorities. The project objectives were
not changed during implementation, but the poverty alleviation objective was informally
reformulated as an objective of testing methods and ways to address poverty issues in rural Togo in
a cost efficient manner.
2.    To achieve the above objectives, the project consisted of the following four components: (i)
grant financing of NGO-sponsored projects: (ii) technical support to Steering Committee (SC); (iii)
strengthening the PDLP/NGO division in the Ministry of Planning (MP); and (iv) institutional
strengthening of NGOs. The GDIP was to be carried out by Government, FONGTO NGOs
members --FONGTO is the Federation of NGO in Togo--, and sub-project beneficiaries.
Responsibility for implementing sub-projects remained with the participating NGOs; the
PDLP/NGO division and FONGTO were responsible for their respective institutional strengthening
components; and the Steering Committee (SC) had overall responsibility for coordinating and
overseeing project implementation. Project administration was to be carried out by the PDLP/NGO
division in MP, which was also to serve as the secretariat for the SC.
3.    The project's objectives were clear but could have been more precise, particularly for the
objective of improving the living standards of the poorest, in order to facilitate targeting. They were
designed on the basis of a thorough assessrnent of the needs of the poor segments of the population in
the rural areas. The project was seen, at that time, as an attempt to fight poverty although this was
not clearly endorsed by donors, as is now the case. In view of the suspicion, or even outright
opposition to the role of NGOs, which then prevailed, fostering cooperation between Government
and NGOs may have been more important than the implementation of community-based small-scale
development (SSDs) projects. The objectives were important for Togo which went through a social
and economic crisis with an increase in poverty, as well as for the Bank's Country Assistance



-2-
Strategy (CAS). In the short-term, this was the only instrument available to deal with the poorest
segments of the population. Also, the project turned out to be very important for the Bank/country
dialogue, since during the political turmoil it remained the only active Bank-financed project in the
country. Compared to the size of the other projects that IDA financed at the time, it was a small
project, and it was effectively a pilot project. The project's objectives turned out to be realistic.
Even the objective of developing a partnership between Government and NGOs, which could have
been iquestioned at the time as totally unrealistic, met with some degree of success.
4.     Although the project included several components, it was not particularly complex. To the
extent that the procedures and criteria were not very detailed, this left a great flexibility for
implementation. It involved the implementation of small projects, which were straightforward, but
scattered all over the country. The project's risks were properly assessed in the President's Report
as the possible inability of the partners to create and sustain a collaborative environment, respecting
both the independence and autonomy of NGOs and the development priorities and strategies of the
Govermment. Also, the project was risky in the sense that NGOs had fairly limited capacity, and that
is why the project included assistance and training to NGOs to enhance their capacity in project
preparation and implementation. To the extent that the project rested on the political will of
Togollese authorities to really work with NGOs, it was demanding for Government; on the other
hand, implementation of sub-projects was the responsibility of NGOs/beneficiaries and was not,
therefore, a major burden for Government and the PDLP/NGO division.
Achievement of Project Objectives
5.     The assessment of the project's success in achieving its major objectives must take into
account differences among the four components. One has to distinguish between judgments that can
be passed on the project as a whole and which are reflected in Table 1 of Part II, and more qualified
commtlents that can be made on individual components.  Also, the criteria for judging the
achievements of objectives were not quantified at all in the President's Report. Finally, the design of
the project, which is discussed below under the Bank and Borrower performance, was not the most
appropriate for achieving the project's objectives. For example, the minimum contribution of 30
percent of the costs of SSD sub-projects required from beneficiaries and sponsoring NGOs, which is
high, might have eliminated very poor groups. On the other hand, this project is one of those in
which the beneficiaries play a major role under the involved NGOs guidance. The setting up of a
steering committee grouping various stakeholders was appropriate to select micro projects on a
consensus basis.
6.    For the project as a whole, achievements can be assessed as "partial" for institutional
development, physical objectives, poverty reduction, gender issues and private sector development;
other objectives listed in Table 1 do not apply. Given the pilot nature of the project, its impact
cannot be expected to be that significant, but nevertheless an overall rating of "partial" appears
justified. Moreover, in a number of areas, the achievements can even be assessed as "substantial".
This is the case in particular for the institutional development objective of fostering cooperation
between Government and NGOs, although not all NGOs are fully satisfied with the improvements
that have been made.



-3-
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.     The Borrower's report in Appendix B  provides a comprehensive picture of the
implementation record for the project, including a description of the problems that have been
encountered. Although rather slow, implementation has been on balance satisfactory, with apparently
more emphasis put on the NGO-sponsored and community-based small-scale development (SSD)
sub-projects than on strengthening the capacity of local NGOs and beneficiary groups.
8.     The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US$7.56 million, compared to the President's
Report estimate of US$ 6.70 million, or a 13 percent increase. Because of the increase in the dollar
value of the SDR, IDA disbursements in dollars were more than originally forecast (+8 percent, but
Government and beneficiaries/NGOs also contributed more than the original estimates (+20 percent
and 28 percent, respectively).  65 percent of SSD sub-projects have been income-generating
activities, and 35 percent have been for basic social infrastructure and equipment.  A high
percentage of expenditures has been for investments, even for income-generating activities, with a
consequent underestimation of working capital requirements likely to create problems for the
operating phase. The project took three years longer to complete than estimated at appraisal and,
therefore, the closing date of the credit had to be extended by three years. The political and
economic turmoil of 1991-1993 accounts for part of the delay; also, the implementation schedule
was somewhat unrealistic since the project was not fully prepared and the start-up phase was bound
to be slow. In any event, the building of a relationship (in this case, the partnership between
Government and NGOs) is a time-consuming exercise.
9.    A number of factors, positive and negative, affected project implementation.  In the
assessment below, the participating NGOs, rather than the PDLP/NGO Division in the MP, are
considered to be the "implementing agency" category, since they were really the ones responsible for
implementing sub-projects.
10.   Among the factors not generally subject to Govermment control, the factor that affected
project implementation the most was the political and economic crisis, which started towards the end
of 1990 and lasted until 1994. On the one hand, the rather chaotic situation that existed in the
capital and the breakdown of the political systems and administration perturbed project
implementation (slow-down of activities of the Project Implementation Unit and of the productive
associations because of disruptions in supplies and the absence of markets for the products) and
contributed to delays. At the same time, that situation also provided a window of opportunity for
NGOs and urban residents who had returned to rural areas to undertake sub-projects at the village
level; in that sense, the period of political turmoil had a favorable impact on the project. From that
point, the project entered a period of growing demands which, due to lack of funds, could not be
satisfied. A second factor is the interference of political actors in the selection process. The Project
Implementation Unit was often solicited to back-up sub-projects located in the village of a minister
independently of the selection criteria. However, the fact that the selection decision was in the hands
of the Steering Committee (SC) prevented such abuses on a large scale. A third factor is the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 19,94, with the consequent increase in prices. Finally, the
low ceiling of the Special Account did not permit the concurrent start-up of all sub-projects
approved by the Steering Committee.
11.    The performance of the Bank and other donors also played a role. In certain areas, the Bank
was involved to ensure the availability of technical expertise (such as for livestock, with the support
of the PNPE - Programme National du Petit Elevage), but it could have done more in other areas.



- 4 -
That the task management was by the Bank Resident Mission was a plus for the project. On the
negative side, the ceiling for the Special Account was rather low, and despite repeated requests from
Government, the Bank never agreed to an increase in the Special Account ceiling.
12.   Beneficiaries encountered a number of problems that affected project implementation: (i)
difficulty in providing the minimum contribution of 30 percent of the costs of sub-projects; (ii) land
tenure problems experienced by associations; (iii) illiteracy of many beneficiaries that compelled
them to be represented by third parties in dealing with banks for the management of funds allocated;
and (iv) the lack of competencies of local language in communicating with the populations in the
villages - the sensitization campaign for the Local and Participatory Development Program (PDLP)
and discussions on sub-projects were often weakened because significant numbers of village elders,
association/group leaders and local government officials did not understand French and messages
required (often highly abbreviated) translation into local languages, or one had to rely on
intermediary NGOs to express the "views" of beneficiaries.
13.   Regarding the implementing agencies, the uneven distribution of NGOs across the country
and their poor financial and technical capacity affected project implementation negatively. Some
NGOs were unwilling to present sub-projects because they were unablle to cover the additional
expenses incurred due to the activity, and for some of those who participated, their weak financial
and technical capacity prevented them from complying with their obligations to provide support and
training The fact that participation was restricted to NGOs members of FONGTO limited the
number of eligible NGOs (in the mid 80s, there were few NGOs) and some kind of screening
mechanism was necessary, and it does not seem that there was any viable alternative to the use of
FONGTO for that purpose.
14.   The December 1994 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) concluded that the
original objectives of the Project were still valid but that ways had to be found to ensure greater
ownership of sub-projects by beneficiaries and greater sustainability of the sub-projects. An action
plan to increase the participation of all stakeholders in grassroots communities development formed
the basis for extending the closing date from December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1996. The plan
called for beneficiaries to contribute at least 5 percent of the costs of the sub-projects in cash, with
part of this contribution allocated to cover the cost of supervision and monitoring of the sub-projects
by the sponsoring NGOs. Furthermore, it was agreed that the financing of social infrastructure
through the GDIP should be linked to the creation of a participatory fund from the beneficiaries to
cover the recurrent costs and that special checks would be used to transfer money from PDLP/NGO
to beneficiaries accounts to prevent misuse of funds. It is not clear how much of this action plan
was actually implemented.
Project Sustainability
15.   It is likely that the achievements of the project will be maintained, particularly those related
to the objective of fostering cooperation between Government and NGOs. Although there are still
some problems, Government and NGOs have learned to work together, and in May 1992,
Govermnent issued a decree to facilitate NGOs' activities in Togo. The partnership that has been
established is likely to continue and to be further developed, since at present many donors are
interested in working with NGOs. Also, the use of microprojects as an instrument for poverty
alleviation as well as participatory development have become part of the government strategy. The
participatory approach adopted by the GDIP and the use of appropriate technology for sub-projects
implementation contributed to the ownership of sub-projects by beneficiaries. However, more could



- 5 -
have been done to ensure that the beneficiaries participate fully in all stages of the cycle of the sub-
projects and to help them plan for sub-project management after the implementation period.
Regarding revenue-earning micro-projects, to the extent that the beneficiaries do not have any
repayment obligations, they may be inclined to abandon sub-projects that are not doing too well in
favor of new activities. One would hope, however, that the achievements will be maintained because
most of the micro-projects are run by organized groups for which the sub-projects are daily activities
that generate cash.  In addition to the availability of markets for their products, the
viability/sustainability of the micro-projects is dependent on the management capability of the
groups, capability which the Project helped to develop. For the social infrastructure sub-projects,
personnel costs (such as for teachers and nurses) will be covered by the Central Government and
routine maintenance costs will be covered by Local Governments.
16.   The Government has diligently pursued the search for financing for programs of micro-
projects. Many donors are at present linancing activities similar to the Grassroots Development
Initiatives Project (GDIP). IDA itself is considering a follow-up project that would consist of
regional social fund agencies operating outside of government under the coordination of an umbrella
organization. The decentralized approach takes into account the fact that Togo has five natural
regions, which have distinct ethnic, geographic and economic characteristics. The design of the new
project, which would finance basic social infrastructures, capacity building and eventually
productive micro-projects, takes into account lessons learned from the implementation of the GDIP
and other micro-projects operations. The new project would continue most of the activities begun
under the GDIP but with different implementation arrangements to ensure more independence from
Government. A greater role will be playe,d by NGOs and civil society for a greater responsiveness to
local needs.
Bank Performance
17.   The discussion in the section on 'Implementation Record" of the major factors that affected
the project already covers some aspects of the Bank performance. The Bank performance on this
project has been satisfactory at the identification stage and for supervision, but somewhat deficient
for preparation assistance and appraisal. As mentioned earlier, the project was very important for
Togo and for the Bank's country assistance strategy. The idea of a pilot project to enlist NGOs
participation for poverty alleviation was innovative at the time and was responsive to changes in
circumstances and development priorities in Togo. Therefore, the Bank role in project identification
can be assessed as satisfactory.
18.   The Bank performance for preparation assistance (and also for appraisal, to the extent that
appraisal covered more or less the same aspects as preparation but did not involve an independent
review of work done during preparation) was not fully satisfactory. It seems that time was spent on
an inventory of NGOs and an assessment of the activities that they could undertake if additional
financing were made available to them, certainly a useful input for project design. On the other
hand, the procedures for the processing of sub-projects, including the eligibility and evaluation
criteria and the operating modalities of selection and implementation, were not sufficiently detailed
or inappropriate. Some essential criteria:, such as a ceiling for grant financing for sub-projects or a
minimum financial rate of return to be met in order for an income-generating activity to be
acceptable, were totally missing. CertaLin requirements, such as the 30 percent contribution by
beneficiaries, which may have been acceptable for income-generating activities, were far too
demanding for basic social infrastructure sub-projects. In other respects, the financing of income-
generating activities by grants was not demanding enough and inappropriate (although the project



-6-
could have made grants to NGOs, with the understanding that those NGOs would in turn lend the
money to the final beneficiaries to set up a revolving fund and ensure the sustainability/replicability
of the operation). A positive aspect was the great flexibility given to the PDLP/NGO Division and
NGOs for sub-project implementation, including for procurement and disbursement. However,
disbursements for all NGOs sub-projects under the grant financing were subject to prior IDA
approval; this requirement put too much of a burden on Bank staff and was not in itself conducive to
capacity building on the Borrower side. One could also question whether Bank staff were more
qualified and in a better position than Borrower staff to judge the priority and viability of the sub-
projects. It would have been more appropriate to have prepared a more detailed manual of
procedures and let the project unitlsteering committee select the sub-projects to be financed provided
that the sub-projects met the eligibility and evaluation criteria specified in the manual. The project
design could also have been improved by giving more autonomy to the project unit, i.e. locating it
outside Government. This was suggested by Bank staff during appraisal, but the Government at the
time did not agree. The key question on the part of Government was: "Why should we take a loan
and have somebody else decide how to use that loan?" Since IDA itself was asking to have the right
to approve each sub-project, it was not in a good position to insist that Government should not be
closely involved in the management of the operation. In the end, the Bank had to accept that the
project unit be located in the MP.
19.   A positive aspect of the Bank role in project supervision was the Bank decision in 1991 to
assign the task management for this project to its Resident Mission in Lome. Such delegation to the
field allowed the Bank to respond in a timely manner to the demands of the project, including the
prior approval of sub-projects. However, it also led to a much greater involvement of the Bank in
the management of the project than was originally envisaged. During the appraisal process, the
possibility of having the Bank Resident Representative in Lome serve cn the Steering Committee in
an ex-officio or in an "observer" capacity (as had been the case during the pilot program financed by
the SPPF) was considered but rejected, as the formal membership of the Bank in a national decision-
making body might lead to a conflict of interest. Consequently, the President's Report and the
Development Credit Agreement specified that the Steering Committee would consist of two
representatives of the Government designated by Ministerial Order and two representatives of the
NGO community designated by FONGTO. During project implementation, it seems that the
membership of the Steering Committee was changed to consist of two representatives of
Government, three representatives of NGOs, and representatives of the Bank resident mission in
Lome. In practice, the Resident Representative became a member of the Steering Committee and a
resident mission staff served on the technical committee, so that the resident mission participated
actively in the management and implementation of the Project. Apparently, this change was not the
object of a written agreement between Govemrnent and IDA. This arrangement enabled the Resident
Representative to provide close supervision of the Steering Committee proceedings and facilitated
the process of having IDA give its no objection to selected sub-projects.  This "innovative"
institutional arrangement also enabled the Resident Representative to be a mediator between the
Government and the NGO representatives on the Steering Committee, as their collaborative
relationship has developed. To some extent, the case can be made that the strong involvement of
Bank staff in implementation contributed to the success of the project.  Although rated as
satisfactory overall, the Bank performance in supervision was somewhat deficient in one aspect.
Since the project was not fully prepared at the time of appraisal, more could have been done during
projecit implementation to remedy that shortcoming by correcting and completing the project design,
using the implementation experience and the growing body of knowledge and experience with social
funds in the Bank.



-7-
Borrower Performance
20.   In the section on "Implementation Record", the discussion of the major factors that affected
the project covers some aspects of the Borrower performance. Overall, the Borrower performance
can be rated as satisfactory for preparation, implementation and covenant compliance, although
certain aspects were obviously deficient. As mentioned earlier, the preparation was not as thorough
and professional as it could have been, but in this area Government was most likely following the
Bank lead. Regarding implementation, the only project-specific condition of credit effectiveness was
that Government had concluded with FONGTO arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the carrying
out of the Project. Although there were apparently no issues related to this condition, the signing of
a protocol between Government and FONGTO was considerably delayed, and credit effectiveness
had to be postponed by about six months, to the end of December 1989. Otherwise, conditionalities
were limited. The start-up was a bit shaky; the Project Coordinator changed twice, and the situation
stabilized only after the appointment of the third one. Generally, project implementation was very
slow (hence, the need for a three-year postponement of the closing date). Reasons for the slow
project implementation include: (i) the infrequent meetings of the Steering Committee and the
resulting lack of decisions (e.g., appraisal and approval) on sub-projects submitted to the committee;
and (ii) the low ceiling of the IDA Special Account, which apparently limited the number of sub-
projects that could be undertaken concurrently. The appraisal and approval of sub-projects should
have been better distributed throughout the year. There were also delays in strengthening both the
Steering Committee and FONGTO's coordination and management capacity, and the strengthening
of the capability of local NGOs to prepare and execute sub-projects seems to have been given low
priority. Actually, funds earmarked for those activities were reallocated in 1995 to finance more
SSDP. Compliance with covenants of the Development -Credit Agreement (DCA) has been partial.
The membership of the Steering Committee (Section 3.03 of the DCA) was changed, the criteria for
the allocation of the grant financing to the SSDP (Section 3.04 of the DCA) were not always
respected (for example, the minimum contribution by NGOslbeneficiaries has varied between 10
percent and 20 percent, instead of being 30 percent as stated in Schedule 4 of the DCA), and it does
not seem that work programs (Section 3.05 of the DCA) have been submitted every year to IDA for
approval. It does not seem that IDA was interested in enforcing fully the covenants that were only
partially complied with, presumably because IDA agreed with the changes made and the way the
project was being implemented. However, the DCA was never amended.
Assessment of Outcome
21.    A detailed assessment of the impact of the project is in the Borrower Contribution to the
ICR (Appendix B). The main objective of this project was to improve the living standards and
working conditions of the poorest communities in Togo by providing grant financing for NGO-
sponsored community-based small scale development (SSD) sub-projects.  It also aimed at
enhancing the capacity of NGOs engaged in poverty alleviation to better meet high-priority basic
needs of communities and help them prepare and manage SSDs. The Bank involvement was
justified by (i) the high priority of poverty alleviation and the need to test sustainable mechanisms to
successfully channel resources to vulnerable segments of society; and (ii) the need to learn from and
complement NGO proximity to beneficiaries in order to improve the impact of future operations on
beneficiaries. The project had a slow start due to the political crisis and to the lack of experience of
project management and NGOs with the approach. However, with the assistance of the Bank
Resident Mission, Government and NGOs progressively strengthened the operation. The project's
objectives have been essentially met, and the outcome of the project is satisfactory overall.



-8 -
22.    From 1990 to 1997, 563 sub-projects (representing 11 percent of the requests received)
sponsored by 51 NGOs have been approved and implemented primarily in rural areas. However, 18
NGOs (or one-third of the total) account for 494 sub-projects, representing 88 percent of the total
number of sub-projects and 85 percent of the total financing made available. The sub-projects have
been relatively well distributed among the five regions of the country, bult not necessarily so within
each region. Of all the sub-projects, 38 percent were for livestock (mainly small livestock), 35
percent were for basic social infrastructure and equipment (such as wells and mills), 19 percent for
agricultural production, 5 percent for agro-industries, and 3 percent for forestry, handicraft and
micro-finance sub-projects. The total cost of those 563 sub-projects was about CFAF 1.8 billion, or
an average of about CFAF 3.2 million (the equivalent of less than US$6,000, at the post-devaluation
rate of exchange) per sub-project.
23.   A beneficiary assessment carried out in the second half of 1997 shows that: (i) the
beneficiaries were 368 associations (of at least 7 people) for the income-generating activities, and
195 village communities for the small basic social infrastructures and. equipment (wells, mills,
storage facilities, schools, small bridges, health posts, ..) ; (ii) about 5% of the sub-projects benefited
women exclusively, but most other sub-projects benefited in various degrees women as well as men;
(iii) the sub-projects generated employment for about 3,000 people in rural areas and improved the
living and working conditions of the 500,000 inhabitants (representing rnore than 10% of Togo's
population --of about 4 millions) of those 195 villages ; (iv) there was a substantial improvement in
the quality of life of the beneficiaries, including increases in income, better working conditions for
teachers and students, greater access of the population to health posts and pharmacies, increased
food security, reduction in crop losses and in the premature sales of crops, less water carrying
burden for women in rural areas, diversification of production and improvements in the marketing of
products ; (v) among the income-generating activities, the most successful sub-projects seem to have
been those for small livestock, storage facilities (provided they are complemented with adequate
working capital) and microfinance. However, monitoring and evaluation at the project level has not
been well developed and most of the beneficiaries do not keep accounts; the lack of data makes it
difficult to compute profit margins and financial rates of returns and to estimate other benefits for
the comrpleted sub-projects still in operation. Although limited in scope, the Project made a
contribution to the economic policy objectives of the country (such as the promotion of groups and
associatlions, and the development of small livestock) and redynamizecd rural areas by creating
economic opportunities in the use of local products.
24.    The direct beneficiaries of the institutional development component have been the
PDLP/NIGO Division and FONGTO. Since the implementation of this component has been limited,
its impact is also limited. FONGTO has established itself as a NGO professional association
working to strengthen its own institutional and management capacity, as well as that of its members.
It has gained a better knowledge of the concerns, needs and working methods of its partners, i.e. its
NGO membership and the Government. There is no question that the Project promoted the creation
and development of NGOs. FONGTO organized training sessions for individual NGOs, which
enabled them to better prepare financing requests and, therefore, facilitated the work of the project
implementation unit and Steering Committee. However, in view of the shortcomings identified in the
performance of NGOs, more could have been done to strengthen the capacity of NGOs, particularly
for the support that NGOs should provide to beneficiaries for the implementation of sub-projects. It
is worth noting that NGOs have been very successful in raising money for development, so that the
grant financing for sub-projects represented only a small fraction of the total amounts mobilized by
NGOs during the project implementation period. The sub-projects helped improve the capacity of
beneficizay groups/associations who learned by expenrence.



-9-
Future Operation
25.   IDA is considering a follow-up project that would consist of regional social fund agencies
operating outside of Government. This new project is highly desirable in order to continue and
further develop activities aimed at poverty reduction initiated under the GDIP.
26.    Of particular interest, of course, is the future operation of the 563 sub-projects that have
been financed and implemented. The beneficiary assessment carried out in the second half of 1997
indicates that about 60 percent of the income-generating activities are operating as planned, 30
percent have been restructured and 10 percent have been discontinued or abandoned. Regarding the
sub-projects for social infrastructure and equipment, about 70 percent are in operation and 30
percent are not. The reasons sub-projects are no longer operational include the inexperience of
beneficiaries, land tenure problems, disagreements between members of the groups, inadequate
return and the search for more profitable activities, lack of transparency in the management of funds,
insufficient working capital, inapproprial:e equipment or other technical problems.
27.   In view of the pilot nature of the GDIP and the shortcomings of its project design, a future
evaluation by OED is not likely to throw new light on the impact of the project or identify additional
lessons learned and is, therefore, a low priority.
Key Lessons Learned
28.    The following lessons, some of which could also apply to many other projects or have even
become standard requirements on more recent projects, can be learned from the implementation of
this Grassroots Development Initiatives P'roject (GDIP):
-  The building of a relationship between Government and NGOs is a time-consuming exercise,
particularly if they are not obviously willing to work together as partners from the beginning.
•  For a project consisting of a multitude of micro-projects scattered in rural areas and to be
implemented with the assistance of 'NGOs, a participatory approach involving all stakeholders
(beneficiaries and NGOs) in the design, management and execution of the project is essential.
Government's role is to provide policy guidance and to approve the rules of the game (manual of
procedures), but not to be involved in the day-to-day management of the project. Within that
framework, the operational autonomy ofthe responsible entity is extremely important.
*  The eligibility and appraisal criteria and the procedures to be followed for the review and
approval of sub-projects need to be spelled out in detail in a manual of procedures to provide a
more objective basis for the implementation by the responsible entity of micro-projects like those
financed under the GDIP. Once done, there would be no need for requiring the prior approval of
the Bank (nor of the Government, for that matter) for all sub-projects, as long as the criteria
listed in the manual are met.
*  When intermediaries are key actors in a project (like the sponsoring NGOs in this case), it is
important to have appropriate eligibility criteria and preselection process to ensure that those
intermediaries have the necessary qualifications and experience to do the work. The preselection
of NGOs must determine whether they have the technical competence and financial capacity to
meet their obligations for carrying out sub-projects.



-10-
*  Well-designed training programs for NGOs, as well as for associations or groups of
beneficiaries, should be an integral part of the operation and should be a priority. The existence
of a clear legal framework defining the responsibilities of NGOs and other stakeholders would
also help.
*  A contribution to the costs of sub-projects by beneficiaries is important as a test of ownership
and as a means to ensure that the sub-projects will be properly operated and maintained, but it
mnust not be set too high so as to disqualify the poorest beneficiaries. Contributions in cash
and/or in kind (such as local materials and labor) of about 10 to 15 percent for basic social
infrastructure and about 20 percent for income-generating activities would be appropriate
(instead of the 30 percent contribution required in this project).
*  The sustainiability of sub-projects, particularly those for infrastructure and equipment, cannot be
achieved unless there is some form of organization or mechanism (including the collection of
finds, as required) put in place for operation and maintenance after the end of construction. In
that context, basic social infrastructure sub-projects could be implemented by the project
implementation unit under delegated contract management without the participation of an NGO,
provided that the beneficiaries are organized to make their concerns known and to contribute to
the costs of the sub-projects, as well as to take care of their operation and maintenance.
*  In order to ensure that sponsoring NGOs provide the necessary support to beneficiaries for the
preparation, execution and operation of sub-projects, it is appropriate to compensate them for at
least part of the additional expenses that they incur for that purpose. A remuneration of about
10 to 15 percent of the costs of sub-projects would be adequate in most cases.
*  Irn addition to enthusiasm, dedication, money and contribution in kind, the successful
implementation of micro-projects also requires technical expertise. Arrangements must be made
to ensure that such expertise is available during project implementation, either as an integral part
of project design or during the course of supervision, including the carrying out of periodic
technical audits.
*  Income-generating activities, which usually benefit a small number of individuals and which
should definitely be financially viable, should be financed by loans, instead of grants, to
encourage financial discipline on the part of beneficiaries. Although the NGO or intermediary
could receive the money as a grant, it should, in turn, lend the money to beneficiaries. In this
way, it can establish a revolving fund that will allow it to meet the needs of more beneficiaries.
*  More often, sub-projects in execution lack revolving fund.
*  In order to ensure that the sub-projects have an impact on beneficiaries and on the development
of the area, emphasis should be put on mini-programs presented by NGOs.
*  Sub-projects that are scattered over the national territory have less impact on the disadvantaged
zones. Mini-programs should be developed in specific zones.
*  In addition to the sub-projects' economic and social aspects, emphasis should be put on the
organisational reinforcement of grassroots communities.



- I1 -
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1 Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of        Substantial    Partial     Negligible     Not
Objectives                                                       Applicable
Macro Policies                                                       X
Sector Policies                                                      X
Financial Objectives                                                 X
Institutional Development                  X
Physical Objectives                        X
Poverty Reduction                          X
Gender Issues                              X
Other Social Objectives                                              X
Environmental Objectives                                             X
Public Sector Management                                             X
Private Sector                             X
Development
Other (specify)                                                      X
B. Project Sustainability     Lilkely         Unlikely         Uncertain
XI



- 12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C.. Bank Performance       Highly    Satisfactory   Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                       X
Preparation Assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                        X
Supervision                          X
D. Borrower                 Highly    Satisfactory   Deficient
Performance               Satisfactory
Preparation                                 X
Implementation                              X
Covenant Compliance                         X
Operation (if applicable)    N/A.         N/A.          N/A.
E. Assessment        Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
of Outcome        Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or                 Purpose                    Year of      Status
Loan Title                                          Approval
Preceding Operations
CR. 1302    Development Rural                          1983     Closed 1991
CR. 1568    Education                                  1985     Closed 1992
CR. 1808    Agriculture                                1987     Closed 1994
CR. 1861    Transportation Rehabilitation              1988     Closed 1997
CR. 1929    Cotton Sector Develop ment                 1988     Closed 1997
CR. 2018    Pre-Investment Project                     1989       Ongoing
Following Operations
CR. 2211    Population /Health                         1991     Closed 1996
CR. 2620    Urban Development                          1994       Ongoing
CR. 2174    Vocational Education Training              1991       Ongoing
CR. 2752    Education rehabilitation                   1995       Ongoing
CR. 2849    ERAC (Economic Reform Adjustment           1996       Ongoing
______________   Credit)
CR. 2990    National Agriculture Services support      1998       Ongoing
CR. 2989    Road Transport Project                     1998       Ongoing
Pilot Social Fund                                      Under
Preparation



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned      Date actual / latest
estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation
Appraisal                                                      June/July 1988
Negotiations                                                 January 23 -27,1989
Board Presentation                          March 1989         March 21, 1989
Signing                                                         July 18, 1989
Effectiveness                              May/June 1989     December 28,1989
Midterm Review
Project Completion
Credit Closing                           December 31, 1994    December 31,1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year       1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997   1998
Appraisal Estimate  0.50  1.40  2.60  3.90  4.60  5.00  5.00  5.00   5.00   5.00
Actual              -   0.70  0.86  1.37  1.94  2.53  3.24  4.69   5.33   5.41
Actual as % of      -   55.0  33.1  35.1  42.2  50.6  64.8  93.8  106.6  108.2
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: February 26, 1998



- 15 -
Table 5 : Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report  Estimated   Actual
Note: There was no Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and neither the President's Report nor
the Credit Agreement contained any key indicators for project implementation. A
detailed description of the activities carried out under the project is included in the
Borrower's completion report (Appendix B), and summarized in Part I.
Table 6: Key inclicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators in SAR/Preiident's Re ort       Estimated   Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7: Sttudies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at       Status        Impact of Study
I |       appraisal
Note: there were no studies included in Project.



-16 -
Table 8A  Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Components                Appraisal    Actual/Latest
Estimate       Estimate
Grant Financing                                 4.20            4.70
Technical Support to Project Steering Committee  0.20           0.22
Strengthening PDLP Division                     0.80            1.30
NGO Capacity Building                            0.20           0.84
Refinancing SPPF                                0.50            0.50
Sub-total base costs                            6.00            7.56
Contingencies                                   0.70      _
Total Project Costs                             6.70            7.56
N.B.: US$ 1 = CFAF 305 in 1989
Table 8B  Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
Estimate       Estimate
Government                                      0.25           0.30
NGOs/Beneficiaries                               1.45           1.85
IDA                                             5.00            5.41
Total                                           6.70            7.56
Table 9 Economic Costs and Benefits
The President's Report did not include any economic analysis nor any estimates of
economic rates of return of the Small-Scale Development projects (SSDP) to be financed by
the Project. There are no data available to calculate a posteriori the economic rates of return
or the cost-effectiveness of the SSDP that were actually financed during the Project.



- 17-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement
Section  Covenant  Present  Fulfillment            Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type     Status      date
Open and maintain in CFA Francs one Special
2.02(b)      1        C     Continuous   Account in a commercial bank, on terms and
I___ I__                         conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Borrower's commitment to project objectives;
Bon ower to carry out project through its
3.ul      4, 5       C     Continuous   ministry of planning and Mining withl due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate administrative and financial practices,
and to provide, promptly as needed, funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for project.
Procurement of goods, works and consultants'
3.02       10        C     Continuous  services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit to be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement.
Borrower to establish and thereafter maintain the   Bank Resident Mission
3.03      5, 9       CP    Continuous   Project Steering Committee with membership, Representative participated
functions and responsibilities as set forth in  in Steering Committee.
Schedule 4 of the Credit Agreement.       I_I



18 -
Section  Covenant  Present  Fulfillment            Description of Covenant         1       Comments
I_ Type      Status     date
Borrower to make available the proceeds of the * The credit was extended
credit allocated to the Small-Scale Development twice  (1994  and  May
Projects (SSDP) to eligible NGOs in accordance  1996).
3.04     5, 10      CP    Continuous  with the criteria set forth in Schedule 4 to the It finally closed on  Dec.
Credit  agreement  and   under  Financing  31, 1997.
Agreements satisfactory to IDA, to exercise its *  Criteria  not  always
rights under said Financing Agreements to  respected.
accomplish the purposes of the credit and, except * A funds reallocation has
as IDA shall otherwise agree, not to change, been operated in 1995 to
assign,  amend  or  waive  such  financing  finance more SSDP.
agreements.
Borrower (i) to prepare and submit to IDA for its
approval a work program to be executed during
3.05      5,9       CP    By October  the following calendar year by the PLDP/NGO
31 of each    Division, and (ii) to cause FONGTO to prepare
year, for the  and submit to IDA through the Borrower the  Work programs were not
following    work program  to be executed during the        always submitted.
year        following  calendar year by  FONGTO  in
furtherance of Part B3 of the Project (i.e. to
strengthen coordination of NGO activities
through FONGTO and reinforce the capability of
local NGOs to efficiently prepare and execute
their development operations).



-19-
Section  Covenant Present  Fulfillment            Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type    Status      date
Audit reports have been
By June 30   Borrower to maintain adequate project records submitted as follows:
and
4.01       1         C     of each year, accounts, to have the accounts audited by  DateSubm issurn  Year
forthe      independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and to  07/08/1991  12/31/1990
preceding    furnish to IDA, not later than six months after  06/10/1992   12/31/1991
year.       the end of each fiscal year, the report of such  12/23/1993   12/31/1992
audit by said auditors.                    06/30/1994   12/31/1993
06/30/1996   12/31/1995
05/20/1997   12/31/1996
04/30/1998   12/31/1998
5.01       5         C     Condition of Borrower to conclude with FONGTO
effectiveness arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the carrying
out of the Project.
Covenant types:
I = Accounts/audits.                 8 = Indigenous people.               Present status:
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
generation from beneficiaries.  10 = Project implementation not covered   C  = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.  by categories 1-9.            CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.             11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary   CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or  or other resource allocation..  NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.              12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Environmental covenants.         policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.        13 = Other.



-20 -
Table 11 : Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title              Describe and comment on lack of
compliance
1. OD 10.60
Accounting, financial Reporting and       Not applicable for this project
Auditing.
2. OD 12.20
Special Accounts.
3. OP 12.30
Statement of Expenditure.
Any other statements?
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project        Planned               Revised               Actual
Cycle
Weeks       US$      Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to     Not Available  Not Available  Not Available  Not Available
Appraisal                                                        10.7       22.1
Appraisal          Not Available  Not Available  Not Available  Not Available    14.9  33.6
Negotiations        Not Available  Not Available  Not Available  Not Available
through ]Board                                                    6.0       14.9
Approval
Supervisiion       Not Available  Not Available  Not Available  Not Available    45.1  102.6
Completion            11.5                  13.0                  9.4       14.8
TOTAL                 53.5                 38.5                  86.1       188.0
Source: FACT



-21 -
Table 13 Bank Resources: Missions.
Stage of     Month/    Number    Days in    Specialized staff          Performance Rating          Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year    of Persons    Field    skills represented
Implementa-     Develop-
tion Status      ment
_______________                     Objectives
Through
appraisal                                         _
Appraisal
through Board
Approval                                          ___
Supervision 1     08/89         2          9      CO, TA                    I              I
Supervision 2     11/89         2          12     CO, TA                    1              1
Supervision 3     07/90         2          10     CO, TA                    3              1         PMP
Supervision 4     03/91         2          10     CO, TA                    3              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 5     08/91         2          12     CO, TA                    3              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 6     02/92         3          20     RR,TA, EC                 3              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 7     07/92         3          20     RR, TA, EC                3              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 8     09/93         3          20     ERJ, TA, EC               3              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 9     09/94         3          25     RR, T.A, EC               2              1         PMP
Supervision 10    06195         3          20     PR, EC, EC                1              1         PMP
Supervision 11    05196         3          20     PR, EC, EC                I              1         PMP, 0
Supervision 12    04/97         2          20     RR, EC.                   1              1         PMP, 0
Supervision 13    06/97         2          15     RR, EC                    i              1         PMP, O
Supervision 14    01/98         2          20     RR, EC                    I              I         PMP, 0
Completion        03/98         3          25     RR, EC                    1              1         PMP, 0
Key to specialized staff skills
CO = Country Officer                                          EC = Economist
TA = Technical Assistance Specialist                          RR = Resident Representative
Ke terformance rating
I = Problem Free           2 = Moderate Problems    3 = Major Problems     4 = Major Problems - Corrective action to be taken.
Key to problems
Key to yroblems
AF = Availability of funds                      FP  = Financial performance                  PP = Procurement progress
CLC  Compliance with legal covenants            PDO = Project Development Objectives         SP = Studies progress
PMP = Project management performance         0 = Other (*)
(*) Lack of capacity of some sponsoring NGOs.



APPENDICES



APPENDIX A
REPUBLIOUE TOGOLAISE
MISSION SUR LA PREPARATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
D'APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE DEVELOPPEMENT A LA BASE
(C-R 1993-TO)
AJIDE-MEMOIRE
1.     Une mission de la Banque Moncliale, comprenant Mme Monique Garrity, Representant
Resident et Monsieur Kossi Eguida, Charg'- de Liaison avec les ONGs a eu des seances de travail du
25 Mars au 02 Avril 1998 avec les Autorites togolaises au sujet de la preparation du rapport
d'Achevement du Projet d'Appui aux Initiatives de Developpement l la Base (PAIDB). Les objectifs
de la mission --qui fait suite au seminaire residentiel d 'evaluation du projet de Deembre 1997 et
auquel avait particip6 une cinquantaine te personnes repr6sentant le Gouvernement, les ONGs,
les bMnUficiaires, la Banque Mondiale, ainsi que des repr6sentants d 'autres bailleurs de fonds qui
financent des micro-projets-- etaient de finaliser avec 1'emprunteur le Rapport d'Achevement (RA)
du PAIDB et tirer les lecons de ce projet qui a e  cl6ture le 31 Decembre 1997. II faut rappeler que
cette mission fait suite a une serie de seances de travail techniques qui avaient eu lieu en decembre
1997 et en Janvier 1998 pour expliquer a l'emprunteur les objectifs et le contenu du Rapport
d'Ach&vement.
2.     Le 02 Avril 1998, la mission a tenu une reunion avec des representants du Ministre de la
Planification et du Developpement Economnique (MPDE) et des representants de la FONGTO. Au
cours de cette reunion, 1'ensemble du prcjet du "Rapport d'Achevement" a e  discute dans les
details. La reunion a e presidee par le Directeur de la Planification Regionale du MPDE.
3.     La mission tient a remercier tous ceux qu'elle a rencontres dans le cadre de ses travaux, en
l'occurrence les repr6sentants de la division PDLP/ONG, coordination du PAIDB, pour
l'organisation du seminaire d'evaluation de Decembre 1997 et pour la bonne qualite du "Rapport
d'Achevement" de l'Emprunteur. Elle tient a remercier egalement les representants de la FONGTO,
du PNUD, de l'Union Europeenne avec qui., elle a eu des echanges de vue tres fructueux.
4.    Situation Financiere du Credit -    Le cr6dit 1993-TO a e  entierement debourse. Au
31 Decembre 1997, 5,4 millions de dollars ont ete decaisses, compare a 5,00 millions de dollars
estime dans le "Rapport du President", soit une augmentation de 8%. La demiere estimation du couit
du projet s'elevait a 7.56 millions de dollars US, ce qui represente une augmentation de 13% par
rapport au montant figurant dans le Rapport du President (6,70 millions de dollars US). Les
deboursements en dollars effectues par l'IDA ont ete superieurs aux previsions, mais le
Gouvernement et les beneficiaires /ONGs ont aussi contribue plus que prevu. L'execution du projet
a pris trois ans de plus que ce qui avait e prevu lors de son evaluation.
5.    Prdparation et Evaluation du Projet-  La performance de la Banque pendant la
preparation n'a pas ete entierement satisfaisante. En effet, les procedures pour l'evaluation des
micro-projets, y compris les criteres d.'e6igibilite et d'evaluation, ainsi que les modalites
operationnelles pour la selection et l'execution n'etaient pas suffisamment detaillees lors de la
preparation ou etaient inappropriees.



- ii -
6.     La mission a eu aussi eu un entretien avec I'auditeur des comptes du projet pour (i) discuter
des principales conclusions de sa mission d'audit des comptes de 1'exercice 1997 (en cours de
finalisation) et (ii) exprimer les attentes de la Banque dans le cadre d'un audit final de cloture. Dans
ce sens, la mission a eu a donner certaines orientations a I'auditeur.
7.     Orientations de la mission de lauditeur - Le rapport d'audit est l'expression de l'opinion
d'un auditeur inddpendant sur les comptes annuels du projet. Toutefois, dans le cadre d'un audit de
cl8ture du projet, on attend de I'auditeur qu'il aille au-dela de I'audit classique annuel des comptes
mais surtout de faire le point sur l'ensemble de la situation du projet depuis sa mise en vigueur.
Certes, ses informations sont disponibles dans le rapport d'achevement, il s'agira de les verifier. Les
principaux points souleves sont relatifs a:
(i) L'inventaire exhaustif des biens du projet : il n'est pas rare de constater qu'a l'approche de la
fin d'un projet, les principales immobilisations acquises sont dispersees ou parfois d6tournees. II
s'agit en realite de faire cette fois-ci l'inventaire exhaustif des biens du projet (identification de
1'emplacement, etat du bien) pour son transfert eventuel a une autre structure ou pour sa prise en
compte dans le cadre de la preparation d'un nouveau projet dans le secteur.
(ii) Point sur les depenses eventuellement en cours: les engagements pris avant la date de cl8ture
doivent 8tre honores et les paiements effectues au plus tard quatre mois apres la date de cloture.
L'auditeur doit s'assurer de la realite des depenses eventuellement en cours.
(iii) Point sur les depenses engagees sur le projet: Plusieurs partenaires interviennent dans le
financement du PAIDB (IDA, les beneficiaires et l'Etat). Le rapport de l'auditeur devra valider le
point sur la contribution globale et par annee, par composantes et categories de chaque partenaire
depuis la mise en vigueur du projet.
8      Exicution du projet -- Les deux parties ont reconnu que bien que la preparation du projet
n'avait pas ete entierement satisfaisante, elles ont pu reajuster certaines dispositions de l'Accord de
Credit des que necessaire : le representant resident est devenu membre du comite directeur et un
Cadre de la mission residente a travaille dans le comite technique.
- La Banque a reconnu qu'elle aurait pu pendant l'execution completer la conception du PAIDB en
corrigeant et en completant davantage les faiblesses a partir des experiences d'execution du PAIDB
et d'autres projets similaires finances par la Banque dans d'autres pays.
- Du cote de l'emprunteur, les discussions ont porte sur le fait que les r6unions du comite directeur
n'ont pas e assez frequents (seulement deux fois par an) ; ceci avait pour corollaire, 1'exa.men et
l'adoption au cours d'une seance d'un trop grand nombre de dossiers (200 a 300 dossiers soumis).
9.    Le!ons tirees du projet -- Les lecons tirees de 1'execution du PAIDB partagees par la
mission et 1'emprunteur ont ete rappelees. Ces lecons ont d'ores et deja e :mises en pratique par les
deux parties lors de la preparation du projet de fonds social decentralise. Certaines de ces lecons sont
les suivantes
*  Inportance de l'autonomie operationnelle;
*  le role du Gouvernement: foumir les grandes lignes de sa politique generale et ratifier les regles
de jeu (manuel de procedures);
* Presdlection des ONGs: s'assurer qu'elles ont la competence et l'experience necessaire pour
faire le travail;
* programmne de formation pour les ONGs aussi bien que pour les associations ou groupes
beneficiaires;



- iii -
*  Existence d'un cadre juridique transparent definissant les responsabilit6s des ONGs et d'autres
interesses est necessaire;
*  Contribution aux couits des micro-prMjets ainsi qu'a leur fonctionnement et entretien.
*  Des projets peuvent etre executes par la coordination du projet dans le cadre d'une gestion
deleguee des contrats;
*  Organisation d'audits techniques reguliers;
*  Des competences techniques doivent etre disponibles au cours de l'execution du projet;
*  Les activites generatrices de revenus doivent etre financ6es par des prets ou faire les dons aux
ONGs qui peuvent a leur tout faire cles prets aux ben6ficiaires, ce qui permettrait de constituer
un fonds de roulement.
10.    Evaluation des ,isultats:
Le Gouvernement a eu a indiquer qu'en depit de certaines lacunes relevees dans la phase de
preparation, les objectifs du PAIDB ont ete largement atteints grace A la participation de tous les
partenaires du projet et a remercie la Banque Mondiale et les autres bailleurs de fonds pour leur
disponibilite a aider le Gouvernement togolais dans le financement et la mise en oeuvre des projets
devant contribuer a l'allegement de la pauvrete.
- Pour sa part, la mission s'est rejoui de la bonne collaboration qui a prevalu entre le
Gouvemement-les ONGs-et la Banque au cours de l'execution du projet. La mission a enfin 6mis le
voeu que les riches enseignements issus du PAIDB servent au projet relais de Fonds Social du Social
actuellement en cours de preparation.
Fait A Lome, le 04 Avril 1998



- lv -
APPENDIX B
CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR AU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU CREDIT 1993-TO
...............
Introduction
La crise economique des annees 80 a amene le Togo a adopter une politique rigoureuse de
stabilisation financiere et d'ajustement structurel en vue de corriger les desequilibres macro-
6conomiques essentiels et de creer des conditions favorables au retour a la croissance economique.
Ainsi, les Programmes d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS) qui ont fait place a partir de 1983 aux plans
quinquennaux, ont entrainm une reduction drastique des depenses publiques agissant negativement
sur les populations les plus demunies dans le domaine de l'emploi, des revenus, de la nutrition, de la
sante et de l'education.
En vue d'attenuer les effets pervers des PAS sur l'environnement socio-dconomique des populations,
le gouvernement s'est engagd i la 1lr` conference des bailleurs de fonds tenue en juin 1985 a Lome
de realiser un programme de developpement economique et social base sur la participation de la
population et denomme <Programme de Developpement Local et Participatif (PDLP))). Pour
l'execution de ce programme, le gouvemement a cree au sein du Ministere du Plan, la Division
PDLP/C)NG charg&e de sa coordination et de servir de liaison avec la communaute des ONG.
Pour conforter cette nouvelle approche de d6veloppement, des bailleurs de fonds comme le PNUD,
l'Union Europeenne et la Banque Mondiale apportent depuis 1985 leur appui financier pour
l'execution des programmes de micro-realisations. C'est dans ce cadre que le Projet d'Appui aux
Initiatives de Developpement a la Base (PAIDB) a ete finance par la Banque Mondiale et mis en
vigueur le 28 decembre 1989. Il est le second projet de cooperation, entre le Gouvemement, les
ONG et la Banque Mondiale apres le projet pilote G006. II est destine a promouvoir les groupements
et petits producteurs en vue de leur integration au processus et aux mecanismes de la relance de
l'economie National.
Les Objectifs du Projet
Le PAIDB s'est assigne trois principaux objectifs:
* 1'amelioration des conditions de vie des couches les plus pauvres de la population du Togo par le
financement sous forme de subvention de micro-projets dans les domaines de l'agro-pastoral et
des equipements socio-collectifs de bases;
* 1'encouragement de la cooperation entre l'Etat togolais et les ONG operant sur le territoire
national;
* le renforcement de l'aptitude des ONG locales a preparer, executer et gerer, en collaboration avec
les beneficiaires, les PDPE.
Les Composantes du PAIDB
Le PAIDB comprend deux parties essentielles:



- v -
* Le Financement des Projets de Developpement a Petite Echelle (PDPE): Les principaux
crit&res d'e1igibilite au Fonds PAIDB sont les suivants:
* S'agissant de l'initiative, elle doit etre une emanation reelle d'une communaute de base en
collaboration avec une ONG, etre techniquement maitrisable et comporter une
participation locale de 30% de son cout total.
* Pour l'ONG co-initiatrice, elle doit avoir une personnalite juridique, des competences
demontrees dans son domaine d'intervention et disposer de capacite satisfaisante en
matiere de gestion financiere.
* Le Developpement Institutionnel: Cette composante vise:
* le renforcement de l'aptitude du Comite Directeur a evaluer les propositions des PDPE, a
evaluer leur impact et a suivre leur execution;
* le renforcement des comp6tences de la Division PDLP/ONG, chargee de la gestion du
programme de developpement lecal et participatif;
* le renforcement de l'aptitude dcs ONG locales a preparer et executer des operations de
d6veloppement dans de bonnes conditions d'efficacite.
Le Cadre Institutionnel
Trois institutions ont participe a l'execution du PAIDB. II s'agit du MPAT (Ministere du Plan et de
l'Amenagement du territoire), de la FONGTO (Federation des ONG du Togo) et de la Mission
Residente de la Banque Mondiale au Togo.
* Le Ministere de Tutelle- L'organismrre d'execution du PAIDB pour le gouvernement togolais
est le Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire, au sein duquel il a e  cree en 1985 la
Division PDLP/ONG, chargee de coordonner le Programme de D6veloppement Local et
Participatif et de servir de liaison avec la communaute des ONG. Cette division abrite la cellule
d'execution du PAIDB, chargee:
* de la centralisation et de l'in.struction des requetes de financement provenant des
populations a la base;
* de la preparation des reunions du Comite Directeur (CD) charge de la definition des
grandes orientations du PAIDB et de la selection des micro-projets conformement aux
criteres d'eligibilite ;
* du suivi physique et financier des micro-projets;
* de la gestion du compte special et d'une documentation relative au developpement a la
base.
* La Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale au Togo-  Le Representant Resident de la
Banque Mondiale au Togo est le <<Task Manager)> du PAIDB. A ce titre, la Mission R6sidente
s'est essentiellement occup6e de son suivi financier (autorisation de depenses, participation aux
reunions de selection du CD, examen des audits operationnels et financiers, approbation des
programmes d'activite de la Direction du PAIDB ) et de son suivi physique (deux missions de
supervisions par an, des micro-projets sur le terrain).



- VI -
* La FONGTO- La mnaitrise d'ouvrage des micro-projets PAIDB a e confide aux ONG
membres de la FONGTO. A cet titre, ces ONG ont e chargees:
* de l'identification et de la formulation des requ&es de financement en collaboration avec
les beneficiaires;
* du suivi et du contr6le de l'implantation des micro-projets;
* de la supervision de la gestion des fonds alloues aux beneficiaires;
* de l'encadrement et de la formation des beneficiaires.
Realisation des Objectifs
* LesPDPE - De 1990 a 1997, 563 micro-projets representant 11% des besoins exprimes ont e
approuves et implantes dans les cinq regions du pays pour un couit global d'environ 1,8 milliard
de francs CFA. Les beneficiaires de ces micro-projets sont 368 groupements d'au moins 7
personnes, pour les micro-projets g6nerateurs de revenu, et 195 comrnunautes villageoises pour
les petites infrastructures socio-collectives de base. Le PAIDB a ainsi permis la creation
d'environ 3.000 emplois agricoles pour des paysans, des jeunes dipl6mes et des descolarises sans
travail et l'amelioration des conditions de vie et de travail d'environ 500.000 habitants des 195
villages.
* Le Developpement Institutionnel- Les beneficiaires directs du developpement institutionnel du
PAIDB ont ete la Division PDLP/ONG et la federation des ONG au Togo (FONGTO).
* Aopui a la Division PDLP/ONG: Cet appui a fait l'objet des depenses relatives aux
cztegories N° 2, 3, 4 et 5 de l'Accord de credit:
88% du montant alloue a la categorie N° 2 ont servi a payer les honoraires du personnel
contractuel et les bureaux des consultants pour les travaux d'audits operationnels et
financiers;
=> 84,7% du montant de la categorie N° 3 ont servi A equiper la division en materiel roulant
et informatique;
= la categorie N° 4 A permis a la Division PDLP/ONG de faire face aux depenses relatives
au fonctionnement;
n 4% du montant de la categorie N° 5 ont servi a former le personnel de la cellule sur
l'outil informatique.
* Appui ai la FONGTO: Cet appui A permis A la FONGTO d'acquerir un vehicule tout
terrain, du materiel de bureau (photocopieuse et machine A 6crire) et d'organiser 5 (cinq)
sessions de formation au profit des cadres et dirigeants de ses ONC3 membres. L'ensemble
de cet appui s'est eleve A 52.633,45DTS.
Problemes Ayant Entrave la Bonne Execution du PAIDB
Lors de son execution, le PAIDB a ete confront6 a deux types de problemes: les problemes
conjoncturels et les problemes lids a certaines dispositions de l'Accord de credit.
* S'agissant des problemes conjoncturels, il y a lieu de noter:



- vii -
* les problemes lids a la crise socio-politique que le pays a connue dans les annees 1992 a
1993. Cette crise a engendre des troubles entra^mant d'une part le ralentissement des
activites de la Cellule d'Execution et d'autre part, le periclite les activites des
groupements productifs par l'absence de marche d'approvisionnement et d'ecoulement
des produits;
* les problemes lids au changement de la parite du Francs CFA par rapport au Francs
Fran,ais intervenu en janvier 1994. Ce changement a entraine une flambee des prix
influencant n6gativement l'implantation des PDPE.
* S'agissant des dispositions lies A I'Accord de credit, il y a lieu de relever les problemes relatifs
aux ONG a qui I'Accord de cr6dit a confie la maitrise d'ouvrage des micro-projets. Leur
mauvaise repartition sur le territoire national et la faiblesse de la capacite financiere et technique
de certaines d'entre elles ont n6gativemrent influence 1'execution du PAIDB.
* les problemes relatifs aux beneficiaires qui ont e  confrontes A quatre types de difficultes. Ces
difficultes ont trait:
- a la participation locale requise de 30% du cout des micro-projets credit qui reste
difficilement realisable;
- aux actes de proprikt* de terrains octroyes aux groupements qui sont souvent remis en
cause lors de l'execution des micro-projets;
-  A la dimension culturelle qui se traduit parfois par des pratiques occultes tendant a
nuire les beneficiaires;
* a I'analphabetisme qui obligc: certains b6neficiaires A se faire representer aupres des
institutions bancaires par des tierces personnes, pour la gestion de fonds alloues.
* enfin, la faiblesse du montant du compte sp6cial qui est de 87.157.500 Francs CFA ne permettait
pas de faire ddmarrer simultanement tcus les micro-projets approuves par une meme reunion du
Comite Directeur.
Impact du PAIDB
* Impact sur les Bdn4flciaires- Les evaluations ont montre que le PAIDB a eu des effets positifs
certains sur l'environnement socio-Lconomique des populations a la base. Il a permis d'ameliorer
de fa,on assez  significative, les conditions de travail et de vie  de ces populations
majoritairement rurales.
* S'agissant des ameliorations dues i l'execution des micro-projets d'infrastructures socio-
collectives de base qui representenl: 35% des PDPE finances par le PAIDB (les batiments
scolaires, infrastructures sanitaires, les magasins de stockage, les hangars de marche, les puits
et retenues d'eau, les moulins A c6reales), nous citerons entre autre:
r I'amdlioration des conditions de travail des eleves et enseignants surtout en periode
d'intemperies,
= le rapprochement des centres de sante et des pharmacies des populations,
=l Ia diminution des pertes et de la vente precoce des recoltes,
l Ia multiplication des marches primaires pour l'ecoulement des productions,



- viii -
= la suppression des corvees d'eau et de mouture manuelle de cereales pour les femmes
rurales.
S'agissant des micro-projets generateurs de revenu qui ont constitue 1'essentiel des micro-
projets PAIDB (65% des PDPE), ils ont entrainm une augmentation gen6rale des revenus des
beneficiaires se traduisant par des signes ext6rieurs de richesse pouvant se mesurer par:
=> I'amelioration de I'alirnentation, de l'habitat et des moyens de production,
= la diversification des activites de production,
= la prise en charge des frais de sante des familles et de scolarite des enfants...
* Autres impacts- L'execution du PAIDB a eu aussi d'autres impacts sociaux qui sont:
* la maitrise des techniques de production agro-pastorale,
* le changement de mentalite dans le sens de I'appropriation des micro-projets et le
developpement de 1'esprit cooperatif,
* I'integration de la femme au processus de developpement,
* la maitrise des circuits commerciaux et bancaires,
* la formation sur le tas et l'alphabetisation fonctionnelle,
* le renforcement des capacites endogenes de developpement et d'auto-dependance des
populations rurales.
* Impact de l'Appui Institutionnel- Comme souligne plus haut, la Division PDLP/ONG et la
FONGTO ont ete les principaux beneficiaires de cet appui.
l Ie PAIDB a permis le renforcement de la collaboration entre le gouvemement et la
famille des ONG;
l Ie PAIDB a favorise la professionnalisation des ONG, le renforcement de leur capacite
d'intervention, leur meilleure repartition sur le territoire national et leur credibilite aupres
des populations a la base.
* Maintien des Acquis du PAIDB- L'approche participative adoptee par le PAIDB et l'utilisation
de la technologie appropriee lors de l'execution des micro-projets militent en faveur de leur
appropriation par les ben6ficiaires. La capacite de gestion des micro-projets acquis par les
groupements et l'existence des marches d'ecoulement des productions sont un gage de la
perennite des activites. Pour les projets a caractere social tels que les ecoles, les dispensaires,
I'Etalt assure les charges du personnel et les collectivites locales, 1'entretien courant.
* Engagement du gouvernement- La volonte du gouvemement de mettre en place une politique
de developpement local et participatif s'est traduite par:
la creation au sein du Ministere du Plan, de la Division PDLP/ONG chargee de la
coordination d'un tel programme et de liaison avec les ONG;
la prise en charge des frais recurrents en ce qui concerne le personnel des ecoles et
dispensaires;
I'adoption du decret 92-130 PMRT le 27 Mai 1992 en vue de faciliter les activites des
ONG sur le territoire;



- ix -
* Ia creation des comites locaux et regionaux de planification en vue d'une prise reelle des
preoccupations des populations;
* Ia poursuite de la recherche de financement des programmes de micro-realisation.
Recommandations
Les impacts positifs du PAIDB et principalement les impacts sociaux militent en faveur de la
poursuite des interventions de ce type cornme un moyen de lutte contre la pauvrete. Les points
faibles constates mettent en evidence la necessite de faire les recommandations suivantes en vue de
I'amelioration de 1'execution des futurs programmes:
* La participation locale requise- Compte tenu de la faiblesse du pouvoir d'achat des
populations cibles, la participation locale requise doit etre revue A la baisse et modulee selon les
secteurs d'intervention: un taux de 20%4o pour les projets generateurs de revenu et de 15% pour
les projets sociaux seront plus realistes.
* Leparrainage des initiatives- Une distinction totale doit tre faite entre les projets a caractere
socio-collectif, realisables et fonctionnels en quelque mois, ne necessitant qu'un encadrement
leger et ponctuel et les projets generateurs de revenus, fonctionnels et autonomes au mieux apres
deux ans et necessitant imperativement tn encadrement pendant plusieurs annees. Pour les projets
a caractere social dont la mise en ceuvi-e fait plus appel a la technique qu'a 1'encadrement des
beneficiaires, le parrainage d'une ONG n'est pas obligatoire. La Cellule d'Execution pourra
proceder A un appel d'offre des tAcherons de la place pour leur execution. Les ONG s'occuperont
en priorite des b6neficiaires des micro-projets generateurs de revenus.
* Les PDPE- L'ensemble des micro-projets du PAIDB sont des micro-projets isol6s repondant a
des besoins ponctuels des beneficiaires. En vue d'accroi^tre l'impact des programmes de micro-
realisations, ceux-ci pourraient s'interesser, en plus des projets isoles, A des projets integres dont
l'execution permettrait la resolution de plusieurs problemes de developpement dans des zones de
pauvrete A identifier sur le territoire national.
* Les ONG-
* Necessite de proceder a une prequal[ification des ONG suivant leur competence technique et
leur capacite financiere pour la mise en oeuvre des programmes.
* Necessite d'elaborer un cadre jurindique precis definissant les responsabilites techniques,
legales et penales applicables aux ONG et autres intervenants dans 1'execution des
programmes de micro-realisations;
* Compte tenu du fait que les micro-realisations initi6es par les beneficiaires viennent souvent
en appendice des programmes d'activites des ONG, il est indispensable de prendre en compte
dans les couits des micro-projets, les frais de suivi et d'encadrement des ONG et autres
partenaires impliques dans leur realisation (ces frais representeraient 10 a 15% des couits des
projets suivant leur complexite et leur eloignement des centres d'approvisionnement);
* Les ben4ficiaires- La population cible du PAIDB etait organisee en groupements d'au moins 7
personnes et en Communautes Villageoises represent&es par des Comites Villageois de
Developpement (CVD). Des programmes similaires pourraient egalement s'interesser a de petits
producteurs isoles, des groupements de moins de 7 personnes et des groupements organises sur
une base familiale pour eviter des problemes fonciers et des problemes de personnes qui
conduisent generalement a la dislocation des groupements et A la cessation des activites.
* Nature des interventions- Le mode d'intervention du PAIDB, comme celui des autres
programmes de micro-realisations executes anterieurement, consistait a subventionner les



- x -
populations cibles. Cette facon d'intervenir merite d'etre soutenue pour le moment, a cause de la
faiblesse du pouvoir d'achat des populations a la base, rendues aujourd'hui, plus vulnerables par
les effets conjugues de la crise socio-politique et de la devaluation du Franc CFA. Cependant, les
quelques micro-projets de credit finances a la fin du PAIDB A travers les ONG, ont suscite des
dynamiques economiques appreciables aupres des beneficiaires qui ont pu entreprendre de petites
activites commerciales jusque la non eligibles aux fonds du Projet.
Pour cela, parallelement aux subventions, indispensables pour continuer a appuyer la relance de
la production a la base, les futurs programmes de micro-realisations pourraient comprendre un
petit volet de credit a gerer par des ONG competentes en la matiere pour des producteurs isoles,
solvablies et des groupements ayant des problemes de fonds de roulement.
Montant du compte special- Le compte special du PAIDB plafonne a QUATRE VINGT SEPT
MILLIONS CENT CINQUANTE SEPT MILLE CINQ CENT (87.157.500) de FRANCS CFA ne
permettait pas de faire face, a temps, aux engagements financiers pour ce qui conceme les PDPE
apres les reunions de selection du Comite Directeur. Plusieurs demandes de refinancements etaient
necessaires pour permettre le demarrage de tous les micro-projets d'une meme reunion du Comite.
Un montant d'au moins DEUX CENT CINQUANTE MILLIONS (250.000.000) de FRANCS CFA
serait souhaitable.



xi
APPENDIX C
SEMINAIRE-EVALUATION DU PAIDB
~~~-.-............... ..
RAPPORT GENERAL
Introduction
L'an mil neuf cent quatre vingt dix sept et les 04 et 05 decembre, s'est tenu a l'H8tel du 30 Aofit de
Kpalime, le Seminaire-Evaluation du Prrojet d'Appui aux Initiatives de Developpement it la Base
(PAIDB). L'organisation de ce seminaire lpour utne evaluation du PAIDB par ses principaux acteurs
(beneficiaires, ONG, Gouvernement et Bailleur de Fonds) s'inscrit dans le cadre du rapport final
dudit projet qui arrive a expiration le 31 decembre 1997.
Ce senminaire-evaluation, initie par la Mission R6sidente de la Banque Mondiale du Togo et la
Direction du PAIDB est une premiere dans la gestion des programmes de micro-projets au benefice
des populations a la base. Il a pour objectiHs de:
* mesurer le chemin parcouru depuis la mise en vigueur du PAIDB en 1989;
* proposer des solutions aux principaux problemes ayant entrave la bonne execution du PAIDB en
vue de l'amelioration de la gestion des programmes similaires futurs;
* tirer les enseignements des experiences de collaboration vecues dans le cadre de la realisation du
PAIDB;
* et enfin tirer meilleur parti des experiences des interventions precedentes de la Banque Mondiale
au Togo et des programmes de micro-realisations des autres Bailleurs de Fonds, afin de pouvoir
mieux adapter le nouveau projet de Fonds Social aux realites culturelles economiques, politiques
et sociales de notre pays dans le cadre de la politique de developpement local et participatif que
mene le Gouvemement.
Organisation et Deroulement des Travaux du Seminaire-Evaluation
Le seminaire-evaluation a ete organise par le Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire
(MPAT) en collaboration avec la Mission ]Residente de la Banque Mondiale au Togo. Il a reuni une
soixantaine de participants composes:
* des cadres du Ministere du Plan et de I'Am6nagement du Territoire;
* des representants de groupements beneficiaires et des organisations paysannes;
* des representants des Organisations Non Gouvemementales (ONG);
*  du personnel de la Cellule d'Execution du Projet
* des representants de la Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale au Togo et ceux d'autres
bailleurs de fonds tels que le PNUD et l'Union Europeenne
Les travaux du seminaire-evaluation se sont deroules en seance pleniere et en ateliers pendant deux
(2) jours, conformnement au programme prilvu a cet effet. A l'issue des debats riches et fructueux
engages autour des themes developpes, les participants ont formule des  conclusions et
recommandations.



xii
REsultats des Travaux du Seminaire-Evaluation
* ProbMlmes d'ordre institutionnel:
* proliferation des ONG et des associations d'encadrement des populations a la base;
* difficultes d'identifier certaines ONG des organisations paysannes;
* absence d'un cadre juridique specifique aux ONG.
Solutions proposees:
* definition par le Gouvemement en concertation avec les ONG d'un cadre juridique
approprie pour les ONG;
* definition d'un cadre de cooperation entre le Gouvernement et les ONG.
# Problmes d'ordre technique Iies aux ONG et aux ben6ficiaires:
* amateurisme de certaines ONG et des groupements de circonstance;
* faiblesse de la capacite technique et contributive des ONG et des groupements
b'neficiaires;
* mauvaise connaissance du milieu;
* insuffisance de l'encadrement des populations dans l'execution et la gestion de leurs
activites;
* faiblesse de l'impact de certains micro-projets sur les beneficiaires;
difficulte d'appropriation des micro-projets par les beneficiaires;
* faible capacite de negociation et de commercialisation des organisations paysannes.
Solutions proposes:
* renforcer les capacites techniques des ONG nationales par des ateliers de formations
en vue de leur specialisation;
* associer davantage les beneficiaires A l'identification, la formulation, 1'execution et le
suivi-evaluation de leurs micro-projets de developpement en vue de leurs
appropriation et de l'accroissement de leur impact;
* necessite pour les ONG de proc6der a une etude approfondie du milieu avant toute
intervention.
* Problemes d'ordre financier:
o faiblesse de la capacite financiere de certaines ONG et groupements beneficiaires;
e mauvaise gestion des fonds alloues;
e inexistence de ressources financieres des ONG.
Solutions proposees:
* prendre en compte dans les couts des projets les frais de suivi et d'encadrement des
ONG;



xiii
* encourager les ONG candidates aux parrainages des initiatives a disposer de ressources
financieres propres et de faire preuve de creativite dans la mobilisation des ressources
financieres;
* encourager, aussi bien au niveau des ONG qu'au niveau des groupements, la
transparence dans la gestion des fonds alloues aux micro-projets.
* Problemes ies  l la selection des micro-projets et ai leur mise en ceuvre:
* l'inexistence de criteres objectifs de s6lection des ben6ficiaires de l'assistance financiere;
* l'insuffisance d'implication des acteurs au niveau de l'evaluation a mi-parcours;
* I'absence de criteres de choix des ONG pour le parrainage des projets.
Solutions recommandees:
* une reelle implication des Directions Regionales du Plan et du Developpement et des
communautes locales dans le processus d'analyse et d'approbation des projets;
* I'elaboration d'un manuel de procedure pour le choix des beneficiaires de l'assistance
financi6re;
* la decentralisation des structures de gestion des programmes de micro-projets;
* 1'encouragement de 1'evaluation participative a mi-parcours des projets;
* la determination des criteres de performance pour la selection des ONG candidates au
parrainage des groupements;
* la mise en place d'un fichier d'ONG credibles;
* l'instauration des rapports de collaboration etroite entre la cellule d'execution et les
ONG.
* Probleme Lies a la Mauvaise Connaissance du Milieu: La solution envisagee ici est une prise
en compte de la dimension socioculturel le du milieu par:
- l'implication des leaders d'opinion, des chefs traditionnels, des chefs religieux, et la prise
en compte des autres pratiques coutumieres propres au milieu;
* Ia mise en place d'un programme IEC (information, education et communication) et de
sensibilisation.
* Problames Lies  Ila Non Appropriation des Projets par les Populations
Solutions recommandees:
* developper au niveau des communautes de base l'idee d'appropriation des projets;
* associer les communautes beiieficiaires a toutes les etapes de la vie des micro-projets
(identification, formulation, execution, suivi-evaluation et exploitation);
* aider les populations a planifier la gestion du projet apres la periode de financement;
* formaliser les engagements entre ONG et les communautes dans le cadre de
l'appropriation en vue d'une plus grande responsabilisation des differents acteurs.
# Problames Lies au Manque de Concertation des Bailleurs de Fonds dans leurs Interventions



xiv
Solutions preonisees:
* necessite d'une concertation entre bailleurs de fonds en vue d'une coordination de leurs
interventions sur le terrain;
*  necessit6 d'une harmonisation des formes d'intervention.
Recommandations Sy6cifiques au Fonds Social
* mettre en place un cadre institutionnel appropri& base sur une reelle approche decentralisee et
particitpative;
* privilegier la formation des communautes de base;
* conferer un reel pouvoir aux structures a la base;
* mettre en place un systeme souple et flexible d'octroi de credit;
+ encourager la poursuite de la reflexion deja entamee en vue d'une elaboration consensuelle et
rapide du document de projet relatif au Fonds Social.
La seance pleniere qui a eu lieu dans l'apres-midi du vendredi 05 decembre 1997 a 16
heures a ete marquee par l'audition et l'adoption des rapports des travaux des trois commissions
dont ci-jointes les copies au present rapport general. La fin du seminaire a ete sanctionnee par une
ceremonie de cl6ture placee sous la co-presidence de Madame Monique GARRITY, Representant
Resident de la Banque Mondiale au Togo et de Monsieur YERIMA Esso-Wazina, Directeur
National du PAIDB. Dans son intervention Madame GARRITY s'est felicitee du bon deroulement
des travaux et des resultats encourageants obtenus au terme de ce seminaire-evaluation. Elle a, pour
conclure, souhaite l'institutionnalisation de cet exercice d'evaluation participative des programmes
de developpement a la base.
Flour sa part, Monsieur YERIMA a indique que les objectifs du seminaire-evaluation ont e
atteints grace a la participation de tous et a remercie les Bailleurs de Fonds pour leur disponibilite a
aider le Gouvernement togolais dans le financement et la mise en ceuvre des projets devant
contribuer a I'allegement de la pauvrete. Il a enfin emis le voeu que les riches enseignements issus
du prese:nt seminaire servent au projet de Fonds Social du Togo actuellement en cours d'6laboration.



