Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1993 TO
           (Grassroots Development Initiatives Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 18, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1993 TO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the
Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied  itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the  Project,  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to  extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Project Preparation  Advances"  means  the project pre-
paration advances granted by the  Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated  April  17,  1985 and April 30, 1985,
and May 5, 1986 and November  3, 1986 between the Borrower and the
Bank;
     (d)  "MPM"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  responsible for
Planning and Mining;
     (e)  "PDLP/NGO  Division"  means   the  division  within  MPM
responsible for PDLP and for liaison with NGOs;
     (f)  "PDLP" means the  "Programme  de  Developpement Local et
Participatif" of the Borrower;
     (g)  "NGO"  means  any  non-governmental  organization having
juridical personality  and  legally  authorized  to  carry out its
operations in the Borrower's territory;  and "Local NGO" means any
NGO  legally  established  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of the
Borrower;
     (h)  "PSC" means the  Project  Steering Committee referred to
in Section 3.03 and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (i)  "SSDP"  means   any   Small-Scale   Development  Project
selected for financing under  the  Project  in accordance with the
criteria set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (j)  "FONGTO"   means   Federation   des   Organisations  Non
Gouvernementales au Togo.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to three  million  and  eight  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs  a special account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
Page  3
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the  Bank  the  amount  required to repay the principal
amount  of  the   Project   Preparation   Advances  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1
commencing September  1,  1999  and  ending  March  1,  2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on March 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
Page  4
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of  Section  4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its  Ministry  of  Planning  and  Mining  with  due  diligence and
efficiency and in  conformity  with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  The  Borrower  shall  establish and thereafter
maintain the Project Steering Committee with membership, functions
and responsibilities as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section  3.04.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  under  Financing
Agreements satisfactory to the  Association,  make the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to  Category  (1)  of  the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1  to this Agreement available to eligible
NGOs as a  contribution  of  the  Borrower  to  the  cost of SSDPs
selected in accordance with the  criteria  set forth in Schedule 4
to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  exercise  its  rights  under  said
Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit and, except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the  Borrower  shall  not  change,  assign,  amend  or  waive such
Financing Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall:  (a) prepare and submit to
the Association by October 31 of each year for its approval a work
program to be executed during  the  following calendar year by the
PLDP/NGO Division; and (b) cause  FONGTO  to prepare and submit to
the Association through the  Borrower  by  October 31 of each year
the work program to be executed during the following calendar year
by FONGTO in furtherance of Part B.3 of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  the  Borrower has concluded with
FONGTO  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the  Association  for  the
carrying out of the Project.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Economy  and  Finance  is  designated  as  representative  of  the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
Page  6
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          P.O. Box 387
          Lome
          Republic of Togo
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIE TO                       5286
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                          By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods and                   2,350,000       100%
     services
     for SSDPs
(2)  Consultants'                  250,000       100%
Page  7
     services
(3)  Vehicles, computer            150,000       100%
     equipment, office
     supplies and
     materials
(4)  Operating costs               240,000       100%
(5)  Training                      120,000       100%
(6)  Refunding of                  340,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advances                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                   350,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                   3,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures in respect  of  items  such as fuel and vehicle
maintenance costs, and subsistence  expenses for travel related to
the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  expenditures for any SSDP  proposal unless such proposal
shall have been approved by  the  Association prior to the signing
of the Financing Agreement related thereto.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to: (a) improve the living
standards  of  the  poorest  segments  of  the  population  of the
Borrower  through  the  financing  of  community-based small-scale
development projects; (b) foster  cooperation between the Borrower
and  NGOs  operating  within  the  Borrower's  territory;  and (c)
strengthen the capability of local  NGOs to prepare, implement and
manage community-level projects.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Community-Based Small-Scale Development Projects
     Financing of eligible SSDPs.
Part B:   Institutional Development
1.   Strengthening  the  capability   of   PSC  to  evaluate  SSDP
proposals, assess  their  developmental  impact  and monitor their
execution.
2.   Reinforcement of the expertise  of MPM's division responsible
for managing the Borrower's program of cooperation with NGOs.
3.   Formulation and execution of  an action-program to strengthen
coordination of NGO  activities  through  FONGTO and reinforce the
capability of local NGOs to  efficiently prepare and execute their
development operations.
                           *   *   *   *
Page  8
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Methods
1.   Items or groups of items  including civil works, estimated to
cost CFAF 5,000,000 or  more  per  contract, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from  a  list  of  at  least  three  reputable suppliers
eligible under the  "Guidelines  for  Procurement under IBRD Loans
and  IDA  Credits"  published  by   the  Bank  in  May  1985  (the
Guidelines)  in  accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to  the
Association.
2.   Items or groups of items  including civil works, estimated to
cost less than  CFAF  5,000,000,  may  be  procured through direct
purchase.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each   contract,  estimated  to  cost
CFAF 5,000,000 or more, the  procedures  set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
A.   Eligibility Criteria for SSDPs
I.   To qualify for financing  under  the Project, any NGO wishing
to submit any SSDP proposal shall meet the following conditions:
     1.   have juridical  personality,  be  legally  authorized to
carry out developmental activities in Togo, and be affiliated with
FONGTO;
     2.   have a good  performance  record,  good knowledge of the
local environment, and a  demonstrated  capacity to mobilize human
and financial resources required to carry out the proposed SSDP;
Page  9
     3.   having performed in  Togo  for  at least two consecutive
years; in the case of  an exceptionally meritorious SSDP proposal,
PSC may reduce this requirement to one year;
     4.   submit a work program showing the proposed SSDP to be an
integral part of said work program; and
     5.   submit audited financial statements  for its last fiscal
year indicating  the  adequacy  of  its  accounting  and financial
management systems.
II.  To be eligible for  financing,  any  SSDP proposal shall meet
the following conditions:
     1.   be proposed by a  qualified  NGO  (the  SSDP idea may be
developed either by the proposing NGO or by a local community); an
ongoing project requiring additional financing may be considered;
     2.   show that it will improve the standard of living/working
conditions of the  intended  beneficiaries  who  must be among the
poorest members of the community concerned;
     3.   be justified and technically  feasible and manageable by
the intended beneficiaries;
     4.   at least 30 percent  of  the  total cost of the proposed
SSDP to be  financed  by  the  beneficiaries and/or the sponsoring
NGO; and
     5.   a clear assessment  of  recurrent  costs of the proposed
SSDP and  how  to  cover  them  must  be  provided  as  well  as a
description  of  specific  measures  to  be  taken  to  ensure the
participation of the  beneficiaries  in  the design, execution and
management of the proposed SSDP.
B.   Terms  and  Conditions  to   be  included  in  the  Financing
     Agreements between the Borrower and eligible NGOS
     1.   Any financing to  be  provided  for  any  SSDP shall not
exceed 70% of the total cost of said SSDP.
     2.   The sponsoring NGO shall carry  out and operate the SSDP
with due diligence  and  efficiency  and  in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial  standards, and shall maintain
adequate records and accounts.
     3.   (i) Goods and services to  be  financed for any SSDP and
estimated to cost more than  CFAF  5,000,000 per contract shall be
purchased at a reasonable  price,  after  price quotations from at
least three reliable suppliers  have been furnished, account being
taken also of other  relevant  factors  such  as time of delivery,
efficiency and  reliability  of  the  goods,  and  availability of
maintenance facilities and spare  parts  therefor and, in the case
of services, of their  quality  and  the competence of the parties
rendering them; and (ii) goods  and services financed for any SSDP
shall be used  exclusively  in  the  carrying  out of the proposed
SSDP.
     4.   The Association's right to  inspect by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Borrower,  if the Association shall so
request, goods, sites, works,  plants and construction included in
the proposed SSDP, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents.
     5.   Release of all such  information  as the Borrower or the
Association shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations  and  financial condition of the
sponsoring NGO and to the benefits to be derived from the proposed
SSDP.
     6.   The right of the  Borrower  to  suspend or terminate the
Page  10
right of the sponsoring  NGO  to  the  use  of the proceeds of the
financing upon  failure  by  such  sponsoring  NGO  to perform its
obligations under the Financing Agreement.
C.   Composition and responsibilities of PSC
     1.   PSC shall  be  composed  of  two  representatives of the
Borrower  and  two  respresentatives  designated  by  FONGTO. Each
representative shall have an  alternate.  Meeting  of PSC shall be
duly held when at least three of its members are present.
     2.   PSC shall carry out the following tasks:
     -    general guidance and monitoring  of the execution of the
          Project;
     -    programming and planning of activities to be carried out
          under the Project;
     -    appraisal/Evaluation of dossiers submitted in accordance
          with agreed procedures for financing under the Project;
     -    decision and selection  of  projects  to  be financed in
          accordance with  the  agreed  eligibility  and selection
          criteria;
     -    signature  on  behalf  of   the  Borrower  of  financing
          agreements to be concluded  between the Borrower and the
          NGO sponsoring an approved SSDP;
     -    monitoring and supervision of implementation of selected
          SSDPs through Project  Progress  Reviews  (PPRs) and ex-
          post evaluation; and
     -    review of  project  implementation  reports,  and of the
          Project Completion Report.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
Page  11
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories  less  the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered  into  by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02  of  the  General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Page  12
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
