Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24274
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41 120)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION
TO THE
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FOR
THE POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTRURING AND TRANSMISSION EXPANSION PROJECT
June 28, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 10, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pounds
LL 1,500 = US$ 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Gigawatthour (GWh) = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours(kWh)
IKilovolt (kV)= 1,000 Volts
1 Megawatt (MW) =1,000 Kilowatts kW)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDR                                Council for Developmemt and Reconstruction
CMT                                Co-Management Team
EdL                                Electricite' du Liban
EIB                                European Investment Bank
EIA                                Environmental Impact Assessment
ERRP                               Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
FIC                                First Instance Ex-appropriations Committee
GOL                                Government of Lebanon
LAP                                Implementation Action Plan
IDB                                Islamic Development Bank
MEW                                Ministry, of Electricity and Water
MHER                               Ministry of Hydraulics and Electric Resources
NCC                                National Control Center
PSRTP                              Power Sector Restructuring & Transmission Expansion Project
QAG                                Quality Assurance Group
SAR                                Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager/Director:  Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Samuel O'Brien Kumi



REEPUBLIC OF LEBANON
POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING & TRANSMISSION EXPANSION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               14
6. Sustainability                                                                   16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  18
9. Partner Comments                                                                 19
10. Additional Information                                                          21
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               29
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                 30
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                               33
Annex 10. Implementation Action Plan                                                40
Annex 11. Borrower's comments to the ICR                                            53
Maps: IBRD MAP # 26093
Map of transmission system status






Project ID: P036087                                     Project Name: LB-POWER SECT. RESTRUCT
Team Leader: Samuel A. O'Brien-Kumi                     TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR 7ype: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR         Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: LB-POWER SECT. RESTRUCT                      L/C/TF Number: SCL-41120
Country/Department. LEBANESE REPUBLIC                                 Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: PP - Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 07/15/1994                             Effective: 02/20/1997        05/15/1997
Appraisal: 09/17/1996                               MTR: 11/30/1998          11/20/1999
Approval:  11/26/1996                            Closing: 06/30/2003         01/09/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/ELECTRICITE DU LIBAN
Other Partners: European Investment Bank, Islamic Development Bank, French Protocol.
STAFF               Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Kamal Dervis
Country Manager:    Joseph P. Saba                           Inder Sud
Sector Manager:      Francoise Clottes                       Alistair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:  Sam O'Brien-Kumi                        Rama Skelton
ICR Primary Author:  Richard Berney (consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highily Satisfactoxy, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HU
Sustainability: HUN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: HU
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Project Background
Restoring continuous and reliable electricity supply in Lebanon was one of the most critical components of
the Lebanese Governnent's post-civil war reconstruction and development program to resuscitate the
economy and to bring life to normalcy. To achieve this, the Government's strategy was aimed at



rehabilitating the war damaged electricity supply infrastructure, and to expand supply through the
installation of modem more efficient facilities to meet the needs of the economy in a sustainable manner
over the long-term. To this end, the Government formulated a medium term (1995-2003) electric power
investment program projected to cost about $2.1 billion for generation, transmission, and distribution. The
priority was first to increase power generation capability by rehabilitating the existing generating plants
and to construct new capacities, prominently, two new modem combined-cycle plants to bring the total
power generating capability to about 2,600 MW. This was to be followed by the development of a new
high-voltage (220 - kilovolt) transmission network as the backbone of the power system, and the
rehabilitation and expansion of sub-transmission, medium and low voltage distribution networks to deliver
electricity to final consumers.
The Bank's involvement in the Lebanon power sector began with the Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (ERRP - Loan 3562) for the rehabilitation of the infrastructure damage during the
civil war. In the power sector, the loan was to support the rehabilitation of the Beirut distribution
system. During the preparation of the ERRP, a study completed in 1995 by consultants for the
Government identified problems in all areas of operations of Electricite' du Liban (EdL), the national
electric power utility; electricity losses (technical and- non-technical) were over 50% of net available
electricity, and collections of billed electricity were only 80%. In addition, EdL lacked the financial and
management autonomy for a normal operating utility, its organizational structure and human resources
were inadequate to function effectively, internal financial management and controls were also weak and
unreliable, and the operating deficits, then at about $200 million per year, and dependence on the
government budget was likely to worsen over time if no drastic actions were taken to address these
problems.
The strategic program for Bank support that emerged out of the dialogue with the Government was to focus
attention on the development of the new 220 kV transmission network, since most of the generation
investments have almost been completed, the internal restructuring of EdL to achieve efficiency and
viability in the shortest possible time frame, and reforms of the power sector to attract private investments
to support the needed improvements in distribution, especially, and future development of the sector. The
program supported by the Bank is the subject of this intensive learning implementation completion report.
Project Objectives
The key objectives of the Power Sector Restructuring and Transmission Expansion Project (as stated in the
Loan Agreement) were to assist Lebanon (the Borrower) in (a) expanding its high voltage transmission
system; and (b) establishing an enabling environment for private sector involvement in the power sector
including the institutional restructuring of the sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objectives were not revised during the lifetime of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
Based on the project's objectives, two main components were designed:
*      The physical component ($480 million, of which the Bank was to finance $59 million) comprised
the construction of an integrated national backbone 220-kV transmission system, consisting of 339
kilometers (Iam) of over-head transmission lines, 49 km of underground transmission cables, and associated
14 new 220-kV transformer substations; and
-2 -



*      The institutional development component ($6 million) provided technical assistance to: (i) EdL in
implementing the Project through the provision of training and consultants' services; and (ii) the Ministry
of Hydraulics and Electric Resources (MHER), now Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW), in
implementing the agreed institutional reform action program (the Program) as outlined in the Government's
Statement of Sector Development Policy for the Electricity Sector, and the time bounded Action Plan, also
an integral part of the Loan Agreement.
Project Cost and Financing
Project Cost
The project cost estimates were based on consultant project feasibility studies, and confirmed by the Bank
during project appraisal. The total project cost was estimated to be $486 million, made up of $63 million
for the over-head transmission lines, $113 million for the underground transmission cables, $229 million
for the substations, $6 million for technical assistance, $34 million for physical and price contingencies,
and $41 million for interest during construction. Of the total project cost, $89 million equivalent was in
local currency for the cost of acquisition of land right-of-way, and civil works, and the rest, $397 million,
in foreign currency.
Project Financing
The project was to be financed by several funding agencies, and the Bank. A Bank loan of $65 million, and
a partial credit guarantee for a $100 million Eurobond issue by the Government was approved by the
Board to the Government of Lebanon in November 1996 for the project. The Bank loan was to be on-lent
to EdL as the project executing entity.
The other financiers were: the European Investment Bank (EIB), $20 million; the Islamic Development
Bank (1DB), $31 million; the French Protocol, $5 million; commercial loans, $79 million; and buyers'
credits, to be provided by the transmission line contractors, $130 million. The Govermment was to provide
$56 million equivalent in local funds, primarily for land rights-of-way acquisition.
Although, the physical component of the project, as described above, is an integrated whole system (see
Map) requiring that all the sub-components, transmission lines, underground cables, and substations must
hang together technically for the integrated project to be functional, the financing was allocated by
segments, and sub-components for procurement reasons, and to facilitate implementation. Of the Bank
loan, $59 million was to be applied to about 24 km of the underground cables (IPC- Bahas) and three of the
substations (Baalbeck, Saida and Bsalim) and $6 million was to be for technical assistance.  This
allocation is discussed further in part 4.
Implementation Action Plan (IAP)
As part of the Loan and Project Agreements, a detailed project implementation action plan (LAP) with
time-bounded actions was agreed with the Government and EdL. The LAP (Annex 10) included dated
milestones for the expansion of the transmission system, including coming into force of the turnkey
construction contracts by December 1996 and their takeover certification by October 1999. In addition, it
had dated milestones for the construction of a National Load Control Center (NCC). The LAP also
required, among other actions, that all the existing thermal power station be placed under private sector
operation and management contracts by December 1998, distribution placed under a private concession by
-3 -



October 1998, the transmission expansion under the project completed by December 1998, and the coming
into force of the Electricity Law by March 1998. By the time of loan effectiveness in May 1997, it became
obvious that most of the actions would not be met in the agreed time frame. An updated LAP (Annex 10),
dated May 15, 1997, was developed and agreed with the Government with revised milestone targets before
the loan became effective . Under the updated IAP, all the contracts for the transmission components were
to be signed in January 1998 and were expected to be completed in 2000, and the recruitment of the
financial co-management team was to be implemented by November 1997. All the other actions were
revised about a year forward with the exception of the passage of the Electricity Law and the achievement
of financial solvency by EdL, which remained unchanged. The updated LAP became the basis of
monitoring implementation progress.
3.4 Revised Components:
At the mid-term review in November 1999, all the components of the physical investment were maintained,
since they were all part of a fully integrated backbone system. Their completion as such, were critical to the
technical integrity of the power system, and to the ability of the system to efficiently deliver electricity from
the generating plants to the final consumers. However, none of the measures agreed for the reform of the
sector, and the internal restructuring of EdL had yet been implemented. EdL's performance had further
deteriorated. The Bank was of the opinion that the only way to improve institutional performance was for
the private sector to take over responsibility for most, if not all, power generation and distribution
activities. The institutional restructuring objectives were, therefore, reconfirmed, with renewed Government
commitment to pass the required laws and to intensify actions for sector restructuring needed to bring
about, as quickly as possible, the enabling environment for private sector involvement in the sector. The
allocation under the Bank loan for technical assistance was increased by $2 million to support this greater
emphasis on sector reforms and restructuring. The updated LAP was revised (Annex 10), with new dates
specified for completion of actions that were supposed to have been completed already, and specific actions
needed to strengthen EdL were added, including the hiring of ten new qualified staff for the Financial
Department, and the implementation of a modern computerized financial accounting, the MIS system, and
the engagement of a consumer co-management consultant
TYhe NCC
Although included in the detailed IAP, the NCC was not part of the original project as defined above. It
was originally to be financed by the Bank and EIB under the earlier ERRP. It-was subsequently brought
into the project at the request of the Government (to be funded with the Bank and the Eurobond proceeds),
after EIB withdrew its financing because of delayed ratification of its loan by the Lebanese Parliament.
However, following difficulties encountered in the EdL procurement process, and the Govermment's
inability to award the contract after protracted delays, the Bank declared mis-procurement, and the funds
were reallocated.
Revised Project Cost
Based on the actual contract values obtained through the international competitive bidding process, the
project cost estimates and allocation of the Bank loan were revised at the mid-term review. The revised
total project cost came to $446.1 million, made up of $83.2 million for the over-head transmission lines,
$106.3 million for the underground cables, $188.5 million for substations, $13 million for technical
assistance, $39 million for price contingencies, and $15.7 million for interest during construction. The
estimate of the cost of land acquisition included in the total cost was revised to $60 million based on the
latest estimate provided by EdL.
-4-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry has been assessed under the following issues:
*      Was Government ownership of the project objectives sufficiently high and sustainable?
*      Was the investment component needed, and was it optimally designed?
*      Was the L4P realistic?
*      Was the institutional reform component needed?
*      Did project design adequately support thefinancial viability of EdL?
*      Were the risks offailure to achieve external restructuring too high?
*      Was sufficient attention paid to minimizing the institutional risk through support for the internal
reforms?
*      Was sufficient emphasis put on reducing the risk by requiring EdL to improve itsfinancial
management?
*      Should the Bank have supported the Eurobond issue?
Was the Government's Ownership of the project objectives sufficiently high and sustainable: The project
had the strong support of the Prime Minister, General Manager of EdL, the Minister of Hydraulic and
Electric Resources (MHER), all of whom considered it critical and essential for stabilizing the electricity
supply system, and improving both supply quality and reliability. This support was demonstrated by the
Prime Minister's request for several personal briefings on the project design and sector reform program
proposed by the Bank. Specific government actions in support of the power sector restructuring effort
included recapitalization of EdL by the conversion of $450 million of GOL debt into equity, and more
importantly, by the contracting out of meter-reading and billing of aU 2000 medium and high voltages
customers (accounting or 25% of projected revenues), including normalizing metering installations and
records for customers in two urban centers, comprising about 140,000 customers, where non-technical
losses are exceptionally high, and contracting EdL's meter reading and revenue collection activities for
200,000 customers outside of Beirut to 18 private agencies in early 1996. The appraisal team, therefore,
was confident that the same support and commitmnent would prevail, even though elections for a new
government were due to be held a month after Board presentation of the project.
Was the physical investment component needed, and was it optimally designed: The importance of the
new 220-kV backbone transmission system was not in doubt. Its design was also based on detailed
engineering feasibility study by reputable consultants. However, the realization of the full benefits of the
new 220 kV system was based on the completion of the complementary investments in sub-transmission,
and medium and low voltage networks. No funding sources were identified for these investments, which
were estimated to cost about $450 million between 1996 and 2003. These system components are still
without funding.
Was the LAP realistic: The updated LAP, although an improvement over the original LAP agreed at
negotiations, was still overly optimistic. It failed to take due account of the institutional weakness within
EdL, and the lack of capacity within the Ministry to undertake such an intensive program of activities. It
under-estimated the ability of the Government to translate commnitments into concrete actions in the light of
the political changes, and, therefore, the promulgation of an electricity law that was to provide the enabling
basis for the power distribution concessions in the stated time frame was remote. Due account was not
taken of the complexity of the issues of acquisition of land for the rights-of-way for the transmission
system development
Was the Institutional reform program needed: It was essential for the establishment of a sound,
- 5-



sustainable sector. EdL could not survive as a viable economic entity without major improvement in its
operations and organizational structure. In the longer ternn, private sector involvement was also essential to
finance future sector development in view of the limited capacity of the government to support further
investment in the sector.
Did the project design adequately support the financial viability of EdL: Making EdL a financially viable
entity was central to the achievement of the project's development objective. The project could not be
considered successful if EdL continued as unviable entity heavily dependent on government subsidies. The
SAR proposed that external restructuring would resolve this problem. If the political process blocked this
solution, the SAR claimed that EdL could become financially viable through internal reform measures. The
proposed sector restructuring and privatization was not expected for several years and was highly
problematic. The alternative process of internal reforms was not supported by a time bound action. The
QAG review of supervision in June 1998 stated: "Unless the Government takes action on sector
restructuring to allow the financial recovery of the sector/power company, the sector and the project are not
sustainable."
Were the risks offailure to achieve external restructuring too high: Financial viability was expected to be
achieved through a total sector restructuring, including the unbundling of all generation, transmission. and
distribution activities, and the introduction of management contracts, initially, in generation and distribution
activities under an independent regulatory body. To restructure and unbundle the sector, or even to allow
EdL to contract private firms to operate its generation or distribution assets, the Government had first to
revise the 1996 Electricity Law and the 1964 EdL law. Although no action had yet been taken to initiate the
process at the time of Board approval in November 1996, the Bank accepted the Government's proposal to
pass a comprehensive new Electricity Law through parliament by March 1998. It was acknowledged in the
SAR that there was a high risk of not achieving this objective. In light of the lack of action prior to loan
approval, or before project effectiveness, the ICR concludes that the risk of the Government being unable to
pass the passage of appropriate legislation within the time frame envisaged, and therefore of the project
failing to achieve the projects goals was far greater than the Bank would normally accommodate. In June
1998, QAG wrote: "While the project may still make a positive contribution to the economy, it is doubtfil
that it will reach its development objectives. In hindsight, the Bank should have insisted on up-front actions
with regard to the restructuring of the power sector."
Was sufficient attention paid to minimizing the institutional risk through support for internal reforms:
While the SAR recognized the possibility that the Govermment might be unable to pass the laws needed to
restructure the sector within the time period proposed, it minimized the problems that this failure would
create, by suggesting, as indicated in the SAR, that internal reforms could greatly mitigate the institutional
problems. In addition, the SAR appeared to give greater importance to the physical component by
suggesting that "even if the Govenmment decided against restructuring EDL, the investment component
would still be viable in that it would permit evacuation of power from new power stations to consumers,
and the only loss would be the financial viability of EdL."
Was sufficient emphasis put on reducing the risk by requiring EdL to improve its financial management
practices: EdL was in poor financial condition in the mid 1990s. Net income had been negative since the
end of the civil war. It was negative US$127 million in 1994 and negative US$151 million in 1995. Even
with the reforms envisaged, the SAR projected that it would not turn positive until 2000 (US$109 million
in 2000 and US$208 million in 2001). EdL was getting paid for less than half the electricity it was
producing. The Commercial Department was essentially non-functional, and EdL staff had no incentive to
improve its billing and/or collection rates. Audits of EdL's books were more than a year late. According
to the SAR, EdL did not have appropriate costing, budgeting or budgetary control systems. Financial
- 6 -



information was so poor and the problems so widespread that the Auditors had been unable to provide even
a "qualified" approval of the accounts.
The Government's letter of Sectoral Development Policy stated that EdL's financial management would be
reinforced through "the use of external consultants in line positions for an interim period of three years,"
during which time EdL would recruit and train permanent qualified staff to replace them. The idea was to
establish a "financial co-management team," that would assume full line responsibility for the accounting
and finance functions of EdL, worldng with an extemally recruited chief financial officer. The Action Plan
that the Bank negotiated with EdL failed to mention any specific actions that EdL would have to take to
implement the financial co-management team concept Because there was no defined position of a Chief
Finance Officer in the EdL company law, and the Bank did not insist to create this functional position, the
co-management plan became a consultancy activity without the "co-managers" having any authority to
make or influence decisions.
Should the Bank have supported a Eurobond issue at this time: Use of a Eurobond for this project created
three problems. First, it required EdL to take on a large debt many years before the funding was necessary
from the project. At the time of the ICR review, five years after the Bond was floated, only about $51
mrillion of the $97.7 million available has been disbursed for the project. The project team questioned the
wisdom of floating a Eurobond placement. Procurement was experiencing delays and would be at least a
year behind the original projections, so the funds would not be needed immediately. It pointed out that
early placement would place an additional financial burden on EdL by reducing the time between the
completion of the project (and the subsequent benefit flow to EdL) and the bullet repayment. Bank
Management decided to go ahead with the Eurobond placement Even after formally closing its own loan,
the Bank is still legally responsible, in accordance with the Indemnity Agreement, for ensuring that the
undisbursed balance of this Eurobond is utilized for the project in a financially prudent manner.
Second, the Eurobond effectively front loaded Bank support for the project, greatly reducing the Bank's
leverage to accomplish the agreed sector reform program. In response to a query from an ED office on the
issue of loss of policy leverage with the guarantee, staff replied: "guarantees are targeted for sectors where
policy reforms are already taking place and where they can be used to further deepen the reform or
strengthen the policy dialogue." But policy reform had not taken place before Board presentation, and did
not take place in the following five years. Third, decisions on project conditionality and timing of project
preparation, and approval appear to have been driven, to a considerable extent, by the timing requirements
of the Bond issue.
Given the institutional, financial, and technical risks inherent in the project design, and the lack of effective
proposals for dealing with these risks, the ICR judges the Quality at Entry as highly unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's objective (a) to expand the high voltage transmission system has not been met. It is about
80% physically complete, and unlikely to be completed before mid-2005, at the earliest, compared to the
loan agreement project completion date of December 31, 2002, and the expected mid-2000 completion date,
if the updated IAP procurement schedule had been followed. Construction of portions of the over-head
transmission line in densely populated areas has been delayed by difficulties in the acquisition of the
rights-of-way. In addition, the contracts for two key substations is yet to be awarded; the substations are
unlikely to be completed before 2005. Since the 220-kV network is an integrated system, all components
must be completed for it to be fully functional. Although the use of some of the completed lines and
-7 -



substations will marginally improve the efficiency, and power transfer capability, the full benefits will only
be achieved when it is completed and fully integrated with the rest of EdL's power system, and the
necessary complementary investments in the medium and low voltage distribution networks are made to
enable the delivery of power to final consumers.
The objective (b), of establishing an enabling environment for private sector involvement in the power
sector including the institutional restructuring of the sector, has not been met. None of the agreed
institutional reform measures, which were considered essential for the achievement of the project's
development objectives, have been implemented.  Both the implementation performance and the
development objectives have been rated as unsatisfactory, since the mid- 1997 supervision mission, and
have remained so (for 54 months) until the loan was closed in January 2002. As a result, the project
outcome, to date, must be considered as highly unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The transmisswn system: The agreed updated implementation schedule to complete the transmission
system component of the project by mid-2000, even-though the overall project completion date in the legal
documents was December 31, 2002, was based on the following considerations:
*      By the time of appraisal of the project, the implementation management consultant had already
been appointed by the Government, and the detailed technical specifications for all the components of the
transmission system had already been prepared for the tender documents;
*      Government undertaking to ensure timely acquisition of the land for the rights-of-way. The law
providing for funding had been passed; and
*      The urgent need for increased power transfer capability, which the transmission system was to
bring about, to enable the evacuation of power from the newly constructed combined cycle plants to the
load centers in the country.
To facilitate financing, procurement, and speedy implementation, the bid documents were divided into eight
self-contained supply-erect-commission contracts for competitive bidding as follows:
Transmission Lines
>      Lot A: Zahrani-Aramoun, Sour- Zahrani, Aramoun-Bsalim and Aramoun. Total length 112 kn.
Financed by commercial credit;
>      Lot B: Bsalim-Bahas. Total length of 73 km, financed by commercial credit
>      Lot C: D'Nbough (Nord)-Ksara, total length 152 km, and financed by the Islamic Development
Bank.
Underground Cables
>      Lot 1: Beirut area. Aramoun- Pins, Pins -Ras Beyrouth, Ras Beyrouth -Commercial, Pins-
Commercial and Commercial -Mkalles of total length 37.5 km. Financed by buyers' credit, and EIB.
>      Lot 2: Tripoli area. IPC- Bahas, total length 24 km, financed (in part) by the World Bank.
Substations
>      Lot 1: GIS substations at Aramoun, Pins, Ras Beyrouth and Mkalles, financed by buyers' credit;
>      Lot 2: Conventional outdoor substations at Ksara, Sour and Halate, financed by buyers' credit
>      Lot 3: GIS substations at Baalbeck, Saida and Bsalim, financed (in part) by the World Bank
- 8 -



The Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) was given the responsibility for managing the
procurement and implementation of all the "Lots" except for substations "Lot 3", which was to be managed
by EdL. The contracts for the "Lots" managed by CDR were awarded on time, but physical
implementation suffered delays mainly because of the difficulties that arose with the rights-of-way
acquisition, and the protracted delay of about one year in the ratification of the IDB loan by the Parliament
Most contracts have been awarded, but none had been completed by the scheduled date of mid-2000, as per
the updated LAP.
Substations "Lot 3" managed by EdL suffered even greater delays due to lack of coordinated decision
making on contract awards, on the part of EdL management, Board of Directors, and the Ministry, even
after the Bank has given its no-objection to the evaluation, and the recommendation for contract award. In
addition, EdL did not establish an implementation management unit for the project
During the Mid-term Review, the implementation schedule was reviewed and a revised schedule for
completion of all contracts was agreed and incorporated in the Revised LAP. Those managed by CDR were
to be completed by December 2000, and those managed by EdL were to be completed by January 2002.
These new schedules were incorporated in a revised Implementation Action Plan agreed with the
Government as part of the amendments to the legal documents. All the CDR managed contracts met the
revised completion dates, with the exception of segments of Lot A (Aramoun-Bsalim), and Lot B (Bsalim-
Bahas) in densely populated areas, because of the delays in the acquisition of the rights-of-way. These are
expected to be completed by end-2002.
The Bsalim substation contract has been awarded, and construction is expected to be completed by
end-2002, after several months delay due to difficulties in the acquisition of rights-of-way. The contracts
for the other two substations (Baalbeck, and Saida) are yet to be awarded, even though, the bids were
received by EdL in August 1998. The delay in contract award is primarily due to indecision on the part of
EdL Management, the Board of Administration, and the Ministry. Their current scheduled completion
date is mid- 2005. Until these substations are completed, the evacuation of power from the Zahrani
combined cycle plant in the south of Lebanon, and one of the most efficient plants in the power system will
be severely constrained resulting in its sub-optimal operation
(higher fuel cost, and lower output).
Substation Repair: EdL's transmission and distribution system, including two of its major substations, one
in the north and one in the south were bombed by Israel in 1999 and 2000. The Government requested that
project funds be used to rehabilitate the northern substation, which was needed to evacuate power from the
new combined cycle power plant This project component was completed on schedule in April 2002.
The NCC: Procurement and implementation management was the responsibility of EdL. After several
delays, bids solicited through international competition were received in August 1998. There were several
controversies about the evaluation process that substantially delayed the process. The Bank gave its
no-objection to the contract award in August 2000, but EdL did not award the contract. Under
the circumstances, the Bank declared mis-procurement of the contract in September 2000
The instittonal development component: To date, none of the measures agreed either on the internal
reforms within EdL to improve performance and viability or for the sector reforms to create the enabling
environment for private sector participation has been fulfilled. A draft electricity law, which was approved
by the Cabinet in July 2000 and submitted to the Parliament thereafter for approval, was withdrawn by the
-9-



new Government in November 2000. EdL remains institutionally and financially weak for the reasons
given earlier. Electricity losses have remained high at about 47% of net available supply, collection of
billed consumption is 80-83%, arrears have climbed up about 15 months of revenue, equivalent to about
$500 million - about 80% of which is owed by the private sector, and operating losses amount to about
$300 million/year. EdL has not met any of the financial covenants, even when the dates were moved
backwards in the amended legal documents following the agreements reached with the Govermment during
the mid-term review. Repeated attempts through the supervision missions to improve the situation did not
yield any results. Under these circumstances, the Bank and the Government agreed, in July 2001, that the
project was no longer able to meet the intended development objectives. At the request of the Government,
the unutilized balance of about $19 million of the Bank loan was cancelled, and the loan was closed in
January 2002.
Internatonal Financing: Because the backbone 220 kV transmission line was to operate as an integrated
unit, the Bank originally proposed joint financing for the project When this proved unworkable, the
project was unbundled for parallel financing, with each lender using its own bidding and documentation
requirements. Under this arrangement, Parliament, which was required to approve each loan package, had
approved the IBRD, EIB and IDB loans. The Export Credit Agency's buyers credit ($130 million) and the
commercial loans ($79 million) were to be provided by the winniing bidders of some of the procurement
packages. The SAR did not appear to be concerned about completing the financial package. It handled
this risk by stating: "in event of delay in obtaining adequate financing, assurances were obtained . ..that the
proceeds from the bond sale would be appled directly to project costs and the period of project
implementation adjusted accordingly."
Local Financing: The SAR estimated that $65 million in local funds would be needed for purchase of land
and rights-of-way. Since EdL was financially insolvent, these funds were to come from the Government.
Purchase of the right-of-way was supposed to have been completed before the contractors started to build
the overhead power lines. These funds were approved by Parlament in the same legislation that approved
the World Bank loan. However, the loan agreement failed to make time bound provision for allocating
these funds, and no special account was established to ensure that they would not be used for other
purposes. EdL was unable to obtain these funds when they were needed, before the contractors were
mobilized. EdL was able to move forward with its land acquisition program without the necessary funding.
It paid out only LL27 billion (US$18 million) through mid 2000. In late 2000 it received an additional
LL32 billion (US$21 million), which it is in the process of paying. EdL estimates that the total requirement
is about LP90 billion (US$60 million). EdL is still short about LP30 billion (US$ 20 million) to pay
landowners whose land they have already confiscated.
Land Acquisition: Difficulties in obtaining right of way access for the transmission lines has caused
significant delays in building of the 220 kV line. There are at least a half a dozen spots where construction
has been halted due to unresolved problems. Contractors who have had to keep their teams in the field until
the work is completed are demanding compensation for the delays, significantly increasing project costs.
Recording of Right of Way Expropriations: EdL met its responsibilities by preparing a routing plan that
minimized the impact of the tramnsmission line and obtaining the necessary appropriations decree. EdL was
not formally responsible for informing landowners that the transmission line would go through their land.
Nor were they responsible for ensuring that the Real Estate Secretariat recorded the expropriation notices
in the local Official Real Estate Registers. However, the Government officials responsible for these actions
were not always able to do the job in a timely fashion. As a result, some landowners did not find out about
the expropriations for more than three years, and some only learned about it when the First Instance
Ex-appropriations Committee (FIC) called them to attend valuation hearings. While EdL was not legally
-10-



responsible for informing landowners, it needed to ensure that the process worked. The result has been that
in several cases landowners had built apartment houses on land under the right of way for the transmission
lines, causing considerable economic losses.
Delayed Payments: The most important cause for the delay in completing the transmission lines has been
the inability of EdL to raise the funds needed to pay landowners for their confiscated property. According
to the land expropriation law, payment is supposed to be made immediately after the commission has
declared the value, and, land takeover is not supposed to occur before payment is made. If payment is more
than six month's delay interest is supposed to be paid. And if the delay exceeds two years the owner has
the right to ask the FIC for a new current estimate. Because of the urgency of completing the transmission
line, EdL has been able, in many instances, to obtain the landowner's permission to build the transmission
towers and string the line before payment had been made, or has resorted to "temporary use" regulations,
which are inappropriate for use in areas that are to be expropriated. Unfortunately, due to the delays in
providing the funds needed to make these payments, many landowners have yet to be paid at the time of the
ICR mission (May 2002). Nor has EdL offered, as a company policy, to pay interest on the amount due,
as the law stipulated. There is as far as the mission could determine, no schedule for paying in full the
amounts due, and no systematic method to determine the order in which landowners are to be paid. This is
a breech of Bank guidelines. In addition, landowners have complained that many of their fruit trees were
damaged during the construction work and the sites were not properly cleaned up after the construction was
completed. No process has been put into place to assure quality control or payments for damages occurred.
Environment; The EIA had several deficiencies. First, after identifying the potential problems of noise
and microwave radiation for dwellings close to the high voltage line, and describing the German standard
for dealing with these problems, it failed to establish guidelines for handling the problem. As a result the
transmission lines pass over several dwellings, with unknown consequences. In addition, some groups have
taken a strong stand against the lines passing even within several hundred yards from their dwellings.
Without a set of agreed standards on how to handle this matter, it is almost impossible to convince these
groups that they have nothing to worry about
The EIA also failed to review the environmental impact of the choice of specific substation locations. This
led to a serious problem with the location of the Ras Beirut substation. It was originally proposed to be
located at a significant Beirut landmark and tourist attraction. Fortunately, local politicians objected to this
location, and EdL was forced to find another more suitable spot
The Procurement Process: The Bank never insisted that EdL create and staff a dedicated, professional
project management team. In 2000, EdL finally agreed to establish a high level steering committee to
facilitate project-related decision-making. However, this internal committee, which included department
managers who were having enough problems with running their own departments, was not given any
authority or responsibility for implementation. It met only once in the following year.
Most of the contracts were handled by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR), with the
technical assistance of EdL. This process worked quite smoothly. Contracts for the National Control
Center (NCC) and for two of the substations were handled by EdL independently from CDR The
procurement process for these contracts have faced many difficulties. The Bank declared mis-procurement
for the NCC, and closed the loan before the problems with the substations could be resolved. The problem
has been one of diffused multiple responsibility for loan approval.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:



The 220 KV backbone grid will provide urgently needed transmission capacity as an integral part of the
sector's priority investment program. It is an integral element in the nation's power system, without which
the power from the two combined cycle generating plants under construction could not be delivered to
consumers. For this reason, the original calculation of the economic rate of return was based on the
expected return from a time slice of EdL's optimum investment program, with all elements in place. The
economic rate of return was estimated to be about 17%. It is not possible to replicate this analysis on an
ex-post basis because the idealized investment program hypothesized by the SAR has yet to be
implemented so that the projected declines in technical and non-technical system losses have failed to
materialize. Furthermore, as a result of the sizable gap in the medium voltage distribution system, the
system is unable to evacuate all the power that can be produced by the new combined cycle generating
plants. The result has been significant under-utilization of these power plants and higher technical losses,
and network outages and unserved energy than was assumed. In addition, the Bank's assumptions about
increases in tariffs, demand growth projections at 7-8% per year have all proved highly optimistic.
As a result of all of these factors, EdL is expected to continue to sustain substantial financial and economic
losses. For example for the past several years, revenue generated has been less than the cost of fuel. In
2000, fuel consumption and purchased power cost about $470 million compared to electricity sales revenue
of $422 million. The operating loss was about $250 million in equivalent 2000, and is estimated to be
about $300 million in 2001. While no ERR was calculated, it appears reasonable to suggest that the actual
rate of return to a time slice of EdL's actual investment program in the second half of the 1990 and the first
half of the current decade has been highly negative, and will continue to be negative until the Govemment
undertakes concerted action to restructure the sector and revitalize EdL.
Nevertheless, it is clear that the backbone transmission system is an essential critical component of the
national power system's operating system, and that opportunity cost of not completing it (and reinforcing
the major distribution systems) has been high. The combined cycle power plants are currently operating as
single cycle plants because their full power capacity cannot be evacuated and used. The surplus heat that
should have gone to the combined cycle boilers has had to be discharged into the atmosphere. This means
that some nearly 300 MW of power that could have been produced without any additional fuel or capital
costs has been shut in, and many of the high cost diesel generators, operated by industries that were to shut
down when the new power supply was available are still operating to supplement the weak national system.
The problem is not just in the delayed transmission backbone. The sector plan included a $450 million
investment program to connect the substations to the medium voltage distribution line and to reinforce
them, an investmnent program that is needed to assure that the power from the new substations could be
efficiently evacuated from the substation. This investment program needs to be implemented to ensure that
the available power gets to the final consumers. This investment has not been made, and without it, much
of the available new power can be transmitted through the grid, but still will not reach the final consumers.
When.this transmission grid is completed, system losses can be expected to decline, and the system will
function much more effectively, which it does today, even though it will remain far below optimum until the
required investment in medium and low voltage lines is implemented. Thus, in the early years, project
benefits will be substantially less ffian they might have been under optimum conditions. However, the
distribution system will eventually catch up and enable the transmission system to be fully and effectively
utilized.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not in SAR. Not Applicable for a transmission project.
- 12 -



4.5 Institutional development Impact:
The Acton Plan for Sector Reform: The project was made effective in May 1997 after the Action Plan
had been updated to postpone the agreed implementation date for some actions. However, the June 1998
supervision mission found that no action had been taken on any of the critical institutional matters
identified in the updated Action Plan, including (i) draft electricity law and draft EdL law: (ii) risk
assessment study; (iii) submission of the financial audits for 1996 and 1997; (iv) Tariff Study; (v) write-off
of arrears; (vi) Leasing assets to private sector (afferrnage). The mission noted that while most parties in
management and the Government wanted to comply with project agreements, no decisions or actions were
taken, and as such no progress was ever made on the critical financial issues, including those related to
billings and collections and electricity loss reductions.
The project supervision team was reshuffled in late 1998. The new team took the position that, given the
lack of progress on internal reform, restructuring and privatization was the only means to reverse the
deteriorating performance of EdL. At the midterm review in November 1999, Bank staff believed that
while implementation was unsatisfactory, due mainly to conflicts between EdL's Management and it's
Board, and the Ministry, things could still be turned around because both the Government and EdL were
still committed to the broad development objectives of the project, including its sector reform and
restructuring strategy. As a result, increased emphasis was placed on improving the performance of EdL,
and the allocation under the Bank was consequently increased to support it Agreement was also reached
on a new timetable for the Govemment to achieve the Action Plan objectives. There were no modification
of project objectives and no significant restructuring. None of the actions agreed were implemented by the
Govermment and EdL.
External reform: Without a change in the law, even the first steps towards privatization, such as an
affermage program in which private firms would take responsibility for running specific distribution
systems, could not be implemented. The Bank reviewed several drafts of the proposed electricity law, and
suggested ways to strengthen it and make it a more useful vehicle for supporting privatization of the sector.
However, the drafting of the law was a Government responsibility, and the Bank needed to be careful to
avoid the appearance of dictating how it should be written. The process for engaging consultants for the
restructuring of EdL had also been started by the Ministry. Towards the end of 2000, the political situation
changed again. The new Cabinet took the decision to place EdL under a management contract for a
period of three years, in which the contractor would be required to hold a 15% stake of EdL purposely to
turn EdL around into an efficient and viable utility. Improving its financial and operational efficiency, and
the draft electricity law, which was then being reviewed in Parliament for approval, was withdrawn to
revise it in line with the Government's change in approach to the restructuring and privatization of the
sector. By September 2001 a redrafted Electricity Law had been submitted to Cabinet, where it remained
until early in 2002. This draft is now -spring 2002- moving swiftly through the parliamentary process. It is
expected to be passed before Parliament adjourns for the summer.
Internal Reform through the Co-Management Team (CM7): At the time of project appraisal, there had
been strong agreement with EdL senior managers and Board about the need for strengthening EdL's
financial operations. Since EdL did not have the technically qualified staff to bring about, on its own, the
introduction of modem financial management techniques and management information systems, it was
agreed (and included into the Government's Sector Strategy Memorandum) that EdL would hire a team
from a consulting firm to act as co-manager of its Finance Department. The terms of reference for this
technical assistance effort was not finalized until June 1997, nine months after appraisal, and it took
another year for the bidding process to be completed and for the consultants to be hired. By the time the
CMT was in place, EdL's senior management and its Board had been replaced by new persons, and
support for using CMT in a line position had evaporated. It was anticipated that the consultants, as line
- 13-



co-managers in the finance department, would report to EdL's General Manager and have full access to its
Board, (including the right to attend Board meetings and to have access to the Board Minutes when they did
not attend), just as the Director of Finance had. Instead the consultants were directed to report to the
Director Finance, were invited to only one Board meeting, and were denied access to the Board minutes.
The Bank raised their concerns about these issues to EdL management in June 1998, shortly after the team
started its work, but did not formally raise it with MEW officials. Given the lack of access to the senior
managers of EdL, the CMT could only make suggestions for operational improvements to the Finance
Department, the same department that had been unable after more than five years, to organize its financial
date sufficiently to achieve a clean, unqualified audit. The Finance Department was not even able to
reconcile its account balances in the forty or so banks that it held cash accounts. At one point the
reconciliation of monthly account balances was more than two years behind.
During its first 18 months, the CMT identified specific problems that needed to be resolved in the areas of
collection, disbursement, financial budgeting management, fixed assets accounting, inventory control, and
automation and presented EdL management with several critical reports, including (i) a Treasury functions
design; (ii) a Personnel needs assessment (July 2000); (iii) a Financial reporting manual (Sept 2000); and
(iv) a Chart of Accounts needed to facilitate data and information retrieval (MIS) (April 2001). None of
these reports were approved by EdL's Board for broader discussion with the Bank. Nor have any of the
reports been translated into French or Arabic for broader internal distribution within EdL. Lack of funding
for translations is another example of where the project design failed to take into account the realities on the
ground. It was left out of the consultant contract because the Bank expected that EdL would pay for the
translations. When EdL could not fund it, it was simply not done.
At the mid-term review in November 1999 the Bank supervision team placed great emphasis on the CMT's
recommendations, and negotiated a detailed plan for implementing these recommendations in the Midterm
Review Action Plan, including the hiring, on contract, of ten new accounting professionals to provide the
EdL counterpart staff to work in parallel with the CMT. Although the Bank continued to request that EdL
hire these personnel and meet the other commitments of the action plan, EdL failed to carry out any of the
agreed actions. The mid-term review also included an agreement on a new co-management program for the
Department of Consumer Affairs, to analyze and do something about the major causes of EdL's persistent
high levels of non-technical electric losses. Terms of reference for this team were agreed, but EdL failed to
implement it.
In the light of the foregoing, the Institutional Development Impact is assessed to be negligible.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
EdL's transmission and distribution system, including two of its major substations, one in the north and one
in the south were bombed by Israel in 1999 and 2000. These incidents diverted the attention of EdL's
management and high-level technical staff, to resolving the immediate electricity supply crisis, for many
months at a time.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Decision making processe: Lebanon's governnment is based on the principles of compromise and division
of power among several political factions. EdL's management and Board reflect this political reality. As a
result, it is often difficult to reach consensus agreement on operational matters. This division of authority
and lack of clear decision-making has been the cause of significant delays in implementing both the
physical and institutional project components.
- 14 -



Tariffs: The Govenmment has not met its project commitments to raise tariffs. The Bank review mission
recommended that a detailed tariff review study be imnplemented by the end of 1994. No action was taken
before the project was sent to the Board. Istead the LSDP called for its implementation in 1998. At
appraisal (early 1996), the Bank was told that tariffs would be increased in March 1996. At negotiations
(Summer 1996), the Action Plan in the LSDP pushed the adjustment to March 1997, (where it would
become a defacto condition of loan effectiveness.) In the May 1997 supervision the mission was informed
that' it would be introduced in September 1997. The Action Plan was revised to comply with this new
defacto situation, and the Loan was declared effective. In October 1997 the MOF told the Bank that at that
time a tariff increase was not considered feasible on social/political grounds, and in the light of the
continuing high electricity losses, and low collections by EdL. Furthermore, the presidential campaign that
was currently underway would preempt any tariff adjustment in the coming year.
Sector Restructuring: At the time of project preparation, the Government was committed, to restructuring
and privatizing the sector so that it would become more efficient and less of a burden on the central budget.
The Government had committed itself to submit the appropriate legislation to Parliament by January 1998.
However, it was unable to introduce the legislation needed to reach this goal. The Bank continued to press
on this matter, reviewing several pieces of proposed legislation, one of which was submitted to Parliament,
only to be later withdrawn. Late in 2001 the Government forwarded a new Electricity Law (EL) to
Parliament that it expects to be passed before the summer. It has already passed a new telecommunications
Law, so the prospects for the EL look promising. The Government has hired a consulting consortium to
assist it with devising an effective privatization strategy. Bank advice has not been requested in support for
these actions.
Institutional strengthening: During project preparation, The Government also expressed its desire and
intent to strengthen EdL's internal operations. However, it failed to appoint a Board of Directors that
could work effectively with EdL management and carry out this institutional strengthening process. Nor
was the government able to provide EdL with the resources and authority needed to hire and train new
technical (engineering, financial and managerial) staff needed to improve its internal operations.
Financing: One of the continuing sources of project implementation delay has been inability of the
Government to allocate the local funds needed to purchase the necessary right-of-way for the transmission
lines, as agreed under the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Financial Reform: EdL failed to support the consulting group which was supposed to "co-manage" its
financial and commercial activities, and was unable to improve its accounting and billing activities to an
acceptable intemational level. It has not implemented any of the procedural recommendations of the
co-management team, and has not yet been able to procure the necessary hardware and software to
mechanize its accounting and management information system.
Procurement decision making: EdL has been unable to implement a procurement decision maling process
needed to reach consensus on awarding bids for the Baalbeck and Saida transmission substations. Problems
with the NCC were so great that the Bank found it necessary to drop the component on the grounds of
misprocurement.
Improving payments record EdL has the authority to cut off those customers who failed to pay their bills
on a timely basis, and to take legal action against those customers with illegal connections. It has yet to use
this legal authority to threaten any of its non-paying customers with legal action.
- 15-



Audits: The Bank requires that its borrowers keep their accounts based on international accounting
standards and present to the Bank audited accounts that meet international standards, in a timely manner.
In the six years that the Bank has been working with EdL, EdL has been unable to make even the most
limited fundamental reforms in its accounting practices that are needed to bring these accounting practices
to international standards. As a result, it is still unable to close its books in a reasonable time period, and
the Auditors have been unable to provide an opinion on the validity of EdL's account
Insurance: The Bank requires its borrowers to establish a risk management program and insure their
assets. EdL has yet to comply with this requirement
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project cost estimate was $486 million, including interest during construction, but excluding
land costs and purchased rights of way. A currently estimated cost, including estimated interest during
construction, and also excluding land costs, is $446 million. Savings came from lower cost technology for
substation transformers, and from lower than expected bid prices.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Project Sustainability is Highly Unlikely. As explained in the memorandum of the President, the project
sustainability was dependent on a political comniitment to carry out the structural reforms, and
implementation of these reforms, including the introduction of an unambiguous legal framework, including
an impartial regulatory framework. The incentive structure and regulatory framework that was to be made
part of the operating contracts (affermage) for the electricity generating and distribution activities was
expected to further assure the project's sustainability and efficient management by providing the private
sector with full operational responsibility. Without this political commitment to structural reform,
sustainability of the sector is highly unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Effective operation of the transmission system requires a national dispatch system (NCC), the
implementation of which has yet to be started. Without this NCC system efficiency gains are likely to be
limited. However, unless the system is damaged by outside forces (as parts of it have been in the past), it
needs little in the way of maintenance and can be expected to provide long service and substantial
efficiencies when completed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank focused most of its attention during the preparation stage on achieving fast implementation of the
project's physical investment component All the procurement documents were completed before the project
became effective. It also undertook a detailed analysis of EdL's financial and financial management
difficulties, but did not agree to provide an agreed terms of reference for the financial co-management team
until mid-1997. As discussed in the section on Quality of Entry, project design had several serious flaws,
including an overly optimistic assessment of the likelihood of sector reform, inadequate back-up plans to
improve EdL's financial viability and financial management, the absence of a PIU within EdL, lack of
integration of the investment programs for the medium voltage and high voltage transmission lines,
unresolved issues on the choice of transformer technology for certain transformer substations, lack of a
- 16-



fully funded financial plan, and inadequate institutional arrangements to ensure that funding for local costs
of land acquisition would be available as needed. Furthermore, the project was sent to the Board just before
a major parliamentary election. The Bank did not know who would be responsible for implementing it once
it was approved. Given the above factors, the Bank's performance during project preparation must be
judged as highly unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Once the project was being implemented, the Bank made every effort to convince the Government to meet
its institutional reform commitments. It provided detailed support for and reviews of various draft
legislation related to restructuring the electricity sector. In June 1998, one year after the loan became
effective, the QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment, judged supervision to be satisfactory. Even at that
early date QAG noted, however, that, "in view of the poor prospects of achieving the project objectives, the
task team will need to consider suspension of disbursement with a view to cancellation of the project.
Management action has been protracted and is needed." Subsequent Bank supervision missions did suggest
that the Government be officially warned that cancellation might be considered if no action were taken on
the agreed Action Plan. No action was taken for the next three years.
The Bank supervision team changed in early 1999, shortly before the mid-term review. Even in the face of
weak implementation performance by the Govermment and EdL, the Bank remained highly optimistic that
with the proper Government support, sector reform was feasible. In response to the Government's request
for reconstruction assistance after several transmission substations were damaged by Israeli bombs, the
Bank was able to add an additional component to finance the reconstruction of one of the substations. At
the same time, the Bank does not appear to have paid sufficient attention to the critical issue of obtaining
local financing for the right-of-way payments that EdL needed to meet its legal obligations to pay
landowners for the use of their land.
Given the above, the ICR assesses the Bank performance during supervision as unsatisfactory. No
attempt was made to assess the performance of the other main lenders, (EEB, and IDB) during
implementation.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, Bank Performance must be considered unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The govemment appears to have been fully committed to the sector-restructuring plan that it endorsed in its
Letter of Sector Development Policy. The borrower relied on the Bank and the technical assistance
advisors to design the project's technical and the institutional reform parameters, but was unable to reach
agreement with the Bank on the appropriate transformer technology to use for two of the substations. Given
the above, the ICR judges the borrower's project preparation as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was highly unsatisfactory. The Government was unwilling
or unable to implement the sector-restructuring program that had been agreed with the Bank, even as it
continued to express concem at the sector's poor performance. It was also unwilling to implement the
tariff increases.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
EdL's implementation performance was highly unsatisfactory.  EdL was unable to meet its financial
and fiduciary responsibilities. It failed to maintain adequate records in a manner adequate for the
- 17 -



international auditors to provide a clean Audit, without major exceptions. It was unable to act on the
recommendations of the financial co-management consultants to introduce a modem, computerized
financial and management information system that is essential for resolving EdL's financial control
problems. Responsibility for procurement was diffused within EdL and between EdL and the MEW. As a
result EdL failed in its procurement efforts for the Dispatch Center (NCC) and for two important
substations.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower was highly unsatisfactory, primarily because it was unable to
meet its commitments to initiate improvements in EdL operations and financial management, and to
introduce legislation that would all for restructuring and privatizing the sector, as it had agreed under the
Action Plan.
8. Lessons Learned
General Lessons
Experience in many countries has shown that hard political decisions about power sector reforn and
tariff increases, particularly enabling legislation that meets the Bank's broad institutional reform goals,
need to be implemented before the Bank commits substantial funds for infiastructure upgrading.
When an integrated transmission system requires the completion of all its components to be fully
effective, consideration should be given to the inclusion of cross effectiveness conditions with the other
major lending institutions. This might have greatly increased the incentive for the Govermment to get all
elements of the financial package approved on schedule.
Where internal resources are essential for the successful implementation of the project, consideration
should be given to the creation and Government funding of a separate special account for this purpose
before the project becomes effective.
Technology issues need to be reviewed and resolved before Board presentation. This would have
avoided the long, drawn-out procurement of the Baalbeck and Saida transformer substations.
EIA reports need to be reviewed with an eye to ensuring that environmental issues that are raised are
also satisfactorily resolved. This is particularly important for environmental issues that impact people
living in the vicinity of the project.
A more detailed specification of appropriate standards for ambient noise and electric fields for
electricity transmission lines in the Bank's Environmental Guidelines might reduce future uncertainty in
this area.
Sustained attention needs to be paid to resolving systemic institutional financial accounting problems
when these problems impact the integrity of the financial auditing process.
A long and complex Borrower approval process for an ICB contract (after the Bank has provided its no
objection) greatly delays project implementation, and can raise questions about process accountability.
Consideration should be given to informing the implementing agency that the misprocurement would be
declared for any bid package that takes more than three months between the Bank's statement of no
objection to the evaluated most responsive bidder and the signing of the procurement contract.
- 18 -



Lessons specifically for Bank Lending in Lebanon
In Lebanon, consideration should be given to using CDR as the project procurement organization
whenever the procurement process of the implementing agency requires several layers of internal and
external formal approval.
An intemal PIU within the implementing agency, staffed adequately by the implementing agency, can
improve the internal coordination for project implementation, particularly if CDR is in charge of
procurement
The inclusion of monitorable institutional processes should be considered to help assure that the
implementing agency has access to the local financial resources required to carry out any land and/or
right of way expropniations needed for project implementation, and that the project's legal
environmental resettlement/expropriation obligations are being met.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
19



RizIJuBLIC Op LEBANON
Ml4IRYw Wi. ENwuw WATrU
Mr. Sam O'Brien-Kumi                             27/6/2002
SR. Inergy Economist
EnergySctor'Unit
Europe & Central Asia Region
The World Dank
1818s Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20M, USA.
Px + -1-202.477 1998
Subject: e Implemetatioat Completion Repxt (SCL4I2UA) - On a Loan in
the amount of USS 65. MUi1on to the Lebanese Republic for the
Power Sector Restrcuhdag & Transmisson Ixpnusion Ptojed
MEW Fax of 264=002 Additional Caniribtitlons
World Bank ICR Draft Submittal of 1/ =02
Dear Sam,
The Ministby of EnerW and Water hua reviewed the draft of the above
mentioned ICR report now 24274. As far as MEW, is concermed He report Is-
*ir in assessment of all the aspects of the project design through
implementation phases, and the ratings assigned are objecdves. Howvever, we
would like to propose that the rating of the Bormower Performance entitled
Govrntteuti hpipleiWUclatti Perfor:ttrnc" in Annex 6 be ihnnged from highly
unsatiisactory'lo satisfactory
We would like also toadvise you that MEW has no further comments on the
repot other than the changes we have suggested to be made in the pages that
we have transmitted to you earlier today by telefax from the OtlIc of the
Minister.
We thank you once again for your assistance and are looking forward to be
neeting wlth you soon in Beirut preferaby on July the 9* mstead of the
I(0=0za2.
Baroudi
cc: * HKtC MK A    ydn-Mft&ter Mhdftofnrqvodwater
-~M Mor hanmed Bmnouh - Worl Dank;- Besidenl Hion -Beirut
In addition to the above, MEW proposed that the following be added to the text " MEW/EDL did not
follow seriously the change of fuel procurement from gas oil to natural gas. This is mainly for the new
combined cycle power plants at Zahrani and Beddawi, which in turn was a major burden for EDLIMoF."
-20-



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Available
(c) Other partners (NGOs/prtvate sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of pertinent project documents can be found in Annex 7.
As required under the Intensive Learning ICR procedures, a stakeholders workshop was held in Beirut on
May 02, 2002. The objective, agenda and results of the meeting, as well as a list of participants are
included in Annex 9. The main results of the workshop are reflected at various places in this document.
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
|  .  IndlcatQrlMix                - ,  ,  i   ProJected.ln last PSR  ;    .ActuallLatest Esimate       ,
Generation under private management (% of 40                                    Achieved
MW Installed)
Distbuton under private management (only  60                                     15
meter reading & collections
Submit draft lectricIty Law to          NA                                       March 2002
Parliament
Self-financing ratio (%)                30                                       NA
Total electricity osses (%)             20                                       47
Accounts receivable days                90                                       450
Average Revenue /kWh sold Uscents/kWh) 10.1                                      8.8
Output Indicators:
Indlcatbr bilx      P,,,                 ectedJnlast           .             Actual4latastEstimatl:
Improve quantity, qualty and reliability of  NA                                  Increased outages, poor quality of service
power delivery to final consumers                                                delivery to final consumers
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)  ._._.
AppraisaI.   AtII/tuaates,t .   Percentage of
,Estimt         EsiiO~Apralisal-
Project Cost By Comp'onen.t'           US$inrillionh.. US$rmillion' . _____6n . . _
Transmission Lines                                    63.00           83.23            132
Underground Cables                                   113.00          106.27             94
Substations                                          229.00          188.54             82
Technical Assistance                                   6.00           13.00            217
Total Baseline Cost                                  411.00          391.04
Price Contingencies                                  34.00           15.75             46
Total Project Costs             445.00         406.79
Interest during construction   41.00          39.32           96.00
Total Financing Required             486.00          446.11
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Estimate)
US$ millions equivalent
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category
ICB       NCB        OTHER     N.B.F      Total
Underground Cables              115       0.0       0.0        6.7       121.7
(45.8)    (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (45.8)
Substations                    216.0      0.0       0.0        216.0     216.0
(0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
Transmission Lines             0.0        0.0       0.0        95.3      95.3
(0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)
Terchnical Assistance           13.0                                     13.0
(6.0)                                     (6.0)
RFP, QCBS method
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percenta   6of `jpras-li
Ccmponent             Appraisal Ectimate_ Actua ateEstia-te.,.
._._,,_._________,_. .Bank       Govt     CoF.      Ba,k, ,ovt        . CF    'Ilia!k . Goit  CoF.,
Underground Cables                                  45.70              76.00
Substations                                                   20.00   216.00
Transmission Lines                                            40.00    95.30
Technical Assistance    6.20               5.00     8.20               5.00    132.3         100.0
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not available (see para. 4.3).
-24-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persops and Specialty           Performanvc Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.),  Implementation Development
MonthfYear    Count           Specialty                    -Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1994-Dec.              1    Power System Specialist
1995
1   Environmentalist
I   Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
July 29, 1996               1    Power system Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
1   Environmentalist
I   Economist
I   Power Engineer
Supervision
January 97                   5   Power system Specialist,           S            S
Procurement Officer,
Disbursement Officer,
Economist, Financial
Analyst
June 97                      2   Power System Specialist,           S            S
Economist
October 97                   2   Power System Specialist,          U             S
Financial Analyst
June 98                      3   Power System Specialist,          U             U
Financial Analyst, Energy Sector
Leader
November 98                  1   Power System Specialist,           U            U
Economist, Gas Specialist
Febniary 99                  3   Energy Sector Manager,             U            U
Economist, Financial Analyst
May 99                       4   Energy Sector Manager,             U            U
Economist, Financial Analyst,
Financial Management Specialist
November 99 -                3   Energy Sector Manager,             U            U
Mid-term Review                  Economist, Financial
Management Specialist
June 00                      3   Energy Sector Manager,             U            U
Economist, Financial
Management Specialist
January 01                   4   Energy Sector Manager,
Economist, Financial Analyst,
Financial Management Specialist
April 01                     4   Energy Sector Manager,             U            U
Economist Sector Refor
Consultants (2)
U             U
- 25 -



ICR
April 02                    3    Energy Consultant,                U             U
Economist, Power Engineer
(Consultant)
June 02                     3    Energy Consultant, Financial
Management Specialist,
Economist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActuilLatest Estinate.
No. Staff weeks.             US$ 000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                            458,543
Supervision                                                      748,016
ICR                                                               42,019
Total                                                           1,248,578
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N        * NA
O Sector Policies                    0 H O SU OM 0 N 0 NA
Oi Physical                          O H OSUOM ON O NA
I Financial                          OH OSUOM ON          O NA
O Institutional Development          O H O SU O M O N 0 NA
L Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Ol Gender                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
l Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
El Public sector management          O H OSUOM       * N  O NA
L Other (Please specify)             OH OSUOM ON          * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
D Lending                                         OHS OS OCU *HU
O Supervision                                     OHS OS       * u   O HU
O Overall                                         OHS OS       O u   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
El Preparation                                    OHS OS       O u   O HU
El Government implementation performance          O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance              OHS OS       O U   * HU
El Overall                                        OHS OS       O u   * HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents and information pertaining to the Power Sector Restructuring and Transmission
Expansion Project are available:
*   Memorandum of the President
*   Loan Agreement
*   Project Agreement
*   Indemnity Agreement
*   Back-to-office Reports
*   Project Supervision Reports
*   Various Progress Reports
*   Minutes of Meeting of Stakeholders Workshop in Beirut
*   Report of Survey of Lan Owners for the acquisition of rights-of-way, and survey of identifiable
beneficiaries
*   Environment Impact Assessment
*   Reports of the Financial Co-management Team
*   Reports of Audit of EdL's Financial Statements.
- 29 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
As part of the Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report, two surveys were carried out in April
2002. The surveys sought to better understand the reasons for the difficulties and delays in the acquisition
of the rights-of-way for the construction of the transmission lines, and substations, which was a major
cause of delays in the implementation of the project; and to better understand the impacts of the project on
the economy. Understanding the issues of land acquisition for the rights-of-way was considered important
for lessons to be learned for future Bank infrastructure projects. Because of the nature of the project, the
usual beneficiary survey of implementation agencies, and individuals whose quality of life may have been
impacted positively or negatively was not possible, and necessary for understanding the issues that plagued
the implementation of the project.
The first survey, or "Questionnaire," was targeted at Land-owners from whom land was to be acquired for
the construction of rights-of-way. the second survey, " Beneficiary Survey" was targeted at the electricity
consuming business community whose activities have been impacted indirectly by the project due to
inadequate and poor quality electricity supply.
About 12 separate surveys covering 6 individual landowners, 2 municipal officials, whose villages/towns
and geographical boundaries were subject to land acquisition, a principal of a school where an electric
pylon was erected near students play ground; an ex-member of an official "First Instance Ex-
appropriations Committee; an ex-member of an " Official Appeal Ex-appropriations Committee; and a
member of Parliament who received specific complaints against land acquisition from his constituency.
The questionnaire for the survey included the following:
Type of ex-appropriation - land acquisition for construction of main substations or pylons erection
and/or rights of way;
*      full or partial land acquisition or the parcel of land;
*      ex-appropriation impacts
*      duration of time of 'putting land on hold' remaining unappropriated part, adjoining parcels, urban
development, health and environmental impacts, land values;
*      compensation decisions- undervalue, over-value, fair value, paid on time, delayed payments, taking
of possession before or after payment;
*      legal action(s) taken, including appeals, group demonstrations, public complaints to the media, and
parliamentarians;
*      steps in the sale of land, and " air/underground" rights to EDL for transmission lines and cables;
*      did landowner actually sold land, or land use right to EDL;
*      If yes to sell land, has EDL built transmission line?
*      If no, was the process used to reach a sales price clear and well understood to the parties;
*      If not how far did the negotiations process go, and reasons for process to stop;
*      If not why did the sale not occur,
*      Under what conditions would land-owner be willing to sell.
Five. surveys were conducted in the second case. they covered two industrialists; a Board Member of the
Industrialists Association; a manager of a major hospital; a large commercial/residential electricity user;
and two average electricity consumers.
The results of the surveys were discussed, together with other issues of implementation at a half day
workshop of the stakeholders in Beirut on May 02, 2002. Summary report on the workshop is provided in
- 30 -



Attachment -the detailed report is provided in the " List of Supporting Documents (Amnex 7) . Below are
the results and recommendations of the surveys.
Survey of Landowners
Findiogs:
*      All the surveyed land-owners, without exception, were against ex-appropriation
*      the electricity type ex-appropriation was qualified as the worst kind of land acquisition because of:
(i) reduction in real estate value; (ii) perceived health impacts- cancer link, and leukemia in
children issues becoming of great concern, psychological impacts of living under high voltage
over-head lines;
*      Compensation amounts contested;
*      Funds not secured timely;
*      Ex-appropriation law was not strictly implemented;
*      Illegal temporary land take-over by EdL;
*      Delays resulting in claims by contractors;
*      A number of landowners still remain unpaid, although land has been taken from them by EdL. In
same village some got paid others were not;
*      Estimates of land values varied considerably even for same size plots in same locations;
*      EdL abstained from appeals, even when there was reason to do so.
Recommendations
*      EdL  should carry out a public awareness campaign of the perceived health hazards of high
voltage overhead power transmission lines to educate public of both the potential health impacts,
and safety aspects to alleviate concerns;
*      Environmental Impact Assessment of projects of this nature should include sociological and
psychological impacts;
*      the directives and stipulations of the ex-appropriations law should be strictly implemented;
*      Ensure that the ex-appropriations decrees are received on time by the Real Estate Registry and
ex-appropriation signs are duly registered;
*      Secure before hand the funds needed for land acquisition process, and deposited into a special fund
before site takeover, and chronological orders of payment should be honored;
*      decisions of the First Instance Ex-appropriations Committee should be reviewed for discrepancies,
and appeals should be resorted to by EdL in questionable cases.
Survey of Power Consuming Business Community
Findings
*      Planned outage programs not well coordinated and implemented, resulting in harmful interruptions
in the production process/production activities;
*      EdL should endeavor to maintain reliable supply for 6-8 hours per day
*      Standby generation remain a necessity, even for residential users;
*      Voltage drops, and frequency oscillations cause major damage to industrial plant and machinery
*      Most business favor self generation to EdL supply, and find self-generation cost effective in the
circumstances.
- 31 -



Conclusions
*      With the current poor state of electricity supply, most major consumers believe that the public
sector has fmiled, and has little hope of improving
*      Privatization, with no monopoly powers, and proper regulation is the solution;
*      EdL must improve efficiency in all areas of operation;
*      EdL must develop a culture of Buyer-Seller relationship with its customers;
*      Tariffs must be studied and adjusted to reflect cost of service.
- 32 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
- 33 -



EDL/Government Workshop
on
The Power Sector Restructuring and Transmission System Project
Purpose: In view of the significant implementation difficulties encountered, which led to the failure of the
project to meet its development objectives, a workshop was held with the view to better'understanding the
causes of the problems, and the lessons that could be learned for future operations in the energy and
infrastructure sectors. The workshop was wel attended by representatives of the all the' main project
stakeholders comprising: the Ministry of Energy and Water, the Ministry of Finance, the Council for
Developmet and Reconstruction, and Electricite' du Liban. The deliberations were chaired by Mr. Kamal
Hayek, the Director General of EdL and Chairman of the EdL Board of Adminstration. The detailed list
of participants is provided in the ICR files.
The Agenda: The agenda covered the following:
* Purpose of the Workshop
* Project background, design and quality at entry, implementatio status
* Implementation Performance, monitoring indicators, and results of appraisal expectations, and actuals
* Implementation Problems - what were the causes?
* EdL Operational Performance- issues of losses, arrears
* Issues of Land Acquisition for Rights-of-way. Presentation of survey results
*   EdL and MEW Implementation Performance
* Bank Performance
* Lessons for the Future.
Workshop Format: The format was based on a participatory approach. Power-point presentations were
made on the various subjects by the EdL team and the Bank team. These were followed by open and frank
discussions by the participants of issues and recommendations. Specific focus was given to issues of
procurement,' on the successes of CDR and the failures of EdL to even award a single contract, in the
discussions of implementation problems, and land acquisition for the rights -of -way.
Surveys:  Since land acquision for rights-of-way was a major constraint to implementation of the
transmission component of the Project, a survey was conducted to identify why the difficulties arose, and
what could be done to avert occurence in the future. A survey of identifiable consumer groups was also
undertaken to assess consumer attitudes towards situation of inadequate and unreliable electricity supply,
and impacts on their activities. The findings and recommendations of the these surveys were discussed
extensively by the participantswere discussed extensively
Problems with Land Acquisition & Rights of Way
* Lack of funds for payments to landowners
Expropriation law stipulates payments to be made before site is occupied.
Most work was done before compensation payments were made.
When landowners blocked the sites, EdL could not legally enforce the expropriation.
Many cases remain unsolved and transmission system not completed.
* Problems with Expropriation Process
Before land use to start, payment should be deposited at the treasury and the informed.
- 34 -



In many cases EdL has promised payments but has not yet paid.
If not paid within six months, legal interest becomes due, but EdL has not been paying interest.
If the delay exceeds two years, the owner can request an updated valuation, which could be
expensive for EdL.
In many cases, EdL has used the expediency of temporary take-over for which payment is not
necessary and which only requires a special permit It is not legal to use it for activities requiring
permanent expropriation.
The unusual size and scope of the 220 KV network project was bound to meet logistic, financial
and implementation problems.
EdL's expropriation requirement overloaded the regional FIC committees, which have to handle all
expropriation files in their specific regions.
*   An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study of the project was carried out and approved by the
WB. Its conclusions were:
"The whole route has been chosen well and considers economic and ecological aspects.
It can be built without significant adverse effects on land use locally and regionally.
The major concern is the potential biological effects of electric and magnetic fields.
The Federal German Office for Protection against Radiation, recommends that dwellings should be
at least 60-80 meters away from HV transmission lines.
At this distance, the possibility of damage to health due to electromagnetic fields can be excluded.
Lebanon law has no minimum distance requirements.
The right of way extends only 10 meters (horizontally) from the line.
The transmission line goes directly over some residential housing.
National law requires only a five meter vertical distance between the roof and the line.
At this distance there is considerable noise and potentially high levels of electro-magnetic
radiation"
General issues:
* Nearly all the interviewed landowners were somewhat aware of the possible health hazards created by
the passage of high voltage lines.
* Landowners complained about the whizzing sounds emanating from lines and pylons isolators.
* Psychological impacts dominated. No one accepts to live under an overhead line.
* Many large landowners, who could afford lawyers contested award amounts.
* Great resistance and discontent was caused by EdL's failure make payments before demanding access
to,land.
*   EdL rsorted at times to illegal "temporary" takeovers to minimize delays and resulting damages claim
by contractors.
Particular issues:
*   Delays in registration of expropriation information in the Real Estate Registry resulted in houses being
built under right of way.
*   Many landowners are still unpaid, and in the same village, some got paid others did not
* Price valuations varied considerably, causing resentment and mistrust of system. Some FIC committees
were accused of bias and deliberate favoritism.
EdL and the Government should.
*   Establish reasonable safe distance regulations.
* Reconcile variations between environmental Impact Assessments recommendations and national
regulations.
- 35 -



* Undertake an awareness campaign to explain safe distance regulations.
*   Take active measures to ensure that the expropriation decrees are widely publicized locally, and
registered in the Real Estate Registry in a timely fashion.
*   Secure the funds needed for the land acquisition process before contractors are mobilized.
*   When delays occur honor chronological orders of payment
*   Examine discrepancies in compensation and resort to Appeals, in questionable cases.
Reactions of the Power Consuming Business communitv
*   Planned outages programs are not well implemented, causing a hamfiul interruption in the production
activities.
*   Supply duration should not be less than 6-8 hours.
*   Voltage drop and frequency oscillation problems damage machinery.
* There is a general consensus that the KWh cost generated by standalone generators is cheaper than the
network cost.
*   According to the LAI President, many large industrialists have severed relations with EdL and more are
likely to follow suit.
* They are most concerned about high quality service,
* They object to having paying more than neighbors when EdL's non-technical losses are so high.
*   They find it cheaper to use stand alone generators and hold the electric network for standby.
* They think that when the new electricity law is passed, EdL should purchase electricity from large
stand alone generators during peak demand times to reduce the cost of peak electricity.
*   With the recurrent electricity cuts, unreliable programmed supply, high tariffs compared to neighboring
countries, EdL financial deficit, consumers believe that the Public sector has failed and has little hope
to improving.
Floor was then opened for discussion of the issues raised.
There was little disagreement with the issues raised by the consultant. There was particular concern that
EDL could do nothing about the problem of not having the funds for expropriation, and that they were
doing the best they could to implement the transmission expansion program under particularly difficult
conditions.
It was pointed out, however, that Law 403, which approved the World Bank loan, included a provision of
100 billion lira for payment of land, but the money was obtained, either because it was never asked for or
because it was never allocated from the government.
The workshoR agreed on the fol'owing matters:
*   Physical components are only 70% completed and some of the substations not contracted. This has
created a serious problem for EDL
*   Delays: project scope was very large and overloaded the institutional capabilities of the expropriation
committees. The Bank did not look at the institutional capabilities of these institutions.
* It would have been useful if EdL had followed up to check that the land registries had actually put the
expropriation information on each land plot. It is the landowners responsibility to get information
when he decides to build, but that information should be readily available.
Discussion then turned to the project's physical implementation issues.
- 36 -



*   The project needed more coordinated management from a PMU.
*   A PMU was created in EdL late in the project cycle, and when assigned it was not given authority to
take decisions and actions. It Still had to go through General Director, the Board and Ministry One
reason was that originally CDR was to do the bidding process and contract signing, so it was thought
that a PMU was not necessary. But it was still needed to supervise the coordination of the program.
*   It was recommended that a PMU should have been assigned in EdL at the beginuiing of the project as
the coordinating technical unit for the project.
*   All of the procurement delays arose when EdL was in charge of the procurement process.
* One project (NCC) was cancelled by bank for misprocurement, and two other projects (substations)
have still not have contracts signed.
*   For Seiden, there were four years without resolving the procurement problem. It was a good example
of the inability of EdL to get procurement decisions through its multiple decision-making bodies.
*   Decision making was too diffused, requiring the sequential approval of the GD, the Board, and the
Ministry. CDR did not have the same problems because it could make all decisions in house.
* There was general consensus that CDR should formally be in charge of all procurement.
*   CDR should issues tender documents and prequalification, form short list, etc, with technical support
from EdL. Use EdL to be the technical consultants. Contract supervised by EdL, but all procurement
decisions made by CDR and contracts signed by CDRP
*   The Bank failed to look closely at substation technologies during appraisal, and then decided after the
first bids came that it had made a mistake and they should use the cheaper open system. EdL now
believes that this lower cost system should have been used for all the substations outside Beirut, as a
principle, at appraisal.
*   Some of those present agreed that the problem on procurement in EdL was that there is too much
political meddling in the process.
Discussion ttuned to the discussion of the financial and institutional reform issues within EDL.
*   On the question of improving EdL financing, it was pointed out that EdL was in a financial bind.
*   The Government allows so many consumers to not pay for electricity, and mnaldng EdL responsible for
these subsidies,
* Concessions are getting electricity lower than the cost of electricity from Syria. So how can EdL
support more concessions. Situation cannot continue where concessions get electricity at a lower cost
than the cost of fuel.
It was Rointed out that EdL should not be blamed for all the problems.
*   They had 113 martyrs killed during the war and when power stations were bombed by Israel.
*   They should have been allowed to hire more staff and to pay them better, like any outside the
institution.
* The generation plants were never given the supervising consultants that they needed to implement their
maintenance programs
*   The Finance Department was not given the 10 qualified staff that they needed to implement the
accounting reforms recommended by the co-management consultants.
The WoikshoR consensus was that the Bank should share some of the blame for proiect failure.
*   Last year's CPPR, everyone was mobilized to change things drastically, but for the EDL project the
Bank had a very soft approach . This was the only project where the Bank did not take a hard line. No
- 37 -



measures were taken, possibly because it was a disbursing loan. It had a positive lag all along.
*   The Bank asked for results, without defining the tools and procedures to get to the results. What was
needed was a time schedule for the internal steps that needed to be taken to begin to obtain these results
(such as those needed to improve financial reporting).
*   Service standards were not observed, on response to procurement issues. This was mentioned in last
year's CPPR.
*   The Bank did little to support the need for financial staff. Never communicated the importance of this
activity to the government This issue was discussed only in informal setting, never formal discussion
with senior management or board.
*   The Bank did not raise the funding for land appropriation issue with the Government
*   CDR suggested that Bank should have insisted that the entire financial package be approved by
Parliament before the bank loan became effective (or before the first loan disbursement), which would
have put more pressure on the Government to get it all approved. This should be done for all projects
where the benefits can flow only after the entire project is completed.
*   Bank's problem is that they have been too kind they said that they at risk, and they did nothing.
*   Maybe the Bank should have used some of technical assistance money to hire more people in the
finance department.
*   Tender documents for co mgmnt were prepared by the World Bank, but they were not complete. Either
outsource or hire people to introduce a modem it system. Tender documents were not clear.
* In 1998, WB decided that instead of issuing tender documents for privafization of generation and
distribution, EdL should hire services for restructuring, as it was planned in the beginning. The reason
was that it believed that any action would require change in the Energy Law, and this was not likely in
the near future. But the Bank focused too much on the Law. Much could have been done even without
change in the Law. EdL Subcontracted distribution to private companies for 18 regions and billings
went up to 90%. The board stopped the application in Beirut.
*   WB did not always respond in a timely fashion. Statements of no-objection took too long to be given
by the Bank A case in point is the RFP for insurance studies..
*   Bank should have followed up with put more pressure on government decision makers and red flag
inconsistent decision. Bank must be more attuned to political situation and should meet with the
decision makers who are holding up actions, be it the Ministry or Parliament. Need to be more forceful
in insisting that Government gets its the act together.
*   The Bank should have insisted that the subsidies to south were open transparent subsidies, not hidden
subsidies through EdL.
*   Financial co-mgmt was a waste because the board did not take any action on the reports that were
issued, and the Bank did not follow up in its supervision with the Board to push them to discuss it and
make decisions, whatever the decisions might be.
On the other hand.
*   The MEW representative pointed out that EdL does not have a Corporate Business Action Plan. So
what we want to do. With no corporate plan there is no consistency in strategy. Should the Bank have
insisted that such a plan be approved by EdL Board before the project could be implemented?
*   The Bank believed that the MEW should be in charge of the restructuring process, not EdL.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 10. The Implementation Action Plan
THE ORIGINAL ACTION PLAN
Date                   Action
July 1996              Conversion of EDL's old debt to equity
September 1996         Kadisha concession restored
Beddawi & Zahrani
October-November 1996   Finalization of the management contract (O&M) for Beddawi & Zahrani
with the supplier for a period ending no later than three months after the
taling over of the combined cycle
I-Prequalification
September-October 1996  Finalization of the prequalification documents of affermage contract for
Beddawi & Zahrani power plants. Approval by the board of directors of
EDL
October-December 1996   Tender for the prequalification of contractors for affermage contract for
Beddawi & Zahrani power plants
January 1997            Notifying the results of the prequalification tender
2 -Tender
December 1996           Finalization of the tender document of affermage contract for Beddawi
& Zahrani power plants. Approval   by the Board of EDL
January-March 1997      Tender for operating Beddawi & Zahrani power plants under affermage
contract
April 1997              Notifying the results of the tender of affennage contract for Beddawi &
Zahrani power plants
July 1997               Coming into force of the preliminary period of the affermage contract
for Zahrani power plants
August 1997             Coming into force of the preliminary period of the affermage for
Beddawi power plants
October 1998            Coming into force of the affermage contract for Zahrani power plants
December 1998           Coming into force of the affermage contract for Beddawi power plants
according to the current schedule of the work progress of the two power
plants
Zouk & Jieh
I-Prequalification
August 1996             Finalization of the prequalification bidding document of management contract
- 39 -



(O&M) for Zouk & Jieh power plants. Approval by the board of Directors of
EDL
September-October 1996  Tender for the prequalification of contractors for management contract
(O&M) for Zouk & Jieh power plants
November 1996           Notifying the results of the prequalification tender
2 -Tender
August-October 1996     Finalization of the tender document - management contract (O&M) - for Jieh
& Zouk power plants
November 1996 - January 1997Tender for operating Zouk & Jieh under management contract (O&M)
February 1997           Notifying the results of the tender of management contract (O&M) for Jieh &
Zouk power plants
April 1997              Coming into force of management contract (O&M) - for Jieh & Zouk
power plants
Baalbeck & Tyre
1- Prequalification
August 1996             Finalization of the prequalification documents of management contract
(O&M) for Baalbeck & Tyre power plants. Approval by the Board of
Directors of EDL
September - October 1996  Tender for the prequalification of contractors for management contract
(O&M) for Tyre & Baalbeck power plants
November 1996           Notifying the results of the prequalification tender
2- Tender
August - October 1996   Finalization of the tender document - management contract (O&M) - for
Tyre & Baalbeck power plants
January - March 1997    Tender for operating Tyre & Baalbeck power plants under management
contract (O&M)
April 1997              Notifying the results of the tender of management contract (O&M) for
Tyre & Baalbeck power plants
June 1997               Coming into force of management contract (0&M) - for Tyre &
Baalbeck
power plants
National Control Center
l-Prequalifcation
September 1996          Finalization of the prequalification documents. Approval by the Board of
Directors of EDL - World Bank No Objection delivered
September - October 1996 Tender for the prequalification of contractors
December 1996           Notifying the results of the prequalification tender
2 -Tender
-40 -



August - October 1996         Finalization of the tender documents
November 1996           Approval of the documents by the World Bank
December 1996 - March 1997    Tender for the supply & erection of the NCC
April - May 1997        Evaluation of the bids - World Bank No Objection required
July 1997               Contract award
October 1997                  Coming into force of the contract for the supply & erection of the
NCC
Environmental Upgrading
l-Prequalification
February 1996           Finalization of the prequalification documents. Approval by the Board of
Directors of EDL -
September 1996         New tender for the prequalification of contractors
November 1996           Notifying the results of the prequalification tender
Zouk Power Plant - Desulfuration system
2 -Tender
August - November 1996        Finalization of the tender documents
November 1996           Approval of the documents by the Board of Directors of EDL
November 1996 - February 1997  Tender for the supply & erection of the system
March -April 1997       Evaluation of the bids
May 1997                Contract award
June 1997               Coming into force of the contract for the supply & erection of the system
Jieh & Hreiche Power Plant
1- Flue gas monitoring
August 1996             Preparation of the tender documents for Flue gas monitoring
September 1996         Approval of tender documents
October 1996                  Tendering period
November 1996           Evaluation of tenders
December 1996           Contract award
January 1997                  Coming into force of the monitoring contract
October - December 1996  New Master Plan for Jieh Power Plant
2 -Desulfuration system
December 1996 - January 1997  Preparation of the tender documents. Approval by the Board of
Directors of EDL
February - April 1997         Tendering period
May 1997               Evaluation of the bids
June 1997              Award of the contracts
-41 -



July 1997               Coming into force of the contracts
Expansion of the
transmission system
September 1996          Signature of most of the commercial contracts
December 1996           Coming into force of the contracts
October 1999            Last taking over certificate
Billing & collection
October-November 1996   Finalization of contracting out meter reading & collection to private operators
in all EDL's sectors
Distribution **
I-Prequalification
August - September 1997  Finalization of the prequalification documents for privatizing the
distribution. Approval by the Board of Directors of EDL
October - December 1997  Tender for the prequalification of contractors for privatizing the
distribution
January 1998            Notifying the results of the prequalification tender
2 -Tender
October - January 1998  Finalization of the tender document for privatizing the distribution.
Approval by the Board of Directors of EDL
January - April 1998    Tender for privatizing the distribution
June 1998               Notifying the results of the tender
July 1998               Award of the distribution concessions
October 1998            Coming into force of the concessions
**the privatization of distribution is linked to the new electricity law in January 1998.
Tariffs
October 1996            Implementation of the rehabilitation surcharge according to EDL's
decision in March 1996
March 1997              Implementation of the increase of LL1O/k-Wh for all consumers
according to EDL's decision in March 1996
January - March 1998    Revision clause linking tariffs to fuel fluctuation and an average overall
tariff increase of not less than 11%
March 1999              New Tariffs following completion of new tariff study
March 1999              Average overall tariff increase of not less than 11%
March 2000              Tariff increase so as to achieve financial solvency (total revenues equivalent to
-42 -



not less than the sum of its total cash operating expenses and interest and other
charges on debt).
Finance
January 1997            Financial co-management of EDL
January 2000            Solvency of EDL cash flow - operating costs + debt services
Legal aspects
March 1998              Coming into force of the new Electricity Law
-43-



LEBANESE REUWPC
8ECrORAL DIVELO?MET ROUCY VOR T   KLECThICITY SECTOR
UJDATR ACTIONIAN'
XNEASIVE LEANING ICR
F'umadsil Restructuring
.Ago-           wwW&-EDLs*Mdfc*b
AM 19P7             FkadUm stC l ad i&Lt Mu
_p=y 109            Se(dvr eDEL VA Iw - .puas wm c *+akv1
Ila aspects
c*a_                Fb   ft*rGMkt 1l
Mmb 9m              Cog tm An eCU, vow Mec*hIj Law
to Kadiahak COaCemloiS
Nobw 1997?          JtmB m..o.as Mb5 KeOA. SA
Beddasl & Zabrani Combined Cycle*owr Station (435 MW each)
1*199"? -Sa 200 MOMu.smm       ma(Ob.O Ar SeMawwI & Ealguu u4ta do apll Or 3
moodcs (dwEto hk mmn.eam .1330kV Mm*
J .JWquavJwlOe
2~p~m m1999  Pbndtiuhe of dw pou_ode domm.m of aflumaV canwd fr
ut4Wv A epw ibm Ap9itu by tof-DowdtoffEawUofUDL
199       TaW Ibr _e       at comw  SW 'm...   kw
lamsm 20W9          tdlhdbthetl r_ dfOwmqaIIIdo ea
2^r ~ ~ ~   ~  ~~~~b
DimEMb 19MO          FiAnadeba or dm "Wu doempt of Wafow. mnm, Ar Se
Zprwjpowrpl_m. Appvdaby amaw .101
ImyAxh Um           Tad. Ar I od_ 1W &  Zdi & m pI  - uuAr allumap
AjhUl 2000           "Od4t th tmeOw    a5nummp .u e r vsiwi & akd_t
kw="O               coming ho am. of *a alknn., mowotlmar US6da1 a ZduamI peow
.-.
This lbmupd. uM eD, MER. 1     i4 IDRD- q 35,1997 ib
- 44 -



41             a   ~   ~~~~ V 
If'a l~ ~      I)    .il l 'di
03j3 Il!3133h.Ert3 di,13 t313 ,!03 l131113~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1 II
X A      o.I   -w e~1    4jg  I h



- 9t -
~j.o e,r ooq 'uns - cm #wur
anpJo"_A       430l
JO~~~~~~~~~~~~_ UUfJUI  U  U3@  U3JSMid41oWnl
4  issmmwaaa  t.miAnav
mpmj@ UHJWPA3  4*s O-"mUf
_CPSd3O3L    4'w  * olh
p-DuW            Oflw
muh_j. ups iupaqap..      DM3 un
inpmj.png.su'u~  pjaaay   WI  r
iusw~pmp-mi.ip  usuul  utm
wgp,g O*'D%IJ 01'        PPN
~~u.jd^% aadumq m  O  * l  as %3qs  e OW  W  pin
_  u~~~ip AUSpnq     sum3d      L6s _  aqi1 3661
({oduq 91ri) "o I'J#E o w; UOW4W 4Pq4



Development of 120 IV Tansmisuion System
I-rManha IL94 Led4* Saurhrn4 Zaboarowea%l   Amm_e,"4S
012h
omnylm4WMaom
3* ln            Compls uWt owv
3-jhMOAdve,p AMn Lda C& Dthl1OSs- Palm (73 ean 
aubii            SIauo
o~~~~~~wrw &  h-X*6
1*3997           Comu ha 1  ee -   m am
S4brndI.at hue La C p Dehm?oru (NWu (13*n
au~~~Img ~~inm zfnmr
soe              c.mtIsreu
4.Tr~im,a,nd.a aw ScfrqIsw (a.Ibdaanh mm
Wae ,.eutd CSUn, Lot 1: 8dinW AyugigqPlgg Ikeat Dqm*u, RAts Bqrouek.
e*P              8s_Or
I*swea to" nwI n C.umklome,M qat (7
s_yl OSfSIpueteemu
a* Cit"              it bmsom
Juy 0           sigm o ssa
s ,w             cof1: B "-" k
7T.bkbw.sw Let 1:-4 GUi ubft&t1.a "I,we.uu At%s *m*,ui n Ma
--ltsC I_ Sw          atmian
hb* 1i9          C    ZnmnI.af ma
Iwomsy2 RWCHnyldam of c.
8-SiaktafIw, Lo k-3 tonqaflPo I x eaft d  sat A d   (Ewa'eA Sewr cod&fggw
PI Ie-            Sipu do
hly. 3997        Co.dss be. danna
ANn 2a09         COmPulun.framl
94AhSUiqea,, Lot I: GU Wi aa6#a  (BsaUav), ndI 3 a'WMIewai fualM4u gZadbk *A"
km 1997          RlV_ s       mu
b 3? IC               Omam bas om    d
h3q2*10D         Cmnlrkdoe Jenst~irmuvun7
J4W_hltA-$ ZS1s b
@~~~~~~~~~~~4 -ie



Bliong & C.lkctioa
eampkud             New UIiptWOMi hr VwiWmV,(ZlOagasd.)hor W..
Sip_a.b.r1,90       Cuahig, Into Ibma feddkdpsl aI amma rA' m raft L ebgih hw
Distribution
re Fee
agwykud             emAIw -=54 amuaIzb ammda U16040udon sad laad'*m o td.sc-
phuwiUb hsauIm72%O IVtb oil obvLoI
u0nud               Muesk h dl   tM HVunmimn (6 KY WAd *bv
lit' 2996 - *S0m6mrw 1"m9I;7pb ,u1adS.lVt
jam 197'l -oft es $vF daumbi A,          No!a puosu - par u.k.. pboi.
ht   UAl            am 01 oi 4        dn*wtb Amaut2Id)s
290 WA hr .1 dd  5_mmaa l of elsy  W lK6 all auwaaw k
dw =wMba mubed --uim4 knml ' IN WV
My 197              Sea" ap di LV Yt*Wcigioup 4uf  hssd.dm.aeid 1sgW
^_untrlb   ~~~      ~~ Feb t - V  _Nk Lpo
-AlO-.J. 9S 8bmsadwbob auivhuaww_
-Juulyr91 :1
j.A*q=Qk.AP.Mtout
.2 -  .?a.d. 9: Sa
*Mlwl99 pwa - "aa           y       dw      a      s rety
JuI7 91w            combsI w tam or dwRcm
Tariffsw                                .~
Phadhuydia4 , q        khiGao. doa e  of O ( wapuese era,eg1aiJ ataWh,g sot WLbs ui
biuib. D.gb 1991    InlhgufleuNaa .            _um s_di muuduIp
2-Tendat pnL_                       s     n 
hAmW 1996h Iull I99  tAdtsons duo d$r ftlailtohe6o RIP.m Waok  V
Omoba 3918 -isa. ISIS  Slp~g or esa 4
Weea9 99 *-br 1999  Cak 1.thai.r .,w
P_q m   *J $91Sf    Iuiluatom1 of sees IIau   qldmtr wi wmo
~~~~~~~~~LI~Wias|Uked r__ eto ZD tL' deiwh Marh99
Jhuwy tA*eb 599     Re~i dhu Ihhaig wlIb to ha Ilamhc_m d ewua ovu!
hctso,Idu 11%
Mach299SAIp 70 rnuIWha.usdarIdsa 1 21
?QiI
-48 -



II
Ij
11
I1
I
ii
I
I



THE REVISED ACTION PLAN (November 1999)
1.     Physical Project Components
(i)    220 kV Underground Cables
*      Lot I               completion date March, 2000;
*      Lot 2               completion date end- July, 2000.
(ii)    220 kV Overhead Lines
*      Payment for the rights-of-way for the Zabrani- Aramoun: end- December, 1999.
*      Lot A               completion date December 30, 2000;
*      Lot B               completion date March 30, 2001;
*      Lot C               completion date end-January 2000.
(iii)   Substations
*      Lot 1 - Ras Beirut  Completion date June 30, 2001, halles: end- Decemberl999;
*      Lot 2               Completion April 2000;
*      Lot 3               Contract award by April 30, 2000, and initiation of work on
Bsalim. completion January 2002 (Baalbeck, Saida & Bsalim).
2.     Financial Performance Improvement
(i)    Electricity Losses
*      Loss reduction (technical & non-technical) targets: 40 percent in 2000; 35 percent in 2001; 25
percent in 2002; and 20 percent in 2003 of net available electricity;
*      Expand sub-contracting of meter reading and collection to cover all distribution: end-January,
2000;
*      Increase numbers of meter inspectors: end-February 2000;
*      Creation in EdL of a Consumer Management Unit: end-January 2000.
(ii)    Consumer co-management
*      Issue Notice of Expression of Interest: March 15, 2000;
*      Finalization of ToR and RFP: April 30, 2000;
*      Finalization of short-list and Invitation of Proposals: May 5, 2000;
*      Contract award: September 30, 2000.
(iii)  Accounts Receivable
*      Target: 7 months of revenues in 2001; and 5 months of revenues in 2002.
(iv)   Tariff Adjustment: 15 percent tariff increase in 2000 to offset fuel cost increase.
3.     Accounting & Financial Systems Modernization
*      Completion of a new chart of accounts: March 30, 2000;
*      Completion of accounting policies and procedures, new organization chart and job descriptions:
end-April 2000;
*      Recruitment of at least 10 new accounting and finance staff. April 30, 2000;
- 50 -



*      Complete modermization of accounting & financial management system: June 30, 2001.
(i)     Financial Audits
*      Submission to World Bank of Audit 1998 financial statements of EdL- April 30, 2000;
*      Submission to World Bank of audit report on the Special Accounts for the guaranteed bond issue
for 1998: March 30, 2000.
4.     Institutional Development Component- Power Sector Reform
(i)    Electricity Law
*      Submission of draft to World Bank for comments: January 15, 2000;
*      Revised draft incorporating Bank comments submitted Cabinet: March 28, 2000;
*      Final revised draft submitted to Parliament: April 30, 2000.
(ii)   Distribution Area Concession
*      Pre-qualification of consulting firms : May 30, 2000;
*      Completion of ToR and RFP: June 30, 2000;
*      Appointment of consultant/financial advisor: September 15, 2000;
*      Further processes to follow to award of concession to strategic investor.
(iii)  Sector Restructuring and Privatization
*      Establishment of committee for management of restructuring: April 30, 2000;
*      Finalization of ToR and RFP: March 30, 2000;
*      Issue of request for expression of interest: February 28, 2000;
*      Finalization of short list of firms: March 30, 2000;
*      Issue of RFP to firms: April 30, 2000;
*      Appointment of consultants: September, 2000.
(iv)  Electricity Pricing
Exchange of views with the Bank on the tariff study recommendations: June 30, 2000;
Introduction of new economic-based tariff structure: September 30, 2000.
(v)   O&M Contract for Dier- Amar (Beddawi) & Zahrani
*      Issue of Bidding Documents: November 23, 1999;
*      Bidders' conference: December 13, 1999;
*      Submission of Bids: January 20, 2000;
*      Contract award: May 30, 2000;
(vi)  Risk Assessment (Insurance) Studv
*      To be completed September 30, 2001.
- 51 -



Additional Annex 11: Borrower/Implementing Agency's Contribution to the ICR
-52-



ELECTRICITE DU LIBAN
(EDL)
EDL's CONTRIBUTION TO TE IME LEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT ON A LOAN FROM THE WORLD BANK
IN THE AMOUNT OF
US$ 65 MILLION TO THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC FOR
THE POWER SECTOR RESIRUCTURING AND TRANSISSION
EXPANSION PROJECT
PREPARED BY:  Engineer Nibli BAZZI
EDL's Coordinator wItb the Wornk
Staudia Dltetorate- EDL ;
9FEV SION   Da 0=           9 OF PAGE fINCLUDING  GE 
PACG I OF 15
EDL's CONlIBtKTION TO THE IMPLLMENTATION COMIPLETON REPORT
-53 -



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
In this report the following words and expmsions have the moanw heeby
assigped to them:
"AFESDM   Arab Fund for Econoc and Social Development
"Borrower' The Government of Ibanon
CDR" Councl for Development and Reconstruction.
"COM" Council of Ministers
"DACCPP" Deir Am    Combined Cycle Power Plant
"DSP Decison Systm Intermaonal
'B       EDL Board of Administration
IEDF" Electricite' de France
"EAw Envomental Impact Assessment
"ETIB European lvesmnent Bank.
"GOL" tbe Govemnmert Of Lebanon.
"   1RD  International Bank for Reconstucdon and Developmen
-IDBAUIF" Islamic Development Bankl Unit Investment Fund
"LNO" Liquid Naturl Gas.
"ILSDP" Letter of Sector Developmet Policy.
"MC" Mangment Contractor
"MEW" Ministry of Energy and Water
"MOF" Ministry of Finance.
"NO" Natual Ga
6RC" Restructuring Conultat
"SAR" the Staff Appraisal Report prepared by the WB.
"SPt Strtogic Partner
"WB" World Ban.
'ZACCPP- Zabuani Combined Cycle Power Plant
PAGE2OF 15
lULL CONTRIDnTIoN 0 THIE ml.EMLNTATION CO.%1PLvnON REPORT



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTVRING AND TRANSMISSION EXPANSION
PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I     BACKOROUD
I Inlstroduction
2  CrrntSmicture midOrgnizaton of th EIctcukySect
2 3   rospecv Sucture and Organizaion of 0ie Elecntiy Seeo
THE PROJECTTH
IIObjecdvos -
22   Proiect Desnripdaon
3    Project Cost (Es!tpmes Versus Acuaml)
____ 4     PNoct Finamncing
S    Proem Of mplaentation and Project's Comprre Evalua on
=__ A     Pro=s of Imlemtaton ofthe Physca Comporea
a 220 kV SubstaIons
-      -     b 220 kV Overe Head Lines (04Q
c 220 k  Under Ound (U/l)Cbes
=      d Tha        Eleic Nntwk Cono Cee -LNCC)
-  B  PPhsical Component Evaludion
- - ~~~ Prgres of Implenmenaton of the lnsdmrioral D.velomnent Cwuponmw
D   Institutlonl Develom  Comone Evaluadon
IV    ADDITONAL NEW PROJECTS
V     MAIN PROJECT ISSUES
a EDL Finanial Performance
_     b 0 Mower Isoms At EDL 
VDI   EVALUATION OF EDL'S PERFORMANCE
VIW   EVALUATION OF WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
1X    OTHER FACTORS
I      LSDP- Lemer of Sectoral Dveiopment Policy
_ J    Map Showlng: The Route Of 220 kV Netwwk & Latzions of somo
Substations
III     ProjectCost fB Componen_
P^Gz 3 OF IS
EDL's COMNRIUVfON TO THE DIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPOrT
-55 -



I,    BACKGROUND
IOcda
Electicite du Liban (EDL) is the public electric power utility esponsible for
generadon, tansmission, and distnbution throughout Lebanon. It is under the
Adnnistntlve Tutelage of the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEWj, which is
responsible for policy formulation of the power sector.
Following Lebanon's cease-fire, the Power Sector in Lebanon was addresed and a
thre-phase action Plan was put to be gradually inplemented:
a. Short- term Emergency rehabilitation.
b. Medium- term reconstruction and expansion.
c. Long. term expansion and restrucuring, involving dte participa#on of the
Privae Sector.
The Oovernment of Lebanon- GOL sought the support of the World Ba-k WB and
other financiers in canying out the reforms, and requested their participaiuon in the
1996-2000 Power System Expansion Progmn designed to meet the beeds of a
growing economy.
in paticular, GOL requested the support of the WB to assist it In Aesiagnng a
moden institutional and regulatory fmimework for the sector, in mobilizng exteml
resourcos for reconstuction, unbundliog the main operational 1incdtons $f EDL and
bringing in private managemnt to run Generation and Distribution. Consultants
funded by the WB completed early in 1996 a management audit of theJ Secbr and
developed a menu of options and modalities, leading to the approval bG adL of a
setoral reform program (Council of Ministers-COM- of the Le se Rapublic
Resolution # 3746 dated Sept. 26, 1996, and spelled out in detail in 4. Lotter of
Sectoral Development Policy- LSDP- Annex J).
2 Cwr_ni Sruture and OrsgnJzafo of the 1kc9k, Sector
EDL is an inwated utility involved In power generation. tns4iussion and
distribution. As such, it owns and operates two major steam plans (900 MW
installed capacity), two gps turbine power plants (2x35 MW in each plant), and one
small hydroelectric plant (10MW); in addition to two combined cyclet plants
(435 MW each). The trnsmission system (150-KV and 66 KV) meaiures around
1000 Km, and the transformer capacity is approximately 1,600 MVA; a major
360-km  220-kV, system as well as 10 new substations are being cJmmissioned
gradually. EDL's disuibution network covers most of Lebanon - in all,EDEi serves
close to 1,000,000 (one million) consumers; an EDL subsidiay, Kadisl* o*ns and
operates small hydroelectric plant and steam powet plant (70MW), and distributes
power to about 100,000 consumers. Lastly, EDL buys power from Ptivate Power
Producers (mostly small hydroelectric plants) and imports power from Sria.
EDL employs about 2500 staff, most of which have been with the utility fdr many
years EDL's power facilities have suffered considerable damnag duaXng the civil
war, its organiaion and operations were advcrsely affected, and as a tesult% public
power supply throughout the county became  intermittent and sieli6ble. A
eonslderable effort has been made to rehablitate the sector; as a first priorit, 24
hour power supply was to be rtored. Following the physical rehabilitationl efforts,
an investment program in excess of USS 2.1 billion was launched in 1995-96,
involving power plants, transmission lines, a dispatch center, substations and
distribution networks - in parallel, a campaign was initiated to elimidate the
>             FAC G4 OF 15
EDLs CONTRIDtflONTO THIE IMPL'IL%W ATION COmPTNID  RPORt
-56-



unliconsd - ad hoc networks, and to disconnect iliegal connection. Ladty, a
diagosis of the sector and options study was camed out in 1995.
in addidon to EDL and Kadicha, he electric sector comprises the folowin martle:
1- Power Producers from hydro. electric gencration:
1.1 The Litani authority (ONL)- a Public authority.
1.2   The Bared generation concession- a Private udlity.
1.3 The Nahr- Ibrahim generation concession- a Private utility.
EDL purchases all the energy generated by these concessions. Both thO Bared and
Nabhr Ibahim concessions have respectively been put on hold,  id MEW
appointed special committes to manage them.
2- EDL Imponts power fiom Syria (up to 200 MW).
3- The four distribution concessions: Aley, Bhamdoun, beil, and ZAlile purchase
eery from EDL at medium voltage through individual contraet agreemnrs.
Energy flow to these concessions from EDL network at the varous fe*ies, lacked
close and tight monitoring and control.
j Prosect     Sructre gnd rgnizatIon gf the Elec_1ricli Sector
MEW has completed the draft law for the organizaton of the Electricitv sector and
$ubmitted it to the Parliament
This now Law sets the ground for a competitive power sector and allo4ws the vital
patcipation of the private sector in the acdvitios of the power. oen,monv
t_nmslon and distribudon. Another important aspect of this Law, is that it *llows
for the creation of a Regulatory Authority whose ta5k is to moitor'the hous
opeadons and activities of the Electricity Sector in collaboration with the Ministy
of Energy and Water.
In the meatire, the EDL Management has prepaed a plan to Improve the
performance of EDL and prepare it for restrctring and privatization ih a  manner
that would ensure the maximum benefit to EDL as well as to the GOL.
IL THE PROJECT
The objecdves are to: (a) expand the high-voltage trasumission systez to meet an
inegrted system peak demand at the N-1 level of reliability, and (b) assist the
Boffower to implement the Action Program in the LSDP which provides for
estabUshing an enabling environment for private sector involvement i the power
sector, including thfe institutional recnistng of the sector.
2 &&Rt &MW10
The Project comprises two elements: (a) an invesmient component
(US$378,064,920.00), which would include double- and single-cirpuit 220-kV
tranmission lines, underground 220-kV cables, and new 220-kV substaions along
with some rehabilitation prjects; and (b) an institutional developme4 component
(US$13 million) consisfing of technical assistane for Project Implementation
supervision, trining and assistance to implement the ititutional reform action
program defined in GOL's LSDP. A layout of the planmed routes of
k             4r           ~~~~~~~PAGIS50F 15
EDL' RONMIDTION TO THE IMPLEMrATION COMPLTON PZPOR1
-57 -
90id       tee       1 196+.                          jw3-s          L   se zO-Hnr-aZ



the 220-kV lines and cables, locations of substatlons, and major generaion sations
me shown In the map atthd (Annex II).
In order to address the environmental issues, the tansmission lihes routing
underwent an EZA study that was approved by the WB.
A lLicost (a4kmat wrsus         a)
Proect cost estimates (Table 3.1) below are compared to actual costs (including
variations) based on tenderd prices for the 220-kV tramisssion lines. underground
cables and substatitms and include a provision of USS 7 million to cover technical
assistance (implementation supervision) and training and USS 6 million for the
restrcturing proce. Land costs and purchase or rights of way are not Included. For
tho doied cost of the Project by component refer to Annex m.
Table 3.1: Summary Project Coats (Estimates versus Actual) (SS Milon)
ESTIMATE A"                   A VTI"
ComuDonal_ Local              Forma    I Total         TOW
T9mbsIo LIe                 14          49       63            8a23
Uod.r~ro   CIable  16         97       113          106.27
SubSWIOnS                   48          181     229           13.54
(incudin Commerc We)              _   _  _   __             _   _   _
Tochnil Assta  &             2           4        6               13
T minlnu                            _  _  _ _             _  _  _  _ _
Sub-total           s          331      411           391.04
NW" and Prloe                9          25       34             15.7-
Contlnaencies                                           _____
_______Dur      _   __       0          41       41    I
Totl Cost                       397       84461
(1) Exprprliaons' cost Is not Included
* approxlate
*5 isludins t Comrceial. Subsion.
Funding of Rights-of- Way and land acquisition remain unclear. Lan4 acquisition
fir tbe 220 kV substalions and 220 kV structum (mast) together with rights of way
for 220 kV tanmission lines was csimated arownd 90 billion Leb. Pounds (I.e. -
US$ 60 million). EDL was to allocate for these fAmds over 34 years wn is annual
budet. Fair equitable compensations for owners of land acquired or iight of way
Inurred, has been and is being estimated by independent committees ech ptesided
by a judge and two engineers (one of them from the Private Sector) and whero
appeals against committees decisions may be presented by both sides (1.and owner
and EDL), EDL faces difficulties in securing fusnds to pay these cony,nsations as
well as problems with the issue of the decisions related tO the estima4on or these
compensations and real estate disputes whlch consequemly delay the xecution of
the Project.
.) The Project ls being financed by buyers' credits, commercial loans, the
European Investment Bank (EIB), the French Protocol, the Islaruc 1Development
Bank (1DB), a WB loan (USS65 million) and WB Partial Credit Guatantoe Bond
(US$100 mnillion). The WB loan has been on lent by GOL to EDL at MRD terms. In
the event of delay in obtaining adequate financing, assurances were otainod from
the Govemment that themroceeds from the tiond sale would be applie4 directly to
Z ~~~~~~PAGC60FI5
EDL-a coNTRuiBvfO4 TO THE L'tP?LENMNTATION COMPLETION REPORT
- 58-
f80Sa   X 196+. W                           -n -a --3     ev:s6e zs-mnr-ez



Project cost and the period of Project implementation adjusted accordingly. Table 4.1
shows fth sours of loans, dthr amounts, and allocatin
Table 4.1: Sources aknd Amounts of Loans Allocaftd for the froIect
SOURCC            A%lU     CU'RR     RENCY 
l-D                       73.120.000 us$     220KV O.H.L        _
2-WILOA6MUSY              65.000.00  USS      UNDER GROUND CA-B5S.
_AALBECK SUBSTATIOP
3. Wa (IOOMUSD BONDS)     100,00A000 USS      220KV SUBSTATIONS.
SAIDA SUBSTAT1ON   _
4_ EIB                    16.000.000 ECU      UNDER GROUND CABLES
5- INDOSK4Z 4.62.912 U                        UN   GROUND CAS
6 SDUDE*                  7.927.405"V ?SS     UNDER GROUND CAlL
7'54IRftj               T29,700000  W        C0WERCLILE SUBS T'1R   .
8z PARl/:                 722.     Usi        220XV SUBSTATION ' 
9__iC C                    7.159.491 F.F.     220KV SUBSTATIONS%".
10 ItW                    19,171406 DM       220KVSUBSTA11ONSri     
11- SARADAR                4 688.130 USS     220KV SUBSSTATNSi
1WE        ELON           MA.=      CUO      LEBANESE ELECTRIC IOETWORK
CONTROL CENTER AND
TELECOMMUNICATi
13- EtB                    1.0A    ECU       u>WsE ELETIC NETWR
CONTRO CENTER ANDM
14- FRNCH PROTOCOL         5.000.000 USS    ITECHNICAL ASSIS
(the WB canMelled dte unallocated mom of S16,S29,704.00 fnm d* loan and s expected to
caned l. amountofSl,711321.59 sptred fom the contactwMh Pirelli.
0Baalbeck nd Saida Subtaions are no: CO_trated yOL
P) thse ww*s wem fnanced by SOLIDERE.
B Excludig Ballm substion.
m prect not contrcted yet The allocale porion for this projea has expied md cancelled by
do WB.
0 Loan agreement wn not ipproved by de parliament, and cancelled by t EID.
4.2) A partial credit guamntee for a US$100 million bond issue was proposed and
agreed to help mobilize the necessary financing to fund the financing.Wp of the
Projeca An amount of 16529704S was cancelled by the WB and it cancelled anothar
sum of 1711321.59S.
S &2=er. gflmdemenfaLqd     and Prolct CoMnonents 'EFvaluarions.-
A- PorLuofmhIte   atio   ofdiethvasLflzkSI5 I
& 22*VSRolw
Contracts are awarded in throc Lots. The general time schedule Indicated a
satisfatoy progress of implementaSion with a delay on the planned scheclle.
Lot I SIS awarded to Schmdder: Ammoun, Pins, Ras Beirut and MWalIed, except
the Commerciale which was a%vnrded to Hitachi- Melec consorriun
By December 99 the entire above listed substations were complettd. Only one
substation in Lot I - Rau Beimt substation incuTed substantial delay. The
planned schedule for Ras Beirut 18 months, starting Jan 97- June 98 could
not be met, due to delay in land acquisition. Construction perMit was issued in
18/9/2000 and works were completed in 12/2001.
and
U~~~ ~I'AGE 7OF IS
EDLs CO%.1RIWflON OTtiV0 TIPLENILTATION COMPLETIN REPORr
- 59 -
Pe82t8s 1 t96 + +                            @nwa 3        6b: 60 Z0-Hnr-ez



Lot 2 SGS awaned to So: Ksara, Sour & Halat.
The works in this lot were complaetd by 04/2000.
L       9salim, Salda and Basibeck.
SUbsequenlt to the receipt of the bids for Lot 3, the selection of GIS lbr the S/S
at Badbeck mnd Salda did not appear to meet the last-cost criterio4 and the
appeared to be neither economic nor environentda justificadon for the use of
GIS theein.
Rebidding of both Baalbeck and Salda as conventional outdoor S/S was
decided. New bids were received in 1998 and evaluated by an EbL internml
committe, however, a decision to award these contracts was not finlizedl
Negotlations with the lowest evaluated bidder for Bsalim was also d~ecided and
an interministerial Committee (the Energy and Water Minister and the FinanCe
Minister) was charged to finalize the issue.
The works were startd in 01/2001 and are to be completed by 1/2003.
Lha A      awarded to Saudi - Cbl I KEC 
0/H line     Sour -7ahrani
"   "       Zahrani-Armmoun
A
"   "       Aramoun-Bsalin
'. u        Aramoun-Sofar.
Bsalim-Maameltein-Halano
B
Kosba-Bahsas.
Lots A& B were planned to start on December 1996 with time for completion
betwe 16 -24 month.
Bids evauation for Lots A& B were completed on time. However,
considerable delay in IDBAUIF loan approval by the Lebanese Parliament
imposed shifting the contacts staring date from Dec. 96 to ian. 99 for
Contract A, and to Oct 98 for Contnact K Nearly 2 years delays
As a result, EDL was, and is still, in no position to operate the combined Cycle
Plants effectively and efficiently, evacuate sufficient load fiom thcji and meet
load demand in the main load Centers, namely grea   Beinrt and Mount-
Lebanon. EDL is resorting to temporary transmission system maneuvers to
overcome bottlenecks and load demand.
Lotc C warded to TFA O/H line  Deir Nbouh (North) - Ksam
Lot 2 incured some delay, as the land acquisidon Committees could not
complete their taks of evaluating compensations tO landOwners fOr land
acquisition and/or rights of way. 7hese delays hampered the final time of
completion of the Loand fte works were completed by 02/99.
PAGESB OF 15
EDL's CONTRIUTION TO THE MPLEMLNTATION COMPLETION REORr
-60-
I'db 280886 I  96+'                                             Z0-HN-8Z



Lg,Sofrr-Xsara nwarded to Teldntmat O/H lune
The issues encountered in Lot C and detailed above, were similar to hie
problems in this section. The works in this section started befoe Ie start of
the Project. Works were completed by 11/99.
Nevertheless, two issues worth mentioning:
i- there are repetitive delays in Payments of compensation dues to landowners,
due to lack of available fiuds.
ii- Landowners objection either to being expropriated, to have transmission lines
over their land and/or to the amount of compensation:
This issue was, and still is, the biggest headache to both EDL and the Contractors.
c  2MAY-t_derMa          CAS   LoA     JJ
Lot I awaed to Saudi - cabLU/G  Cables Commerciale-Pins
Lot2 awarded to Alatal
U/O Cables Aramoun-Pins
4'   "Pins-Ras Beinu
" Ras Beirut-Commerciale
" Commerciale-mkalles.
j4t 3 saardd tSo ULrell U/O Cables Beddawi-Bahsas.
The planned starting date for all the Lots was Dec. 96. Excet fpr the LoS
(Beddawi-Bahsas) which started on July, 97, Lots I & 2 started w(th one-year
delay.
Delay due to expropriation problems for Bahsas substations hindered the
works In this Lot.
The work in Lots 1 and 2 were compled     by 02/2000 whllo  l Lot 3 by
06/2001.
Moreover, in Lot 3 damagps occured to the UGC cable by  third paty
bridge contractor) and repairs shall be done the cost of which,might vary
btween $225,000.00 and $564,000.00 depending upon the result otesting the
cables.
A  rho Lgkkm    Ml c Nih.Y L MLC enter Ca&C
Action Plan for the Lebanes Electric Network Control Center (LENCC)
scheduled on April - May 1997 for bids evaluation, July 1997 for contract
award and October 1997 dte coming into force of the Contract for the supply
& erection of the LENCC.
he situation may be smmized as folows:
Bids were received in August 1998. EDF was charged of performing the
evauation process and presented its final report on bids evaluaion on Dec.
lf        ~~~PAGE 9 OF 1.4
EDL's CO%R1IDTION TO THE lMIPLLMraATtON COIPLUTION' EPOR
-61-
b0s8S   I 196 0 +                          wn     .-I    es:60e Z0-Hnr-8z



1998. While, Decision Systems International- DSI which was charged with the
task of a second bids evaluation presented its report on Jan. 1999.
The rports differed on the evaluation of certain iems and on the manking of
bidders.
Moreover, DSI proposed that catain technical modificsions to the tender
documents are necessary and would lead to rebidding and substantal savings
In the LENCC overall Contract Price.
Contadictory conclusions of the two consultants as well as non- eompliant
items In some of the bids presented to EDL, lead to a decision by bn internal
EDL evaluation committee concluding that the bids are not compliaht with the
tender documents and a re-bidding process is to be done.
During the month of December 2001 and as a result of the negotigtions with
th Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, a draft loan'agreement
has been signed with the CDR to finance the LENCC project.
On tbe other hand, EDF has submitted an updated version of the: Technical
Tender Documents, while the administrative part is to be prepard by EDL and
the CDR. The final tender documents are to be released by the CDIL
EML has submitted the revised Tender Documents to the! CDX A
complementary step towards the achievement of the constructon of the
LENCC, is to review and issue these Tender Document and to prepare
Request for Proposal- RFP documents to hire consultancy serviMes for the
evauaion of the prospective bids and the supervision of the Conowon of
th LENCC, these RFP documents are to be prepared by EDL and the CDR.
The RFP documents are to be released by the CDR
B- _A_i,aLCamIeL       &L  MI
a. 22GkivS,,hmt.nw) (Conlti gavao*iedINSoIS)
The geneal time schedule indicated a satisfactory progess of implementadon
with a delay on the planned schedule. The major delay in Lot 1 was in Ro
Beirut substation duo to Exappropriation problem.
The major dealy that occurred was in Lot 3 which comprises B.lun, Saida
and Baalbeck. The works in Bsalim substation started in Jan 2QOI and are
planned to be completed in Jan 2003. However, contracts for, Saida and
Boalbeck are not awarded yet
b, 224)kVowh,ad 111Ws(aeQ/ cmutm awJletlhI1Lom)
Lot 1 awrded ro Sau  - CaSs / KC conrriny:
Lots A & B were planned to start on December 1996 with time for completion
between 16-24 months.
Bids evaluation for these lots was completed on time. However, considerable
delay in IDB/UIF loan approval by ihe Lebanese Parliament imposed shifting
the contracts starting date from Dec. 96 to Jan. 99 for Contrt Am and to Oct
98 for Contract B- Nearly 2 year delays.
1/       ~~PAGE 1 0t OfS
EDLs CO-4TRIBLITION TO THE IMPLE81ENTATION COMIPLETION azPOgt'
-62-
t.8OS~                                                   tC6U 196l a - a  z:se r- t-8m z



Lot C incurred some delay, as the land acquisition Committees could not
complete their tasks of evaluaing compensations to landowunri for land
acqulsiWon and/or rights of way. Thoesu delays hamperd the fI time of
completion of the Lot and the works were completed by 02/99.
LotS awarded to Tek&Wn   ato-ntract
The issues encounteed in Lot C and detailed above, were similar In this Lot.
Works were completed by 11/99.
c. 22DAk- Utderrromnd(U/G) Cablea Lois 1.2 & 3i
Lot I awarded to Saudi Cables; Lot 2 awarded to Alcatel and Lot 3 auwarded to
Pirelli.
The planned stasring date for all the Lots was Dec. 96. Except fir the Lo3
(Beddawi-Bahsas) which stated on July, 97, Lots I & 2 wued with one-year
delay.
Delay due to expropnation problems for Bahsas substaons hiidered the
woks in Lot 3.
he works in Lots I and 2 were completed by 022000 whib in Lot 3 by
06/2001.
Moreover, in Lot 3 damags occurred to the UGC cable by a third party
(bridge contrctor) and rpairs shall be done.
Atboiugh there was a deep need to renforce the transmission grdd and to
consruct a new 220 kV network, no major and deep concern was: paid to the
rehabilitation of the medium and low voltage networks. Tho jhabiit on
done of these networks was not based on a well.defined plan. An 4xample for
this inconvenience is the inexistence of a plan for installing outgoing medium
voltge feeders from the newly built 220 kV substations to foed ihe MV/LV
substations.
The weaknss in the structure of both EDL and the tutelage Mni y (MW)
as well as many other organizational and instituional obstcles  ndred the
smooth implementation of the Project. These weak points were nQt takn into
consideraion in a realistic manner during the early stages of prdparion for
llis Projecte
Engineering supvision of the Project, namely substations, OH lins and U/G
cables have been allocated to Electricite' De France (EDF), as Part of the French
Protocol.
Howover the other part of the Institutional Development Component, assistance to
Implement the institutional reform action progmm defined in GOL's LSDP, was not
contlnued. A sector resucturing and privatization progran, was hIrod upon
b%weenthe GOL and the WE and mTaor steps were taken (formation otShort list of
C   ltants to prp      a comprehensive study for the Resmiktudng and
Prvtization of EDL; Fal ion of the related Request for Proposa4). However,
IMDL- CO  tM0i'T0 TO HE L%fLPMnTATtON C0MPLETION RCrr
-63-
di          b882809     I  8S  1 196+..                     [ -3     ZCE:    7as *--A



rho OQL has opted to charge the BNP- PARIBAS to carry out the restuctur   and
privatzdon study of the sector.
D. laUaLgmLc*.mfEWSIkf
MEW has completd the draft law for the organation of the Electricity sector and
was submitted by the GOL to the Parliament. Howev, dtis step wa deiycd due to
many factors and Is still in critical status. The Law is now being rOviewed by
parliamentary committees.
This new Law sets the ground for a competitive power sector and allows the vital
participation of the private sector in the activities of tbe power 'generation,
transmission and distribution. Anodier important aspect of this Law, is t1pat It allows
for the cradtion of a Regulatory Authority whose task is to monitor the various
opeations and activities of the Electricity Sector in collaboration with the Ministry
of Energy and Water.
EDL in collaboration with the CDR has prpared for the contuctlon of
c_d ection line with Syria at a vohage of 400 kV as wolls the 4xtion of
Kmsa Substation 400/220 kV in the context of the regional interconnection plan of
Egypt Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon. Syria and Turkey. This line and the extegrslon of te
Ksaa subsaon ae financed by fte Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development and are expected to be commissioned by mid 2003.
The nocessity of additional geneation capacity, on B.O.O. or any othet convenent
bass, is wo be investigtd Other project are necessary for the enhadnement ant
improvement of the performance of the EDL such as reinforcing the medium vohWe
and low voltage networks. Tue following is a list of major projects that des4rve
coniiderable attention:
3 1rdw7 eo of the Nau    al
6   Conulanv. Mauement god Execuii                -for the Financial
a.EDL  Cr Finacl Pe fOm
EDL suffers from a high level of losses both Technical and non- Techiical. There is
no precise number of the Technicil losses, but these ar estimated at l$%, wWile the
non-Tecbnical losses are more thn 30 %.
EDL' CONfRl3tVTI07 TO THE IMlPLDIENTATlN CObPLErION RF0t
-64-
_A t _ _ = = sR R _r _ R



Technia lom are expected to be reduced after the completion of the 220 kV
network, fimher reduction would be through the enanment of the medium voltag
as well as the low voltage network.
Non. Teclmical losses can be resolved through dhe enforcement of the Laws (in
pusicular serious law enforcement and the stict applicadon of the Lebanee penal law
n@. 632 dated 23/4/1997), the moderniaton of Billing and Collection gne*dods, by
uswig modem and advanced computer software and hardware eqipment, the
recritmnent and training of competent and qualified personnel to ojerate these
systems, and/or through contracting these services to the private sector. Nevertheles,
without proper law enforcement, EDL is in no position to speed up curbing non-
tecbaical losses.
Another major problem contributing to the weakness of the financial stotws of EDL is
dto accmulated arrears of which about 80% are due on the private sector
EDL's account Is being audited by an international auditor. The reports qf the auditor
have been Quatled for the past years due to the shortage in information' and the fact
that ther is a shora  in the number of qualified and specialized comptet staff in
th Fincial directorte at EDL.
7h cwren: structure of tariffs and overall revenue levels are out of line vfth cost and
revenue requirments and with -the needs for the re-establishment of tbh fnancial
health of the power sector. A tariff study based on the marginal costs of a supply-
demand system  nd the financial objecdves of EDL was completed' bv EDF In
September 1999. However, no decision was taken accordingly.
EDL u a gmwing utlity, cannot ftx the sracture of its organizadon. EDL budget
allowed fr needed Manpower increase until 1985, when a general f   on all new
employment in the govemnment was imposed by the Lebanee Council f Ministes.
With this fieez, EDL manpower dcreased gradually fom a total workre of 4283
in 1985 to about 2500 by 2001's end, while the number of cwtomor&lns esed to
about one milflon (1000000). The aveage age of EDL's persoel is ab6ve 51 yeas
May Posts in the categories 2 and 3 are expected to become vacant ii the coiming
year  A managedal cnsis within EDL cannot be avoided unless bing of new
qulified staff and training of EDL's exisdng qualified staff is performed followed by
prbimng them.
Hardly any funds are allocated for the training formation and technologj updating of
EDL huma resources. An urgent acdon plan is needed whemby employees of all
categoris are trained and updated. Intemational agencies are spending lurge ftns to
ttain utilties' manpower. EDL should seek hese flnds and secure thern todevlop all
its human resources.
EDL salry scale is lower than that of the private sector, however employeesbenefit
fom many other sevices provided to them by EDL. One of the impediments for
obtaining higher efficiency is the foct that tho working hours per lveek for the
majority of the personnel are low: 32 hrsWweek compared to 40 hrs/week jntbe Private
Sector, while the EDL's contractual engineers work 45 hweek. Ihe paynent of
extensive overtime hous to efficient staff might be an incentivj fo  higher
producivity.
s salary scales are not motives enough to qualified engineers and technicta  to
rnain at EDL. A sizable nUMber of the staff gain experience at EDL ahd seek beer
oppomemitles elsewhere (Example out of aboul 40 new enginers recrlted in 1995, 29
renained at EDL;, with  r are still seeking new oppomnnines elsewhere).
z        qL             r~~~~~~~AGE 13 OF 15
LDL's CONTULlION TO HE IMPLEML'TATION COMPLETION REPO r
-65-                         I
bS085 1 i96 e+                             '3 -a '3     S:6e ze-Nnr-eS



no gradual dain on EDL human resourcas and the continuing freem on new
enplo6oment has blocked EDL from peaforming its normal aivites and hindred its
deielopment.
Inespective of the form EDL recturing is finally settled, the manpower issues
(qualty and quantity) at EDL must be tackled and given top priority.
Another dolution might be through outsourcing vital activities like tbh conection of
new consumers, development and maintenance of the MV/LV networks, collec$ion of
bills, et..
VTf NISCELLANEOUS
Importamt aspects in the Electricity sector should be addressed. Attenion should be
paid to the energy intensity/ energy efficiency, Demand Side Managertent. DSM,
Renewable Energy, Environmental issues, etc..
The above-mentioned problems hindered in a considerable size the proper
lmplemeriwion of the Project. Although some of these cause couldn't be avoided.
some of these ar attibutable to EDL's stucture  u well as afflitude and AwArene  of
the various aspects related to tho Project. Amongst these are:
1. absence of a structure with specific authority to follow up the. Project and
delay in assigning Project M anament Unit (PMU) to ranagp the Project
and delegating authority to It to take decisions and actions. Although this
unit was assigned no authority wa given to it, and most of the members
had no added value to contibute to the good execution of 'te Project,
moreover they were not able to attend most of the meertn duoe to ths fact
as we as for being buoy in t hklrg *ti day to day work;
2. weaknes in the structure of EDL and absence of adequato number of
competent staff to look over the various aspects of the Proet (technical,
administrative, financial etc..);
3. the repetitve changes in the Administion of EDL contributed much to
the poor performance of EDL. The persons who were in cha4e dwuing the
early stages of the Project were changed and the persons w!ho assumed
rmsponsibility threafter needed much time to cope with whet was going
on;
4. Existence of diffent visions regarding the various aspects of the Project
which was reflected in the bidding proceures and inability to award
contracts to the tendes administrated by EDL;
S. Lack of efficient coordination and coheence between EDL and the other
pertinent parties (MEW, CDR, MOF, etc..)
6. lack of finance to cover the Expropriations' cost
> 7. Many other reasons.
PACE 14 OF 15
LOLas CO,TJBUT1ON TO THE IMPLEMENTTtOIN COPLME ION  OR
-66-
w9S2se   T 196++ @---a-3                                 vc:6e ze-flnr-ez



LEBANON POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND TRANSMISSION
EXPANSION PROJECT.
INTENSIVE LEARNING IMPLEMETATION COMPLETION REPORT
STATUS OF COMPLETION OF 220-KV SYSTEM
Br  I
SVI LIA
Ar\1~~~~~KOA A         L
]   ,,   ~~NORD     
,_              X4. ~~~~~~LAB(>t'E 
Miunicip. Kl) ar Kalel  ________
MNunicil Heil Nk.n
R %h BFIRt'Tts;PICAl.l.Fs  aR      f             bSYRIA
Niunkip.ilx .Aim,, ,Suatlkb  P 1   ;; 20zZ  
Maimiuriebil  nlr%  4RA  I  t   ' ' ' F' '
M   - - tiil h Anilleoin et BIi ater
S(l R
-  _67 -            r    InN gdunF
-67-






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26093
BEIRUT                                                            36 loo                             36130
COMME                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th,o mp -,e prod-od
/        , o 0 ,COMMERC   IAEJ'ALE5h-o>JrgnU:
_oo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b k agp DZgi,n Uni
i  BATAC     ,1  - - -                                                                        boundartes, colors,
ITA                                                  __                              o/enaonatmatns and any
BEYRO     *.    '       ACHRAFIEH                                                                  oh-r ''on shoa d-on
~~ J  an~ this niar t fo
PINSN '                                                                                 The World Bank Gr-op,
any jo*i-et on rh leawl
*        s~~~'tn,  or any  trritay,
r ay  nd-rsni-nt
\   8^ \v      ~    ~    34 30           /         D             \     2 8 -34 30or occ=lnce of s.ch
35o303            TR         I.P
,)t     g~ORD                                      *
Mediterranean
Sea
HAL;      /J                                    BALBECK
34000                                                                                     / /1                   34A00
, ~~ZOUKJ7 
Sere Insof Above / /  
/  x  ARAMOUN        /         /                    LEBANON
/ POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND
'     /TRANSMISSION EXPANSION PROJECT
'a,/  sr   /   t   220 kV AND 150kV NETWORK
Jl/         4Ax /        <               -'              FOR 1500 MW SYSTEM AND
MAJOR EXISTING AND PROPOSED
GENERATING PLANTS
SAID         
3330'                                                                   PROPOSED EXISTING                        3330'
ZAHr-                                                                   220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
- - - - -      220 kV UNDERGROUND CABLES
150 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
- - - - - 150 kV UNDERGROUND CABLES
220/150 kV SUBSTATIONS
220/66 kV SUBSTATIONS
(TYOUR)j\                   t t /                              13          220 kV/MV SUBSTATIONS
T       A Q   *  MAJOR THERMAL GENERATING PLANTS
|  j                                     @           GAS TURBINE GENERATING PLANTS
HYDROELECTRIC SITES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
- . -*- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0   5   10  15 20 25 Kilometers
/                                                    ~~~~~~~~~I  I  I  I  I  I
-330                                                                                                              33'000l
0     5     10    15    20    25 Miles
3530'                             36'00'                              3630'
OCTOBER 1996






IMAGINU--
RapArt NA.:          24274
Type:      IC



