Report No. PIC4340
Project Name              Lebanon-Power Sector Restructuring and...
Transmission Expansion
Region                    Middle East and North Africa
Sector                    Distribution and Transmission
Project ID                LBPA36087
Borrower                  The Lebanese Republic
Implementing Agency       Electricite du Liban (EDL)
Ministry of Hydraulic and Electric Resources
(MHER)
Government of Lebanon (GOL)
Electricite du Liban
P.O. Box 131
Rue du Fleuve
Beirut, Lebanon
Contact: Mr. Mouhib H. Itani
Tel : 961-1 444-112
Fax : 961-1 583-084
Environmental Category    B
Poverty Category          Not applicable
Date PID Prepared         May 31, 1995
Date PID Prepared         October 1, 1996
Appraisal                 May 1996
Projected Board Date      December 1996
1.   Background.  The Country Assistance Strategy for Lebanon emphasizes
support for the reconstruction of infrastructure and the implementation
of the private-sector-led economic recovery program of the Government.
The Government+s initial National Emergency Reconstruction Program
(NERP) covers a series of high-impact rehabilitation investments,
limited development of new facilities in areas of most urgent need, as
well as institutional strengthening and technical assistance elements.
It is supported by US$2 million of Bank assistance through the Emergency
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (ERRP, Loan 3562-LE - 1993),
including a US$50 million supplement approved in May 1996, in the fields
of power, water and waste water, solid waste, vocational education,
housing and telecommunications. The assistance also addresses
environmental concerns.
2.   Project Objectives.   The primary project objectives are to provide
the backbone high voltage transmission system capacity needed to meet
existing and projected demand for utility grade electricity service
throughout Lebanon, while reestablishing the overall financial viability
of the sector. This is to be accomplished by: (a) providing a high
voltage transmission system rebuilt to meet an integrated system peak
demand, at the N-1 level of reliability, of approximately 1,500 MW; and



(b) helping GOL establish an enabling environment -- including the legal
and regulatory framework -- to attract private investment in the power
sector.
3.   Project Description
(a) Investment Component: The proposed project would provide an
urgently needed HV national transmission system, which includes 339 km
of double circuit 220 kV transmission lines; 49 km of underground 220 kV
cable; and 14 new 220 kV substations; and
(b) Institutional Development Component: A regulatory framework
for the operation of the power sector; technical assistance to implement
same; and assistance to implement the Action Program defined in the
Government+s Letter of Sectoral Development Policy.
4.   Project Cost and Financing.   Cost estimates for the substation,
transmission line, and underground cable components are based on
feasibility studies conducted by Electricite de France and results of
bids received under advance procurement and contracting. The overall
cost estimate totals US$498 million and includes: physical and price
contingencies (US$73 million); interest during construction (US$37
million); transmission lines (US$64 million); substations (US$196
million); underground cables (US$122 million); and technical assistance
(US$6 million). Financing includes an IBRD +A+ loan of approximately
US$65 million, cofinancing by the European Investment Bank and the
Islamic Development Bank, a GOL bond issue of US$100 million (guaranteed
by the Bank) as well as buyers+ credits.
5.   Rationale for Bank Involvement.   The proposed Project constitutes
a logical follow-up to the emergency rehabilitation of the electricity
sector under the ERRP. It is also essential to the satisfactory
completion and sustainability of the power system facilities
rehabilitated under the NERP. Government has requested the support of
the Bank to assist it in designing a modern institutional and regulatory
framework for the sector and in mobilizing external resources for
reconstruction. The former involves a step-by-step process which will
take several years to put in place. Without the specialized technical
support that the Bank is able to provide, it is likely that the process
of institutional renewal would be postponed, putting at risk the entire
sector reconstruction effort
6.   Project Sustainability. Project sustainability is dependent on: (a)
careful design of structural reforms; (b) introduction of an unambiguous
legal framework; (c) clear definition of an impartial and competitive
regulatory structure; and (d) a Government commitment to carry out the
reforms. GOL+s commitment to implement the preceding institutional and
policy reforms is demonstrated by the action program in its LSDP. This
policy framework provides for the use of operational contracting
(affermage) for electricity generation and distribution. The incentive
structure and regulatory framework to be made part of the affermage
contracts would be designed to further assure the project+s
sustainability and the efficient management of sector assets by
providing the private operators with full operational responsibility.
The private operators would bear normal commercial risks associated with
- 2 -



electric utility operations, and would be required to provide all, or
part of, the working capital requirements. In the near to intermediate
term EDL/GOL would continue to provide capital needs for long gestation
and long-lived system facility additions.
7.   Project Benefits.   The proposed project would provide urgently
needed transmission capacity in the power sector. Backbone transmission
facilities are an integral part of the sector's priority investment
program and without it, EDL will be unable to deliver power from its new
facilities. Phasing of construction in a modular fashion, e.g.
initially building for a system demand of 1,500 MW under the N-1
reliability criteria, will permit close tracking of future growth in
demand.
8.   Eliminating rotating power cuts and the risk of unplanned blackouts
have large indirect benefits through the avoidance of the disruption to
economic activity. Without these investments and the accompanying
institutional reforms, the improvements in electricity supply recently
achieved under the NERP would not be sustainable. The ability to
provide reliable public supply will lead to the shutdown of small,
inefficient private generators. The main economic benefits from the
project result from the incremental electricity demand served, as well
as from assuring the sustainability of the substitution of lower cost
grid supply for informal generation (available from the NERP emergency
rehabilitation).
9.   The project is expected to strengthen EDL+s sectoral analysis and
planning capability. It would also enhance its ability to manage the
new transmission system. The financial recovery measures under the
project would help ease EDL+s reliance on operating subsidies from the
national budget.
10. Project Risks. The investment component of the project does not
involve any unusual technical or environmental risks. Implementation
will be on a turnkey basis using prequalified international contracting
firms. Final costs are known with reasonable accuracy as bids have
already been received. The project includes an institutional
strengthening component to reduce the risks of poor overall project
management. The major risks facing the project are of a non-technical
nature. Restructuring the sector and delegating the bulk of EDL+s
operations to the private sector is key to achieving the anticipated
benefits earlier than under the status quo. Recruitment of private
operators could be delayed or hindered because of public opposition.
Care is being taken to prepare comprehensive, high-quality bidding
documents and to ensure that the process is conducted objectively and
transparently. This is an innovative project in the Lebanese context
and the reform process may prove to be slower to implement than
currently estimated. Until now, the focus of GOL has been on physical
reconstruction. While there is no substantive difference of opinion on
the nature of the needed reforms, the above-mentioned constraints may
slow down the process and hence a longer time period may prove to be
necessary to put them in place. GOL will need to make a special effort
to convince the public that, in light of the risk that the unbundling of
the sector will be perceived as responsible for tariff increases, these
increases would be required even if the status quo were maintained.
- 3-



11. Project Implementation. Negotiations have been completed in
Washington, D.C., and final agreement of Government is pending. The
proposed institutional building components would be implemented by the
MHER. EDL would be responsible for the transmission and substation
components. A project management team, consisting of experts from an
experienced project management consulting firm, is to provide assistance
to EDL in the implementation of its transmission program.
12. Environmental Aspects. The environmental impact of the project has
been reviewed by the Government and their consultants and judged to be
manageable. The project has been placed in environmental screening
Category B. An Environmental Mitigation Plan has been prepared and will
be implemented by EDL.
Contact Point:       Task Manager
Rama Skelton, MN2PI
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4942
Fax: (202) 477-0348
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending October 4, 1996.
- 4 -



