Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4112-LE
                              Loan Agreement
       (Power Sector Restructuring and Transmission Expansion Project)
                                 between
                            LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated December 16, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4112-LE
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1996, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
     (B)  the Bank has received a letter dated September 26, 1996, from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve reform of the Borrower's power sector (hereinafter
called the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program;
     (C)  Parts A and B (i) of the Project will be carried out by
Electricit du Liban (EDL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EDL part of
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (D)  to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower
intends to contract: (i) a loan from the European Investment Bank
(EIB) in the amount of $20,000,000 equivalent; (ii) a loan from the
Islamic Development Bank (IDB) in the amount of $31,000,000 equi-
valent; (iii) export credit loans in an aggregate amount equivalent
to $130,000,000; and (iv) loans from commercial banks in an aggregate
amount equivalent to $79,000,000;
     (E)  the Borrower intends to issue bonds up to an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000) to be guaranteed by the Bank pursuant to the Partial
Credit Guarantee Program as a portion of the Co-financing Amount; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and EDL;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
EDL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and EDL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "EDL" means Electricit du Liban, a public authority
established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 16878 of the
Borrower, dated July 10, 1964, amended by Decree No. 4517 of the
Borrower, dated December 13, 1972, and as the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (e)  "MHER" means the Borrower's Ministry of Hydraulic and
Electric Resources;
     (f)  "CDR" means Council for Development and Reconstruction, a
public authority established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 5
of the Borrower, dated January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (g)  "Co-financing Amount" means the resources referred to in
Recital (D) and (E) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
     (h)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing
on January 1 and ending on December 31;
     (i)  "Central Bank" means Banque du Liban, the Borrower's central
bank, established and operating pursuant to the Money and Credit Law
promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower, dated August 1, 1963,
as the same may be amended from time to time; and
     (j)  "Action Plan" means the action plan set forth in a letter,
including the attachment thereto, from EDL to the Bank of even date
herewith; and
     (k)  "PMT" means the Project Management Team to be maintained
within EDL in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of the
Project Agreement.
     (l)  "Performance Indicators" means the indicators referred to
in Section 3.05 (a) to this Agreement and set forth in a supplemental
letter of even date herewith.
Page  3
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to sixty five million dollars ($65,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in "Dollars" for value the first day
               of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
               initial Interest Period, for value the Interest
               Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the
               first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably
               determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); and (B) minus
               (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
               by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
Page  4
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the
Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(i) carry out Part B (ii) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other sources required for Part B (ii) of
the Project; and (ii) cause EDL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Action Plan all the
obligations of EDL therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
EDL to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2) (a) of the
table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to
EDL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and EDL, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank which shall include: (i) repayment of principal in nine
and a half (9 1/2) years including a grace period of four and a half
(4 1/2) years; (ii) the payment of interest at the rate calculated
in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (iii) EDL to
bear the foreign exchange risk on such onlending.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of consultants' services required for Part B (ii) of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, and
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Parts
A and B (i) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
Page  5
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by EDL in
respect of Parts A and B (i) of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1998,
present to the Parliament draft legislation providing for a competitive
power market through the separation of electricity generation, trans-
mission and distribution functions, the active participation of the
private sector therein, and the establishment of an autonomous
regulatory body in the sector.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
Performance Indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, not later than September 30, 1998, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during
the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, not later than November 30, 1998, or
such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
the said report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                        Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine (9) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
Page  6
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
               ditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all measures required on its part to
enable EDL to achieve the financial objectives stated in Sections 4.02,
4.03, and 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
     (b)  EDL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that EDL will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  Decree No. 16878 or Decree No. 4517 of the Borrower
establishing EDL and under which it is operating, as amended, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of EDL to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of EDL or for the suspension of its operations.
     (f)  Any part of the Co-financing Amount shall have failed to
become available by June 30, 1997, or such later date as the Bank
may agree, provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (g)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                    ceeds of any part of the Co-financing Amount
                    shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated pursuant to the terms of the agree-
                    ment providing therefor; or
               (B)  any loan included in the Co-financing Amount
Page  7
                    shall have become due and payable prior to the
                    agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that (A) such suspension, cancellation or pre-
               maturing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
               to perform its obligations under the agreement con-
               cerning the relevant Co-financing Amount; and (B)
               adequate funds for the Project are available to the
               Borrower on terms and conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that
Section.
                               ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and EDL.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EDL, and is legally binding upon EDL in accordance with
its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and EDL and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and EDL in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Beirut, Lebanese Republic
                                   Telex:
                                   923 23513
     For the Bank:
Page  8
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                    By /s/ Rafic Al-Hariri
                                   Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
                                                                President
                                SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated         % of
                            (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category                  Dollars)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods, including
     the installation thereof:
     (a)  under Part A (ii)   47,600,000     100% of foreign
          of the Project                     expenditures, 100%
                                             of local expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost) and
                                             85% of local
                                             expenditures
     (b)  under Part A (iii)  10,400,000     100% of foreign
          of the Project                     expenditures, 100%
                                             of local expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost) and
                                             85% of local
                                             expenditures
(2)  Consultants' services and
     training:
     (a)  under Part B (i) of    400,000     100%
Page  9
          the Project
     (b)  under Part B (ii) of
          the Project            400,000     100%
(3)  Unallocated               6,200,000
                              __________
          TOTAL               65,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after August 1, 1996.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
goods, including installation thereof, under contracts not exceeding
$5,000,000 equivalent, and services and training under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a)
expanding its high voltage transmission system; and (b) establishing
an enabling environment for private sector involvement in the power
sector including the institutional restructuring of the sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Power Transmission Expansion
     Supply and installation of: (i) about 339 km of single and double
circuit 220 kV transmission lines; (ii) about 49 km of underground 220
kV cable; and (iii) about 14 new 220 kV substations.
Part B:   Institutional Development
     (i)  Assistance to EDL in implementing the Project through the
          provision of training and consultants' services; and
    (ii)  Assistance to MHER in implementing the Program through the
          provision of training and consultants' services.
                                *  *  *  *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002
                                SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
Page  10
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (Expressed in Dollars)*
On September 15, 2006                      65,000,000
___________________________
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
   repaid except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
   Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                        Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Page  11
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
                as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                shall have been shown by said documents and other
                evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  12
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the Project, minus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to Parts A and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for
Parts A and B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Con-
ditions.
