Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4112-LE
                            Project Agreement
       (Power Sector Restructuring and Transmission Expansion Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                            ELECTRICIT DU LIBAN
                          Dated December 16, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4112-LE
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ELECTRICIT DU LIBAN (EDL).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Lebanese Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount equal to sixty five million
dollars ($65,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that EDL agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EDL,  part of  the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to EDL on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS EDL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE II
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. EDL declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out Parts A and B (i) of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with the Action Plan, in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental
and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Parts A and B (i) of the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for Parts A and B (i) of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) EDL shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A and B (i) of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, EDL shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               months after the Closing Date or such later date as
               may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and EDL,
               a plan for the future operation of Parts A and B (i) of
               the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with EDL on said plan.
     Section 2.04. EDL shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EDL
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) EDL shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A and B (i) of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  EDL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A and
B (i) of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by EDL of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. EDL shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1997,
undertake a risk assessment study reviewing EDL's insurance coverage
under terms satisfactory to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank the
results of such review for comments; and (c) implement recommendations
of study taking Bank's comments, if any, into account.
     Section 2.07. EDL shall carry out the environmental management plan
included in the Environmental Assessment dated March 1996, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.08. EDL shall maintain a PMT with staff whose qualifica-
tions and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, to assist
EDL in carrying out the Project.
                                ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of EDL
Page  3
     Section 3.01. EDL shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. EDL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices.
     Section 3.03. EDL shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) EDL shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
     (b)  EDL shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
               able to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine months after the end of each
               of  the fiscal year 1996 and the fiscal year 1997, and
               six months after the end of every fiscal year there-
               after, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
               for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
               audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EDL
shall take all measures, including periodic adjustments of its tariffs,
to produce, not later than January 1, 2000, total revenues equivalent
to not less than the sum of its total cash operating expenses and
interest and other charges on debt; and (b) for the purposes of this
Section, the term "total cash operating expenses" means all expenses
related to operations including administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes excluding provision of
depreciation.
     Section 4.03. EDL shall: (a) not later than January 1, 1998, carry
out a study of the structure and levels of its tariffs reflecting the
actual cost of supply to different consumer groups, a lifeline rate for
low income consumers and encouraging energy conservation, and furnish
to the Bank such study for review and comments; and (b) not later than
March 1, 1999, introduce a new tariff structure reflecting the results
thereof and Bank's recommendations.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EDL
shall not, for each of its fiscal years following the fiscal year ending
on December 31, 1998, incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of EDL show that the estimated net
revenues of EDL for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least one and one half (1-) times the estimated
Page  4
debt service requirements of EDL for that fiscal year including the
debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EDL maturing
               by its terms more than one year after the date on which
               it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
               contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
               such debt or for the modification of its terms of
               payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into.
        (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                    operations and net non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance,
                    taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                    excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
                    cash operating charges and interest and other
                    charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
               between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources other than those related
                    to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                    taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                    (A) above.
          (v)  The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
               amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments,
               if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
               by EDL not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the
               incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank
               and EDL accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank
               has notified EDL of its acceptability, provided that
               no event has occurred since such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material adverse effect on the financial
               condition or future operating results of EDL.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
               Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
               valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
               lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
               is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
               purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
               such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Bank.
     Section 4.05. EDL shall:
     (a)  prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than October 31 in
each of its Fiscal Years its proposed multi-year investment program
together with a proposed plan for the financing of said investment
program, as they shall have been approved by the Borrower; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with EDL on said investment program and financial plan, and thereafter
Page  5
carry out said investment program, with due diligence and efficiency,
taking into account the Bank's comments on said program and related
financing plan.
                                ARTICLE V
                      Effective Date; Termination;
                      Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of EDL thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify EDL thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI), or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     For EDL:
          Electricit du Liban
          P.O. Box 131
          Rue du Fleuve
          Beirut, Lebanon
                                   Telex:
                                   44834 or
                                   43370
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of EDL may be taken or executed by EDL or such other person or
persons as the Chairman of the Board of EDL shall designate in writing,
and EDL shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
Page  6
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
                                                                President
                    ELECTRICIT DU LIBAN
                    By /s/ Rafic Al-Hariri
                                                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods, including installation thereof, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods, including installation thereof, shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods, including installa-
tion thereof, to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Prequalification
     Bidders for goods shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods, including installation thereof, shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have
Page  7
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods, including installation
thereof, estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms esti-
mated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
