Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6E SZ5 g Z
Report No. 9003-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT FUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
MAY 7, 1991
Sgriculture Operations Division
'ountry Department I
tsia Region
ument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1990)
Currency unit                          -          Taka (Tk)
Tkl.00                                            US$0.0287
US$1.00                                -          Tk 34.9 (Official Rate)
Tk 35.6 (Free Market Wage
Earner's Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)                       -          0.621 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                         -          2.471 acres (ac)
1 horsepower (hp)                      -          0.745 kilowatt (kW)
1 liter per second (l/s)               =          0.035 cubic feet per second
(cusec)
1 metric ton (ton)                     =          2,204.6 pounds (lbs)
1 meter (m)                                       3.28 fooc: (ft)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s)        =          35.31 cubic feet per second
(cusec)
1 millimeter (mm)                                 0.039 inches
ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS AND OTHER TERMS USED
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
ADP       -    Annual Development Program
Aman      -    Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in
November or December
ARCP      -    Agricultural and Rural Credit Project
ASSP      -   Agricultural Support Services Project
Aus       -    Rice planted during March or April and harvested during June or
July
B.        -   When preceding a crop, means broadcast (B. Aman)
BADC      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB        -    Bangladesh Bank
Boro      -    Rice planted in January or February and harvested in May or
June. The term is also used locally for unirrigated rice which
is planted in November or December in the drained out flood
plains
BWDB      -    Bangladesh Water Development Board
CCIE      -    Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
CIF       -    Cost, Insurance and Freight
DAE       -    Department of Agricultural Extension
District  -    Also called by its local name Zilla, which is an administrative
unit comprising a number of Upazillas, in the charge of a
Deputy Commissioner
DSSTW     -    Deep Set Shallow Tubewell
DTW       -    Deep Tubewell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS AND OTHER TERHS USED
EEC       -   European Economic Community
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FCD       -   Flood Control and Drainage
FRR       -   Financial Rate of Return
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GOB       -   Government of Bangladesh
HYV       -   High-Yielding Varieties
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -   International Development Association
IFDC      -   International Fertilizer Distribution Center
IFPRI     -   International Food Policy Research Institute
IPC       -   Import Program Credit
Kharif    -   Summer cropping season (May through November) and comprises
Kharif I (Aus Crop) and Kharif II (Aman Crop)
LCB       -   Local Competitive Bidding
LLP       -   Low Lift Pump
LV        -   Local Variety
MEU       -   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture
Monsoon   -   Period of rains starting in June and ending in October
MOSTI     -   Manually Operated Shallow Tubewell Installation
MP        -   Muriate of Potash
MUV       -   Manufactured Unit Value
NWRPA     -   National Water Resources Planning Agency (formerly
Master Plan Organization, MPO)
NMIDP     -   National Minor Irrigation Development Project
NWP       -   National Water Plan
NGO       -   Non-Governmental Organization
ODA       -   Overseas Development Administration
OMS       -   Open Market Sales
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
PPAR      -   Project Performance Audit Report
Rabi      -   Winter cropping season  (November through March)
SAFE      -   Special Account in Foreign Exchange
SCF       -   Standard C.nversion Factor
STW       -   Shallow Tubewell
T.        -   When preceding a crop, means transplanted (T. Aman)
TSP       -   Triple Superphosphate
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Program
Upazilla  -   Administrative unit of local government
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BANGIDESI
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
tx:        People's Republic of Bangladesh
SDR 52.2 million (US$75.0 million equivalent)
Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity
The project obDjectives are to increase agricultural
Lt-io:    production, income and employment by supporting increased
investment by farmers in simple, low-cost minor irrigation
equipment sold by private equipment dealers under the
Government of Bangladesh's (GOB) liberalized/deregulated
policy framework for private sector-led minor irrigation
development.
By providing a foreign exchange facility to allow private
sector dealers to import small engines for shallow tubewells
and low lift pumps, as -'ell as power tillers, for sale to
farmers, the project is expected to provide over a three-year
period (FY92-94): (a) irrigation for about 340,000 ha of
land using an estimated 75,000 shallow tubewells (STW);
(b) irrigation for approximately 120,000 ha of land using
some 6,000 low lift pumps (LLP); and (c) improved tillage
for around 460,000 ha of land using about 18,000 power
tillers. These numbers are indicative, since the actual
types and quantities of equipment installed will depend on
demand from farmers. Support for these investments will be
provided in the context of consolidating the existing policy
framework for private sector-led minor irrigation
development, and additional liberalization measures in the
closely related areas of fertilizer distribution and
foodgrain marketing. The project will be implemented by GOB
through the Bangladesh Bank (BB) and the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA).
ts:        At full development, the project is expected to result in:
(a) incremental annual foodgrain production of 1.3 million
tons valued at US$240 million; (b) additional annual
employment of 47 million days; and (c) an increase in the
average annual per capita income of some 525,000 farm
families from US$48 to US$78, thereby lifting them above the
poverty line of US$68 per annum.
Risks relate to potential reversals in GOB policy leading to
a contraction of private sector activity and farmer access to
minor irrigation equipment, complementary inputs and output
markets. This risk is addressed through a series of agreed
actions.



il
Estimated Costs:
Local           Foreign     Total Cgst
-------- (US$ million) ------------
Investment Component
Shallow Tubewells                     40.0            40.0           80.0
Low Lift Pumps                         5.8             7.0           12.8
Power Tillers                          0.0            24LA           23A
Subtotal                          45.8            70.4          116.2
Monitoring and Evaluation                   0.0            _Q l            0X1
Base Cost                         45.8            70.5          116.3
Physical Concingencies                 0.0             0.0            0.0
Price Contingencies                    5.9             .la           10.4
Total Projects Cost               II              7.2           126.7"
Financing Plan:PL
Local          Foreign         Tgtal
----------- (US$ million) ---------
GOB                                     0.1             0.0             0.1
Farmers                                51.6             0.0            51.6
IDA                                    0.0             75.0            75.0
Total                                51.7            75.0           126.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                           92          93                            95
------------ (US$ million) ---------------
Annual                      14.0       29.4           23.8            7.8
Cumulative                  14.0       43.4           67.2           75.0
Economic Rate of Return:  over 50X
Ka: IBRD 22593 - Areas Suitable for Shallow Tubewell Development
SA The total cost net of taxes (US$5.8 million) is US$120.9 million.



BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    i
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.  Stru:tura and Performe-nce  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      1
Salient Features .                                          1
Towards a Sectoral Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Government Objectives and Policies . . . . . . . . . . .    3
B.  IDA's Sectoral Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Past Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
Current Program  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
Future Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
II. THE PROJECT
A. General.                                                      8
Evolution and Concept.                                      8
Objectives and Strategy.                                    8
Intended Beneficiaries, Impact on Poor, Women and Landless    8
B. Detailed Features.                                            9
Investment Component.                                       9
Nonitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
C. Environmental Aspects .11
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates .12
B.  Financing Plan and Flow of Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
C. Procurement .13
D. Disbursement .14
E. Accounts and Audit .14
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND INPLEMENTATION
A.    Bangladesh  Bank    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
B.  Participating Banks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
C. Dealers  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
D. Monitoring and Evaluation Unit . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
E.  Project Coordinating Committee   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bangladesh in
June/July 1990. Mission members included Messrs. D. Lister (Task Manager) and
S. Gafsi (IDA), G. Schokman and F. Siddique (Consultants). The report has
been endorsed by Messrs. S. Asanuma (Country Department Director) and
C. Helman (Sector Operations Division Chief). The peer review team comprised
M/M P. Suriyaarachchi, E. Goldstein and M. Mudahar who reviewed the project's
overall policy aspects, foodgrain management actions and investment
considerations, respectively.



hP-g No.
V.  FINANCIAL RETURNS AND FARM INCOME
A.  Financial Returns  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
B.    Farm  Income  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits and Beneficiairies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       20
General  ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
Production Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       20
Employment Benefits  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
Income Distribution and Poverty Alleviation  . . . . . .       20
B. Economic Justification .21
C.  Risks  .    .   .  .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  22
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .       23
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1 Project Cost Summary .12
3.2 Financing Plan by Project Component .13
3.3   Methods of Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
5.1   Summary of Financial Returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
5.2 Sunmary of Annual Farm Budgets .19
6.1  Summary of Economic and Sensitivity Analyses . . . . . . . . .        22
ANNEXESf
1.  Shallow Tubewells  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
2.  Low Lift Pumps   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       30
3.  Power Tillers  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
4.  Action Program for Policy and Institutional Reforms  . . . . .       36
5.  Detailed Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       41
6.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42
7.  Financial and Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       43
8.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  . .       55
A=   - Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         56
- IBRD 22593 - Areas Suitable for Shallow Tubewell Development



BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
I.  SECTORAL BAKRON
A. Structure and Performance
Salient Featusre
1.1         Agriculture in Bangladesh contributes about 50X of GDP, employs
75% of the labor force and generates 602 of the country's export earnings.
Agricultural value added increased at an annual rate of almost 32 during the
period FY81-86. During FY87-89, however, the growth rate fell to 1.72 per
annum, due to a slowdown in irrigation development, the exceptional floods of
1987 and 1988 and a sharp cutback in development expenditures for agriculture
and water resources. Sector growth rebounded in FY90, reaching over 62 per
annum, due to a combination of favorable weather conditions and improved
Government policies. Agricultural production in the crop subsector continues
to be dominated by foodgrains, which account for about 852 of the cultivated
area. Foodgrain production increased at an average rate of 2.62 per year
during FY81-90 (about 0.22 higher than the increase in population during the
same period). About two-thirds of this increase came from irrigated dry
season crops. Reliable irrigation typically increases land productivity by
about 30% during the monsoon season and makes production possible during the
dry season. IDA analysis indicates that an annual increase of the irrigated
area by about 250,000 ha will be required to sustain a 4X-52 annual increase
in foodgrain production.
1.2         The 1986 draft National Water Plan (NWP) estimated that the then
irrigated area of about 2.3 million ha could almost triple using relatively
inexpensive minor irrigation equipment to exploit readily available ground and
surface water resources. About 2.6 million ha amenable to irrigation from
groundwater and 1.2 million ha amenable to irrigation from surface water
remain to be developed. Irrigation using groundwater is being developed
through two principal modes: (i) suction mode pumps, known as shallow
tubewells (STWs), which can be used effectively in areas where the depth of
the static water level is less than six meters; and (ii) force mode pumps,
known as deep tubewells (DTWs) which can lift water from greater depths.
Irrigation using surface water is being developed through low lift pumps
(LLPs), extracting water principally from natural drainage channels and small
streams. In certain cases, the natural supply of water in these channels can
be augmented through regulation of tidal flows, primary pumping from a larger
river/stream using pontoon mounted pumps or improvement in the physical
condition of the drainage channels to allow a greater and more reliable flow
for secondary lifting by LLPs. The investment cost of these minor irrigation
technologies has been in the order of US$250/ha for STWs, US$800/ha for DTWs,
and US$200/ha for LLPs.
1.3       The productivity of investment in minor irrigation equipment can be
greatly enhanced by the use of power tillers and complementary seasonal
inputs, consisting mainly of fertilizer and high-yielding varieties (HYV) of
seeds. Power tillers facilitate speedy land preparation, especially in the
short time available between paddy crops. They also enjoy cost advantages in
comparison with draft animal power, which is becoming increasingly scarce due
to the shortage of land required to raise feed and fodder. After water,
fertilizer is the next most productivity increasing input that farmers can



2
use. HYV seeds require fertilizer, timely cultivation and a regular supply of
water to be fully effective.
Towards a Sectoral Strategy
1.4       Substantial sector work undertaken by IDA over the past two years
in close collaboration with the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and other
donors, and discussed at the 1989 Donors Meeting on Agriculture, chaired by
IDA, has identified the chief constraints to accelerated minor irrigation
developmentlas:
(a) barriers to private sector distribution of minor irrigation
equipment in the form of:
(i)  high customs duties and standardization requirements on
imported equipment and power tillers;
(ii)  siting regulations for equipment;  and
(iii)  high public sector stocks of equipment which have deterred the
private sector from entering the business;
(b) the absence of a well functioning credit system;
(c) limited arcess by the private sector to predominantly imported
triple superphosphate (TSP) and muriate of potash (MP) fertilizers
and HYV seeds which has constrained timely supply to farmers of
these critical inputs; and
(d) excessive reliance on public sector imports of foodgrains and
restrictions on private sector trade in foodgrains which have
reduced producer prices for the main outputs of irrigated
agriculture: rice and wheat.
1.5       With respect to (a) above, the basic problem has been the
preferential treatment afforded to the public sector, consisting mainly of the
parastatal Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), as opposed
to the private sector, made up presently of about 315 traders. Before early
1989, standardized equipment imported largely by the public sector was subject
to a preferential 151 customs duty while non-standardized equipment imported
chiefly by the private sector was subject to a 501 customs duty. Under the
Groundwater Management Ordinance of 1985 and the Groundwater Regulations on
1987, siting of shallow tubewells (STW) in non-surface irrigation areas was
restricted by licensing requirements for new wells and spacing regulations
based on installed capacity criteria, supposedly to prevent encroachment into
existing tubewell command areas. The accumulation by BADC of large stocks
Iv   World Ban       -    Agricultural Sector Note, October 1987.
World Bank      -    Public Expenditures Review, February 1989.
World Bank      -    Selected Issues in Foodgrain Development (Report No.
83',4-BD, dated June 29, 1990)
UNDP            -    Bangladesh Agriculture Sector Review: Bangladesh
Agriculture Performance and Policies, February 1989.



3
consisting of 11,000 STW and 16,000 LLP also discouraged the private sector
from entering the business.
1.6       Concerning (b) above, about 90X of credit requirements for such
investments as STW, LLP and power tillers are met from informal, non-
institutional sources, and this zituation is not likely to change in the
medium term because of the problems of recovery, etc. This means that the
institutional credit system is not a very effective channel for outside
assistance in support of these important investments, and that alternative
delivery systems have to be found if minor irrigation development is not to be
deprived of funds.
1.7       Regarding (c) above, farmer access to fertilizers has been
handicapped by the large unit subsidies on TSP and MP fertilizers distributed
by the public sector which have reduced the incentive for the private sector
to purchase and distribute these fertilizers to farmers.
1.8       As for (d) above, foodgrain importing is dominated by GOB which has
tended to overestimate requirements. The private sector is only allowed to
import when the Public Food Distribution System cannot ensure adequate
supplies (e.g. in time of natural calamities). Until recently, the private
sector was also not allowed to store grains beyond certain minimal levels due
to anti-hoarding and grain holding regulations. There were also restrictions
on credit for the acquisition of storage facilities. These factors have
combined to limit marketir-, opportunities for foodgrains and depress producer
prices.
Government Obiectives and Policies
1.9       Influenced by the findings of the above sector work, GOB, with
donor support, has developed a minor irrigation based development strategy for
the agricultural sector for the next 10-15 years. As part of this strategy,
it aims to liberalize the trade and regulatory framework for minor irrigation
development with a view to allowing a larger role for market forces and
private initiatives.
1.10      In pursuit of these objectives and policies, GOB embarked on a long
overdue program of liberalization, deregulation and privatization designed to
remove the constraints to private sector involvement in minor irrigation
development. Customs duties and standardization requirements on small
imported engines suitable for the operation of STW and LLP were suspended, as
were regulations govlerning the siting of STWs and LLPs. This led to a sharp
increase in demand from farmers for STWs and LLPs. According to the latest
available (June 1989) Census of Minor Irrigation Equipment conducted by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the number of STWs and LLPs grew each by more
than 22X from 1988 to 1989: in the case of STW, from about 188,000 to 230,000
(Annex 1); and in the case of LLP, from 45,000 to 55,000 (Annex 2).
Tentative figures for 1990 indicate a further growth of 21X for STWs and 18X
for LLPs. Customs duties and standardization regulations for power tillers
were also suspended, after whici investments rose by 400X, from some 1,700 in
1988/89 to 7,000 in 1989/90 (Annex 3). Privately owned workshops have also
sprung up in many villages to repair and maintain this equipment, raising the
prospect of a self-sustaining development process which will eventually take
over from ongoing public sector projects and become irreversible. GOB is now
eager to consolidate these reforms and to complete the transition to the new,



4
more liberalized regime. However, it is concerned about its ability to
finance the foreign exchange cost o& i*he increased private investments in
minor irrigation equipment and power tillers estimated at over US$30.0 million
per year. Financed largely from farmers' savings and/or non-institutional
credit, which has traditionally provided 90X of credit requirements, they are
not directly supported by any donor assistance program. Donor assistance i8
now required so that the private sector can meet the increased demand for STW,
LLP and power tillers, sales of which are presently handled on a competitive
basis by about 315 private equipment dealers located mainly in Dhaka,
Chittagong and other cities and towms throughout the country.
1.11      With assistance from the International Fertilizer Distribution
Center (IFDC), financed by the United States Agency for International
Development JSAID), GOB has also been reforming its fertilizer marketing
policies in order to create a less distorted business environment for the
private sector. Among the recent measures taken was allowing the private
sector to procure urea directly from the factories and removing restrictions
on fertilizers imports.  The major obstacle now to increased private sector
distribution and greater farmer access is the remaining subsidies on TSP and
MP.
1.12      With help from the International Food Policy Research Institute
(IFPRI), financed by the USAID, GOB is also currently reexamining the legal
and regulatory framework for foodgrain marketing with a view to ailowing a
larger role for market forces and private initiatives.W Already GOB has
taken several important steps in this direction including subjecting
commercial foodgrain imports to a special clearance procedure, removing
obstacles to private sector foodgrain storage, including restrictions on
credit for storage purposes and anti-hoarding and grain holding regulations.
B. IDA's Sectoral Strat&gy
Past Operations
1.13      Since 1972, IDA has approved 37 credits to Bangladesh for
agricultural development totalling US$843.2 million, net of cancellations.
Significant lessons have been learneA' from tho implementationt o,. previous
projects which supported minor irrigation development and agricultural policy
reform, and these have been reflected in the design of the proposed project.
Lessons learned from implementing the Agricultural Credit Project (Credit
1147-BD),V which supported inter alia investment in STW, include the need to
ensure adequate maintenance and repair facilities for STWs. This is addressed
under the proposed project through the eligibility criteria for private
vI   IDA has also initiated a review of the Government's food policy to
ensure that it is consistent with sustained growth in agriculture and
that it effectively alleviates food insecurity among the poor. The
review will address inter ala: (i) producer and consumer pric_..ng
policy; (ii) incentives for foodcrop processing and marketing;
(iii) international trade policy; (iv) food aid policy; and
(v) subsidized rationing programs.
vI   A Project Completion Report (PCR) for this project has been prepared
(Report No. 8581, dated April 30, 1990).



5
equipment dealer access to project funds (pars 4.4), one of which requires the
dealers to import equipmient with warranties, and provide those warranties to
farmers. Experience in implementing the ongoing DTW II Project (Cr. 1287-BD)
demonstrated the need to reduce subsidies on DTW technology and liberalize the
policy and institutional environment for private sector distribution of minor
irrigation equipment. While the subsidized DTWs were to be lirited to areas
unsuitable to STWs, in fact they proliferated throughout the country at great
fiscal and ecenomia cost, thereby discouraging the introduction of more
affordable and manageable STW and LLP technology. The subsidy also prevented
private sector participation and investment in the supply of DTWV, cre.ting a
public sector monopoly. The DTW subsidy will be eliminated under the National
Minor Irrigation Development Project (para. 1.15). Lessons learned f.om the
execution of Import Program Credits (IPC) IX-XIIIW also highlight the need to
liberalize the policy and institutional environment for distribution of minor
irrigation equipment in order to permit a larger role for the private sector in
the sale and servicing of minor irrigation equipment and to allow farmers to
choose the equipment best suited to their specific agronomic, hydrological and
economic circumstances. They also draw attention to the need to complete the
transition to a fully deregulated and privatized marketing system for fertilizer
distribution, where private distributors would be allowed to operate without
being undercut by Government subsidies. The need to improve foodgrain
marketing, notably through a larger role for the private sector in foodgrain
storage was also emphasized. These issues will be addressed under the propcsed
project.
Current Program
1.14      IDA lending to Bangladesh has emphasized the agricultural sector,
particularly developing water resources, strengthening agricultural services,
and developing complementary infrastructure. Consistent with GOB's priorities,
inc.eased production of foodgrains has been the main target of IDA's lending in
agriculture. Ongoing IDA-supported projects include:
Agricultural Extension II                         (Cr. 1215-BD)
Rural Development II                              (Cr. 1384-BD)
Deep Tubewells II                                 (Cr. 1287-BD)
Bangladesh Water Development Board                (Cr. 1467-BD)
(BWDB) Small Schemes
Agricultural Research II                          (Cr. 1455-BD)
Flood Control and Drainage (FCD) III and IV       (Cr. 1591 and 1784-BD)
Shrimp Culture                                    (Cr. 1651-BD)
Forestry II                                       (Cr. 1634-BD)
Small-Scale Flood Control and Drainage II         (Cr. 1870-BD)
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation                       (Cr. 2099-BD)
Third Fisheries                                   (Cr. 2146-BD).
Damage repair works on water control infrastructure following the floods of 1987
and 1988 are being financed by IDA under the Flood Rehet)ilitation II and III
Projects (Cr. 1876-BD and 2048-BD, respectively) and under the Small Scale Flood
Control and Drainage Project (Cr. 1870-BD). IDA is assisting GOB in developing
MI   A Program Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has been prepared for these
five projects (Report No. 8871, dated June 29, 1990).



6
a basis for policy formulation through sector work and special studies. In
addition, IDA is the Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed NWP Project, which
entered its second phase in 1988. Finally, IDA has helped formulate an Action
Plan for Flood Control and is chairing a panel of experts to oversee the
implementation of a series of studies which will generate information
necessary to formulate policies and projects required to protect Bangladesh
against lisastrous floods, and to effectively utilize natural resources.
Future Lending Strategy
1.15      GOB, in close collaboration with IDA and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), has developed a list of investments and input requirements linked to an
Action Provr;rm for Policy and Institutional Reforms for the minor irrigation
subsector (Annex 4) covering minor irrigation equipment and power tillers,
complementary inputs, foodgrain management and institutional reform. ADB is
supporting this package with a quick-disbursing Foodcrops Development Program
Loan financing a broad positive list of agricultural equipment and inputs.
IDA plans to support the policy and investment program through four proposed
projects designed to meet the specific investment needs associated with the
program. These are:
(a) the project described in this report which will finance simple, low
cost investments by farmers in STWs, LLPs and power tillers, sold
"off the shelf" for cash by private dealers, without any public
sector involvement in their installation/delivery or operation;
(b) the National Minor Irrigation Development Project (NMIDP) which
will finance mainly the more complex and expensive DTWs, which
require organization of farmer groups, technical assistance and
public sector support in the initial stages; while the procurement
and installation of this equipment will initially be led by the
public sector, the project will create the environment necessary
for private sector involvement and make it possible for the latter
to supply most of the DTWs by the end of the project;
(c) the Agricultural and Rural Credit Project (ARCP) which will focus
on improving the performance of the agricultural credit
institutions and finance institutional credit for a wide range of
agricultural investments, including investments by farmers in minor
irrigation equipment and power tillers; while presently
institutional credit accounts for only a small share of these
investments (about 10 based on past experience), its relative
importance could increase in the future if the performance of the
credit institutions improves.h; and
2    Apart from "Selected Issues in Foodgrain Development" (para 1.4), IDA
has completed a "Fisheries Sector Review" (Report No. 8830-BD, dated
August 31, 1990).
Of   However, initially the improvements will involve a much stricter
treatment of credit applications and may result in a decline in the
volume of credit.



7
(d)  the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) which will finance
intX ali extension activities of HOA to improve water management,
seed supply and crop diversification.
The NMIDP will be cofinanced by the European Economic Community (EEC). The
ARCP will be financed jointly with ADB, with USAID financing the technical
assistance component. ODA will finance the technical assistance requirements
of the ASSP.
1.16      Since the success of the Government's private sector-led minor
irrigation development strategy hinges on the maintenance by the public sector
of the supportive policy environment, which has already been agreed to by GOB,
IDA and ADB, the proposed project will provide for the continuation and
refinement of the new policy framework for minor irrigation development based
on STW, LLP and power tillers. It will also support additional measures to
liberalize fertilizer distribution which is vital for the continued
productivity of investments in minor irrigation. The NMIDP will support
reforms related to DTW development; the ARCP, reforms pertaining to credit;
and the ASSP, reforms concerning seed supply.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.17      IDA has worked closely with GOB to formulate and introduce policy
measures aimed at liberalizing the trade and siting of minor irrigation
equipment. The experience IDA has acquired over the years in the context of
policy dialogue and through past projects in support of minor irrigation gives
it a comparative advantage among donors in providing effective support to GOB
in implementing of this project. In addition, IDA's financing of this project
will support deepenirg the liberalization process in the areas of fertilizer
and foodgrain marketing which are important components of the sectoral reform
agenda pursued by IDA in its policy dialogue with GOB since the early
1980s21. The proposed project will also provide an opportunity for IDA to
make a contribution in an area of special emphasis: private sector
development.
ZJ   See "Bangladesh - Review of Experience with Policy Reform in the 1980s"
(Report No. 8874, dated June 29, 1990).



8
II. THE P2QJECT
A. General
Evolution and ConceRt
2.1       The project was identified in the course of sector work undertaken by
IDA and other donors in close collaboration with GOB over the past two years.
This sector work highlighted the need to allow a greater role for the private
sector in the distribution of minor irrigation and related equipment (para 1.5).
One way for IDA to support private sector distribution of minor irrigation
equipment is through the institutional credit system, and this will be done
through the APCP. However, as noted above (para 1.6), most of farmers,
investment is for cash provided by savings and/or the informal credit system
which covers 90X of credit requirements. The proposed project has been designed
to support these cash investments. The project was prepared by GOB with
assistance from IDA and ADB during the period October 1989 to February 1990.
Preappraisal of the project was carried out in March/April 1990 by a joint
IDA/ADB team. The project was appraised in June/July 1990.
Obiectives and Strategv
2.2       The project is intended to promote agricultural production, income and
employment by supporting increased investment by farmers in simple, low cost
minor irrigation equipment and power tillers sold for cash by private equipment
dealers under GOB's liberalized/deregulated policy framework for private sector
led minor irrigation development. It will accomplish this by providing a
foreign exchange facility to allow private equipment dealers to import small
engines of up to 20 hp for STW and LLP, as well as power tillers. Monitoring
and evaluation of these activities, including the establishment of and operation
of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) in the Ministry of Agriculture, will
also be provided. The project will cover the entire country except areas having
saline groundwater (see Map IBRD No. 22593), thereby complementing the proposed
NMIDP which will concentrate on areas where only the more complex DTW technology
can be used due to the relatively deep aquifer (para 1.2). The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
2.3       To sustain the demand from farmers for STW, LLP and power tillers, the
present policy and institutional framework for private sector-led minor
irrigation development needs to be consolidated. This requires a commitment by
GOB to: (a) keep customs duties low on imported minor irrigation equipment and
power tillers; (b) maintain the removal of restrictive standardization and
siting regulations; and (c) dispose of public sector stocks of STW and LLP. It
also requires a supportive policy and institutional environment for the
distribution by the private sector of complementary inr.uts, particularly
fertilizer and seed, and for the marketing by the private sector of the main
outputs of irrigated agriculture, rice and wheat.
Intended Beneficiaries. Impact on Poor. Women and Landless
2.4       The project will directly benefit farm families using STW, LLP and
power tillers, but its indirect benefits will also be very significant. Besides
the direct production benefits, the increased level of economic activity
resulting from the project is expected to benefit the poor, including poor women
and the landless poor, by creating additional employment opportunities for
unskilled and semi-skilled labor in weeding and harvesting. It is also
anticipated that some landless entrepreneurs will operate power tillers on a for
hire basis. By increasing the supply of water, stimulating competition and



9
generating lower water rates, the project will contribute to the reduction of
"waterlordism," whereby farmers with access to water have exploited other
farmers without such access.
B. Detailed Features
Investment Component
2.5       Over the three-year period, FY92-94 (see Chart), the project will
support investment by farmers in:
(a) an estimated 75,000 STW to irrigate some 340,000 ha of land;
(b) about 6,000 LLP to irrigate around 120,000 ha of land; and
(c) about 18,000 power tillers to cultivate approximately 460,000 ha.
2.6       Since the investment decision will rest with the farmer, the numbers
of STW, LLP and power tillers are indicative.  The project will support these
investments while consolidating th existing policy framework for private
sector-led minor irrigation develoement, as well as additional reforms in the
closely related area of complementary inputs supply which are important for
project success.
2.7       Shallow Tubewells (base cost US$80.0 million).  As indicated above
(paras 1.2 and 2.2), STW offer a low cost solution to irrigation development
based on available groundwater in most parts of Bangladesh (Annex 1). STW are
typically hand-drilled tubewells, cased with a 75 mm diameter galvanized iron
pipe which is slotted against aquifer material, and equipped with centrifugal
pumps normally powered by under 10 hp diesel engines. They yield about 14 l/s.
The STW has the pump unit mounted at land surface and can pump water at levels
down to about 6 m below land surface. To pump water at levels down to about 9 m
below land surface, STW may be mounted in a sump about 3 m deep, in which case
they are referred to as deep-set shallow tubewells (DSSTW).
2.8       The demand for STW is estimated at about 45,000 per annum, including
replacements. Ongoing and planned programs supported by GOB and donors are
expected to provide financing for about 20,000 STW per year. This will leave a
funding gap for the remaining 25,000 STW per annum, or a total of 75,000 over
three years to be filled by the project.
2.9       Low Lift PumRs (base cost US$12.8 million).  Even less expensive per
ha than STW (para 1.2), LLP may be installed on any accessible source of water,
either flowing or static, to lift water onto land for irrigation (Annex 2). The
most common pump units have been of 56 1/s capacity, though a considerable
number of 28 l/s pumps have been fielded. Almost all of the pumps are powered
by diesel engines. The command area assumed for 56 l/s pumps is 20 ha.
2.10      An analysis of the potential for minor irrigation development based on
LLP carried out for the appraisal of the NMIDP, and reviewed for the present
project, indicates that surplus water flows on minor to medium river systems
(i.e., other than the Ganges, Brahmaputra, Padma and Lower Meghna) could be
developed to serve about 360,000 ha, using an estimated 18,000 LLP, including
replacements. Programs are underway and others are planned to provide primary
supplies for about 2,000 LLP per annum or a total of 6,000 LLP over the next
three years. The project will provide for these LLP which are not covered by
any other donor assistance program.



10
2.11      Power Tillers (base cost US$23.4 million).  Demand for power tillers
is currently running at about 7,000 per annum or 21,000 over the three-year life
of the project. Since an estimated 3,000 power tillers are expected to be
financed from other sources, including some 2,000 under the ARCP, the project
will provide funding for the remaining 18,000.
2.12      As indicated above (para 2.3), the current liberalized/deregulated
policy and institutional framework for private sector distribution of STW, LLP
and power tillers needs to be sustained for the project supported investments to
materialize. To this end, aereements were obtained at negotiations that GOB
will:
(a) ensure that customs duty and tariff on imported engines of up to 20 hp
for use in minor irrigation equipment, as well as on power tillers, do
not exceed the rate of 5S of their free on board (FOB) value;
(b) abolish and thereafter not institute standardization requirements on
imported minor irrigation equipment; and
(c) abolish and thereafter not institute restrictions on siting of
tubewells in non-surface irrigation areas.
2.13      On instructions from GOB, BADC has disposed of approximately 16,000
STW/LLP, representing about half of its original stock of 27,000 units. At
negotiations, an agreement was obtained that GOB will require BADC to sell or
otherwise dispose of its entire stock of STW/LLP, including spare parts, by
March 31, 1992 through direct sales to farmers or auction to private dealers,
and thereafter to refrain from further purchases of STW/LLP.
2.14      Given the importance of improved fertilizer and foodgrain marketing
for the productivity of investment in minor irrigation equipment, agreements
were also obtained at negotiations that GOB will:
(a) remove all restrictions on fertilizer imports (TSP, HP and urea);
(b) ensure that all contracts for commercial import of foodgrain are
awarded on the basis of open international tender; and
(c) abolish and thereafter not institute any restrictions on credit for
storage of foodgrain and take steps to facilitate foodgrain storage by
the private sector.
2.15      As part of its fertilizer market liberalization program, GOB recently
reviewed the ex-factory price of urea and found it to be at world market levels.
In addition, agreements were obtained at negotiations that GOB will:
(a) abolish at least 30X of subsidies on TSP and MP fertilizers as a
condition of effectiveness;
(b) abolish at least 60X of such subsidies by October 31, 1991;
(c) abolish 1001 of the subsidies by March 31, 1992; and
(d) thereafter not directly or indirectly subsidize fertilizer prices.
I



11
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.16      To assist GOB in monitoring and evaluating the project, a project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU), consisting of a locally recruited
economist and support staff, has been set up in MOA. The economist has been
appointed. The MEU will be equipped with a vehicle, a personal computer and
other office equipment (e.g. a copier), and will coordinate its operation with
the extensive monitoring and evaluation activities to be carried out under the
NMIDP. Evaluation of project results will be contracted out to consultants, for
which a provision of eight staff months, estimated to cost US$100,000 in total,
has been included in the project cost. The consultants qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to IDA.
GOB approval of the Proforma for the carrying out this part of the project will
be a condition of effectiveness.
C. Environmental Aspects
2.17      An Environmental Assessment for this and the three other  agricultural
projects (NMIDP, ASSP and ARCP) was carried out by an independent team
commissioned by ODA and IDA&'. It concluded that overall the project would
have major societal benefits, but that there were negative environmental impacts
which could develop as follows: seasonal aquifer drawdown could temporarily
impact on other groundwater uses, including drinking water wells; ground and
surface water could become contaminated due to increased use of agro-chemicals;
and saline intrusion into groundwater aquifers and surface water channels could
increase. For reasons of economy and efficiency, these and other environmental
issues will be addressed together under the NMIDP and ASSP where the necessary
staff resources will also be provided. Specifically, these operations will
address: (a) establishment of a monitoring system to quickly identify excessive
abstraction of groundwater which might jeopailize sustainability of groundwater
development; (b) establishment of a basis for assessing agro-chemical
concentrations in soil and water to identify and correct potential hazards; (c)
rehabilitation of domestic water supply wells affected by the project; (d)
exclusion of the coastal area from the groundwater development program to
prevent salinity intrusion; and (e) inclusion of control structures in channels
to limit saline intrusion.
PJ   An Environmental Assessment of Four Agricultural Projects in Bangladesh
(December 1990), a report prepared by Environmental Resources Limited.



12
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.1      The total project cost is estimated at Tk 4.4 billion (US$126.7
million equivalent), including a foreign exchange component of US$75.0 million
equivalent, or 59X of the total cost (Table 3.1). This cost estimate is based
on February 1991 prices.
3.2      The project cost includes US$5.8 million equivalent in taxes.  There
are no physical contingencies. If farmer demand for STW, LLP and power tillers
is higher than anticipated, this will be reflected in a shorter project
implementation period. Farmer demand for the project investment items has been
estimated on the basis of current levels, as confirmed by recent survey data
from MOA (para 1.10). Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of World
Bank projections of international price increases of 3.6X per annum, and the
following rates of local inflation: 8.0X in FY92; 7.0X in FY93; and 6.01
thereafter. Annex 5 presents the detailed cost estimates by nature and purpose
of expenditure.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMHARYSt
(million)
TAKA                USS                % Total
--------------------------------   ---------------------------   5 Foreign  Sase
Local    Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign    Total  Exchonge  Costs
A. INVESTMENT COM4PONENT
1. SHALLOW TUBEWELLS  1,395.9  1.395.9    2,791.8  40.0  40.0  60.0  60.0  66.8
2. LOW LIFT PUMPS   201.0  245.7  446.7  5.8  7.0  12.8    55.0  11.0
3. POWER TILLERS      0.0  817.4  817.4  0.0  23.4  23.4  100.0  20.1
Sub-Total            1,596.9    2,459.0    4,056.0  45.8  70.4    116.2  60.6  99.9
S. MONITORING & EVALUATION  0.6  3.8  4.6  0.0  0.1  0.1     82.2  0.1
Total BASELINE COSTS  1,597.7    2,462.6    4,060.5  456S  70.5    116.3   60.7  100.0
physical Contingencies  00   .0.0        .0    .0   .0.0         0.
Price Contingencies  204.5  155.4  360.0  5.9  4 5  10 4   43 2  , 6.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS  1,602.3    2,618.2    4,420.6  51.7  75.0    126.7  69.2  108.9
..................  ................ .... ...... ..........  ................  ........................... 
f Figures may not add due to rounding.
B. Financing Plan and Flow of Funds
3.3      The IDA credit of SDR 52.2 million (US$75.0 million equivalent)
will finance 621 of the total project costs, excluding taxes. Except for
US$100,000 to support the operations of the MEU, the IDA credit will be
channelled through the Bangladesh Bank (BB) which will establish a foreign
exchange facility on which eligible private equipment dealers, operating
through their commercial banks, will be able to draw to finance the
importation of small engines for assembly into STW and LLP and power tillers
for sale to farmers. Onlending arrangements are not applicable, since the
transactions between farmers, dealers, and the dealers'. commercial banks will
be on a cash basis, and the commercial banks will deposit the Taka received
from the dealers simultaneously with the disbursement of IDA funds to foreign
equipment suppliers. Farmers will finance the local costs of the project
investments estimated at US$52.0 million, and GOB will finance the local costs
of monitoring and evaluation estimated at US$50,000. Table 3.2 summarizes the
project financing plan by component.



13
Table 3k2: FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENTAt
(US$ million)
IDA     Goverr ent  Farmers    total        Local
-----------------------------------------------.-- For.    IExet.   Duties
Amount  .   Amount    Amount  .  Amount  %.  Exeh.   aexes )   Txa.
w~~~~~~~~..  0............................
14VESTMENT COMPONENT  74.9    59.2  0.0  0.t  81.6    40.8    126.5    99.9  74.9  45.8  5.8
MONITORING & EVALUATION  0.1    67.0  0.0L  33.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0
Total Disbursement  7. .0    59.2  O.Ob/   0.0  61.6    40.6    126.7   10.0  78.0  48.6  8.6
........................ 0................
Figures may not add due to rounding.
USS5o.0oo does not appear due to rounding.
C. Procurement
3.4      Procurement of the STW, LLP and power tillers to be provided under the
project will be done by private equipment dealers following established
commercial practices. With some 315 private dealers located in Dhaka and
Chittagong, as well as other cities and towns throughout the country (para 1.10),
competing for farmers, business in a liberalized policy framework, the market for
project supported equipment is economic and efficient, and may be relied upon to
produce reasonable prices. However, to ensure competition for large import
orders, any single contract estimated to cost US$1.0 million or more will be
procured by ICB. ICB procurement, if any, will be subject to prior IDA review.
In addition, on an annual basis, IDA supervision missions will conduct an ex-post
review of a reasonable sample of the transactions entered into by three dealers.
The equipment for MEU will be procured by MOA using local shopping procedures.
Consultants for monitoring and evaluation with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA will be selected by MOA in
accordance with the procedures set out in "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency."
Table 3.3 METHODS OF PROCUREMENTIL
(US$ Million)
Project Element                        ICB     Othe_rL   Total
Investment Component
Shallow Tubewells                        -        87.6    87.6
(42.5)  (42.5)
Low Lift Pumps                                    14.0    14.0
(7.5)   (7.5)
Power Tillers                            -        24.9    24.9
(24.9)  (24.9)
Monitoring and Evaluation                    -         0.1      0.1
_     ~~~(O .1)   (O .1)
TOTAL                             -        126.7   126.7
(75.0)   (75.0)
^./ Figures may not add due to rounding. Figures in parentheses are amounts to
be financed by IDA.
k/ Includes established commercial practices, local shopping and consultants
selection procedures.



14
D. Disbursement
3.5       Disbursements will be made against lOOX of the CIF price of
imported equipment and lOOX of consultants' services. It is expected that the
proposed credit will be fully disbursed within three and a half years (Annex
6). The project closing date will be December 31, 1994. The disbursement
profile for projects in support of water resources development in Bangladesh
is nine years, but this is based on complex operations planned for
implementation by public sector agencies over a 5-7 year period. These have
little in common with the proposed project which is simple in nature. A
Special Account in Foreign Exchange (SAFE), with an initial deposit of US$7.0
million equivalent, representing four months requirements, will be established
in the BB. It will be used both by the private dealers, acting through their
commercial banks, on a "first come, first served" basis, to provide irrigation
equipment and power tillers to farmers, and by MOA to equip MEU. Withdrawals
from the special account will be on the basis of actual eligible expenditures.
Withdrawals under statement of expenditure (SOE) procedures will be permitted
for equipment contracts with a value of less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Withdrawal applications for import contracts amounting to an aggregate of
US450,000 or more will be fully documented.  Supporting documents for
withdrawal applications under SOE procedures will be retained by BB for review
by IDA representatives. The special account will be replenished by IDA on the
basis of withdrawal applications prepared by BB.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.6       BB and MOA will maintain separate accounts for project expenditures
in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles and
practices. The accounts, including the special account in BB (para 3.5) and
SOE accounts, will be audited annually by the Comptroller and Auditor General
of GOB, or other independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of
the audit report, including a separate opinion on SOE accounts, will be
furnished to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.



15
IV. ORGANIZATION AND IMPMENTATION
4.1       The project will be implemented by GOB through BB and MOA.  BB will
have primary responsibility for facilitating the flow of funds in support of
project activities. This will entail close collaboration with Participating
Banks who will be handling the financial transactions associated with the
Dealers' activities, including opening letters of credit with the banks of
foreign equipment suppliers. MOA will be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation. Implementation of the policy measures supported by the project
(paras 7.1-7.2) will be the responsibility of an inter-ministerial Project
Coordinating Committee (para 4.6), chaired by the Secretary of MOA.
A. Bangladesh Bank
4.2       BB will administer the foreign exchange facility (special account)
on which participating banks will draw to finance letters of credit opened on
behalf of Dealers for the importation of project financed equipment for sale
to farmers. Within BB, the Exchange Control Department will manage the
special account. To launch the project, and as a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit, BB will issue to participating banks a model
Participation Instrument and a model Dealer Agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
along with a description of the procedures under which the proceeds of the
Credit will be made available to finance project investment expenditures.
B. Participating Banks
4.3       To participate in the project, Participating Banks will be required
to sign a Participation Instrument with BB on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, and an agreement to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. Under the Participation Instrument, the participating banks
will:
(a)  provide the following documents to BB when applying for iz,eign
exchange from project funds:
(i) all standard documents required by BB for opening letters of
credit;
(ii) copies of all documents furnished by the Dealer in accordance
with the standard requirements of the Participating Bank,
including shipping documents; and
(iii) a copy of the Dealer Agreement signed by the Dealer (para 4.4);
(b)  at the time when the foreign supplier's bank is paid in foreign
exchange from project funds, pay BB the equivalent in Taka; and
(c)  be disqualified from the use of project funds if found in non-
compliance with the Participating Instrument by MEU or IDA, or
having failed to enforce any Dealer Agreement to which it is a
party.



16
C. DealeXs
4.4       Dealers wishing to participate in the project will be required to
sign a Dealer Agreement with the Participating Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, and an agreem2nt to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. Under the Dealer Agreement, the dealers will:
(a) provide evidence to the Participating Bank of the procurement
procedures followed (to ensure compliance with agreed procurement
procedures);
(b) limit the sale of small engines and power tillers to farmers who
will use them in the irrigation and cultivation of land (to reduce
the risk of units being sold for non-Project purposes);
(c) import small engines and power tillers having due regard for
economy and efficiency on the basis of reasonable prices (to avoid
misuse of funds);2/
(d) import only small engines and power tillers having at least six
month warranties and provide those warranties to farmers, including
any applicable after sales service (to ensure the availability of
spare parts and repair and maintenance facilities);
(e) keep a list of the farmers to whom engines and power tillers are
sold (to provide a basis for monitoring the end use of the
equipment);
(f) permit the inspection of the documents listed in para 4.3(a) above
by the Participating Bank, MEU and IDA; and
(g) be disqualified from applying for further letters of credit under
the Project if found to be in breach of the Dealer Agree. srt by the
Participating Bank, MEU or IDA.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
4.5       The MEU has recently been established in MOA (para 2.16).  In
particular, it will monitor:
(a) compliance with Participation Instruments and Dealer Agreements;
(b) price at which equipment under the Project is sold to farmers;
(c) use of equipment sold to farmers to ensure that it is used for the
purposes of the Project.
2/   In practice, the prices of imported equipment will be checked by the
Participating Banks as part of the approval process for opening letters
of credit. To assist them in this task, MEU will provide them with
import price data on a half yearly basis. IDA supervision missions will
also check that the prices of equipment imported under the proiect are
consistent with prevailing import prices.



17
An agreement to this effect was obtained at negotiations. MEU will also
monitor the effects of irrigation on the resource base (e.g., groundwater
Abstraction, levels of groundwater pollution, and effects on potable water
supplies and fisheries). Problems will be brought to the attention of the
Secretary of MOA in his capacity as Chairman of the Project Coordinating
Committee. Not later than December 31, 1992, GOB will review with IDA the
implementation of the project, and promptly thereafter take all actions
required as a result of the review.  An AgSn=U= to this offect was obtained
at negotiations. Towards the end of the project, consulta..ts selected by the
MEU will undertake a study evaluating the project's resulte, including inter
AU& the costs and benefits (areas irrigated, yields and production obtained,
farm families involved, employment created, etc.). The MEU will also prepare:
(a) semi-annual progress reports in a format satisfactory to IDA; and (b) the
GOB section of the Project Completion Report (PCR) in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
E. Project Coordinating Committee
4.6       An inter-ministerial Project Coordinating Committee has been
established to ensure timely implementation of the policy actions included in
the project (paras 7.1-7.2), most of which go beyond the authority of any one
ministry. The Committee, which will meet quarterly and at other times as
required, will be chaired by the Secretary of MOA and include representatives
of the Ministries of Plan.ning, Finance (Economic Relations Division), and
Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control, as well as BB.



18
V. FINANCIAL RETURNS AND FARM INCOME
A. Financial Returns
5.1       Based on experience from ongoing minor irrigation projects for
which financial and other data are available, an analysis has been undertaken
to assess the probable returns from investment in STW, LLP and power tillers.
Details of the analysis are given in Annax 7 and are summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RETURNS
Investment   Present Cash   Inflow with   Increm-      FRR
Equipment         Cost         Inflow         Project      ental       (M)
---------   .......................... Taka.
STW              34,900        33,116        62,708       29,592       39
LLP              69,800        82,790       174,250       91,460       60
Power Tiller     41,880       184,939       416,762      231,823       59
5.2       Cash profiles for all equipment types show that beneficiaries,
total net cash inflow with the project would increase significantly.
Financial ratos of return to all resources used in the production activities
would be high: about 39X for STW; 60% for LLP; and 59X for power tillers.
The investments would clearly be attractive to farmers.
B. Farm Income
5.3       The impact of the project on annual farm income has been analyzed
on the basis of representative farm budgets for a 1 ha farm size. This model
primarily reflects the situations of with and without irrigation facilities
and an average cropping pattern for all the agro-ecological zones of
Bangladesh.
5.4       Because of a lack of reliable data on off-farm and other
agricultural incomes, only crop production activities have been taken into
account in estimating farm income. Specific cropping patterns, yields and
input requirements used for the analysis are presented in Annex 7, Tables 1
and 2. The prices used in the financial analysis are given in Anrex 7, Table
3.
5.5       The analysis of the farm model reveals that the investments
supported by the project would have a pronounced impact on the incomes of farm
families. This would mainly come from the higher cropping intensities,
changes in the cropping pattern and more intensive cultural practices.
Analysis of the indicative farm budgets show that a farm of 1 ha size with the
introduction of irrigation could expect to increase its average annual income
from farming from about Tk 8,300 to Tk 14,500, an increase of 75X. Details of
the farm model analysis are in Annex 7 and summarized in Table 5.2.



19
Table 5.2: SUMMARY OF ANNUAL FARM BUDGETS
Future
without     Future wlth
Project       Proie:t          Increment
Farm Area (ha)
Net                            1.00          1.00                  --
Cropped                        1.36          1.66               0.30
Cropping Intensity (%)            136           166                30
..................    ...................
Gross Value of Production         12,713        27,116             14,403
Cost of Production                 4,434        12,602              8,168
Net Value of Production            8,279        14,514              6,235
Percentage Change                     --             -                +75
5.6       The farm budget analysis reveals that irrigation plays the dominant
role in increasing farm income. It also reflects the high potential
productivity of irrigated agriculture and its immediate effect on crop yields.
It has been assumed that irrigation development would take place over a period
of three years before reaching full development, and that the farmers would
also adopt the recommended level of inputs within this period.



20
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
General
6.1       The project will increase agricultural production, income and
employment by reducing the risks of cultivation on about 460,000 ha of land
through irrigation. The direct beneficiaries will be an estimated 525,000
farm families. The overall impact of the project in terms of increased
agricultural production, employment generation and farm families benefitted at
full development is summarized below:
Summary of Proiect Impact at Full Development
Total Area to Benefit                       ha         460,000
Total Farm Families to Benefit              no         525,000
Annual Incremental Foodgrain Production    tons        1.3 million
Annual Incremental Agricultural Employment days        46.7 million
Production Benefits
6.2       At full development, the project will raise foodgrain production
from project farms by about 1.3 million tons per annum, an increase of about
242X over the "without project" production. This will rbduce Bangladesh's
need to import foodgrains by the same amount. Paddy is estimated to be about
91X of this incremental production. The value of the annual incremental
production at farmgate economic prices in 1990 constant terms will be about Tk
8,400 million (US$240 million).
EtmloyMent Benefits
6.3       Against the background of extensive unemployment and
underemployment in Bangladesh, the project will create substantial additional
employment. The total demand for labor will increase from 172 days/ha to 284
days/ha at full development, an increase of 651. This increase will result
from adoptior. of transplanted HYV of Aman paddy, an increase in the area of
HYV Boro paddy and wheat, an increase in the cropping intensity, more
intensive care of crops and higher labor needs for harvesting. These
inc:reased labor requirements will reduce the present high level of
unemployment and underemployment in rural areas. Agricultural laborers, small
farmers and women will benefit from an increased labor demand and from
off-farm employment opportunities generated by the project due to increased
demand for marketing, transportation and processing.
Income Distribution and Poverty Alleviation
6.4       The project will result in a substantial reduction in the incidence
of poverty. This is based on a comparison of per capita farm family income
from farming "with" and "without" the project for a 1 ha farm against the
poverty line, estimated at 401 of GNP or US$68 per capita per amrum. Present
per capita income from farming is estimated to be US$48 per annum for 1 ha
farm families. The project will raise the average per capita income for such
families to US$78 per annum at full development. Since the major result of
the project will be to increase the productivity of land, the distribution of



21
direct benefits will largely follow the land ownership and tenurial
arrangements, but women and landless sharecroppers will benefit too. Women
are expected to benefit from the additional employment opportunities for
unskilled labor in weeding, harvesting, etc. which are expected to result from
the increased level of economic activity generated by the project. Landless
entrepreneurs will also have the possibility of owning and operating power
tillers provided by the project on a for hire basis.
B. Economic Justification
6.5       The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole. The principal assumptions used in the analysis for the project are
described in Annex 7. The key benefit resulting from the project investments
is the incremental agricultural production. Future farmgate prices for
internationally traded commodities have been derived from average World Bank
price projections for 1995, adjusted to 1990 constant terms with appropriate
adjustments for freight, handling, processing and quality differences
(Annex 7, Table 7). Non-traded cost and benefit items have been adjusted by a
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.80 to bring them to the same price basis
as the traded ones. The period of analysis has been taken as 20 years. The
economic cost and benefit streams are presented in Annex 7, Table 8.
6.6       On the basis of the incremental costs and benefits, the economic
rate of return (ERR) and the Net Present Value (NPV) were computed for the
project as a whole. The ERR for the project is estimated to be 622, and the
NPV, Tk 15.3 billion, assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 12X. The
high rate of return reflects inter ala the fact that in this sort of project
the benefits accrue almost immediately upon completion of the investment and
reach full development within a few years.
6.7       Sensitivity tests indicate that the project remains viable under a
variety of assumptions regarding costs and benefits. As presented in Table
6.1, with benefits reduced by 20X, costs increased by 201, a combination of
the two, or a lag of up to three years, the ERR will remain well above 12X.
Even using lower export parity prices for rice, the ERR would be 311. For the
project to become economically unacceptable, i.e., generate an ERR below the
opportunity cost of capital of 121, benefits would have to fall by 401 or
costs increase by 3961. Such large changes in the benefits or costs are
highly unlikely.



22
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSES
ERR (X)            NPV @ 12X
Base Case                                    62             Tk 15,272 million
Sensitivity Analysis
Benefits Reduced by 20X                    54
Costs Increased by 20X                     45
Combination of Both                        39
Using Export Parity Prices for Rice        31
Switching values to bring ERR to 121
Total Benefits: command area,              -40
yields and/or output prices
Investment Cost                            369
O & M Cost                                 157
Delay in Benefits by:
- 1 year                                     38
- 2 years                                    27
- 3 years                                    21
C. Risks
6.8       The major risk is that of potential reversals in GOB policy,
leading to a contraction of private sector activity and farmer access to minor
irrigation equipment, complementary inputs and output markets. This risk is
addressed through a series of agreed actions (paras 7.1-7.2). There is also
some risk of the small engines financed under the project being used for non-
project purposes (e.g., to power boats and/or operate rice mills). However,
this risk will be minimized by the monitoring activities of the MEU (para
4.5).



23
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       At negotiations, agreements were obtained that GOB will:
(a)  take all necessary action to:
(i) ensure that customs duty and tariff on imported engines of up
to 20 hp for use in minor irrigation equipment, as well as on
power tillers, do not exceed the rate of 5X of their free on
board (FOB) value (para 2.12(a));
(ii) abolish and thereafter not institute standardization
requirements on imported minor irrigation equipment
(para 2.12(b));
(iii) abolish and thereafter not institute restrictions on siting of
tubewells in non-surface irrigation areas (para 2.12(c));
(b)  require BADC to sell or otherwise dispose of its entire stock of
STW/LLP, including spare parts, by March 31, 1992 through direct
sales to farmers or auction to dealers, and thereafter to refrain
from further purchases of STW/LLP (para 2.13);
(c)  take all action to:
(i) remove all restrictions on fertilizer imports (TSP, MP and
urea) (para 2.14(a));
(ii) ensure that all contracts for the commercial import of
foodgrain are awarded on the basis of open international tender
(para 2.14(b)); and
(iii) abolish and thereafter not institute any restrictions on credit
for storage of foodgrain and take steps to facilitate foodgrain
storage by the private sector (para 2.14(c));
(d)  abolish its subsidies on TSP and MP fertilizer as follows:  at
least 60% by October 31, 1991; 100% by March 31, 1992; and
thereafter not directly or indirectly subsidize fertilizer prices
(para 2.15(b), (c) and (d));
(e)  cause BB to enter into Participation Agreements with Participating
Banks, and cause Participating Banks to enter into Dealer
Agreements with Dealers on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(paras 4.3 and 4.4);
(f)  monitor:
(i) compliance with Participation Instruments and Dealer Agreements
(para 4.5(a));
(ii) price at which equipment under the Project is sold to farmers
(para 4.5(b));



24
(iii) use of equipment sold to farmers to ensure that it is used for
the purposes of the Project (para 4.5(c)); and
(g) not later than December 31, 1992, review the implementation of the
project with IDA, and promptly thereafter take all actions required
as a result of the review (para 4.5).
7.2       As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit, GOB will
have:
(a) abolished at least 30X of the subsidies on TSP and MP fertilizers
(para 2.15(a));
(b) approved the Proforma for carrying out the Monitoring and
Evaluation Component of the project (pars 2.16); and
(c) had BB issue to participating banks a model Participation
Instrument and a model Dealer Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, along
with a description of the procedures under which the proceeds of
the Credit will be made available to finance project investment
expenditures (para 4.2).
7.3       With the above conditions and agreements, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh of SDR 52.2
million (US$75.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of
40 years.



25                                ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Shallow Tubewells
A. The Context
Hydrogeological Setting
1.        Most of Bangladesh is covered by a thick sequence of Quaternary and
Recent alluvial deposits, while consolidated sedimentary rocks of Tertiary age
form the Chittagong hill tracts and outcrop in parts of Sylhet and Comilla
districts. The alluvial sequence contains an important aquifer system, the
aquifers being formed by beds of sand and gravel which are intercalated with
beds of silt and clay. Recharge conditions are favorable throughout the
alluvial basin due to the heavy monsoon rains, the very extensive areas where
water is ponded on the paddy fields during the wet season and the high
incidence of areas subject to prolonged flooding. Groundwater levels are
generally at shallow depth, and are at or near land surface during the latter
parts of the monsoon in most of the alluvial area. The aquifers generally
have high permeability. The quality of the water contained by the alluvial
aquifer system is good for irrigation except in the coastal zone where the
occurrence of brackish and saline groundwater reflects the proximity of the
sea and periodic flooding by tidal waves.
Groundwater Resource Evaluation
2.        The National Water Plan (NWP), published in 1986, provides the most
comprehensive assessment of the groundwater resources of Bangladesh. The
resource evaluation is based on the concept of potential recharge, which is
the recharge which would occur in a situation which was not constrained by the
availability of fillable groundwater reservoir. Attainment of potential
recharge would generally require a lowering of the water table by the end of
the dry season by groundwater abstractions to greater depths than would occur
at present, in order to create the fillable storage to receive the potential
recharge during the monsoon season. The assessment of potential recharge was
based on calibrated water balance models of the aquifer systems in 66 planning
areas covering the entire country except the Sunderbans in the extreme
southwest. The models provided an estimate of mean annual potential recharge
of about 68.7 billion m3 on a land surface of about 143,000 km2. Adjustments
were then made to the potential recharge estimates to derive an estimate of
recharge available for irrigation as follows:
(a) deduct 25? as a reserve covering possible errors in the model
estimate;
(b) make allowance for recharge in areas in which it could not be used
and for outflows to the river system; and
(c) establish a reserve for rural, municipal and industrial water
supply.



26                              ANNEX 1
The results of these adjustments are summarized by regions below:
Phyeical  Rural A  AvaI lable
Potential to       constraint. &  H a I  for
Region    Area      char:*    Reaerva  outUlee.o  reerve  Irrigation
(km2)                     (m  million)
....................................................I
NW         S0.161      176854   4.463      8,911   167     9,828
NE         84.755     28,740    5,e97      8.196   814     9,801
SE         80,068      11,956   2,989      7,429   17N     1.862
SC         14,264      4,814    1,208      1.810    76     1.725
SW         25.616      5,250    1,312      1.956   135     1,045
TOTAL     134,662.     68,622.  15,904.   2S.304.   M.     23.556.
/  AFP * Active Flood Plain
Source: Tech Report No. S. NWP, 1987.
3.       Abstractions by existing irrigation facilities are inventoried
periodically (usually bi-annually) by upazillas to provide updated estimates
of the recharge available for new irrigation development. To date, only about
3OZ of the total water available for irrigation has been developed, but the
levels of development vary widely between regions and between upazillas.
Modes of Groundwater Development for Irrigation
4.       Groundwater abstracted from hand-dug open wells by manually operated
bucket mechanisms has been used to irrigate small areas in Bangladesh for many
centuries, and such facilities are still used to water many kitchen gardens.
However, water abstracted from tubewells by various types of pumping
facilities now provides almost the entire supply for groundwater irrigation in
the alluvial basin. There are three main types of tubewell facilities:
(a) Manually operated shallow tubewell installations (MOSTIs).  These
are hand-drilled tubewells typically of 30-50 m depth, cased with
50 mm diameter galvanized iron pipe which is slotted against
aquifer material, equipped with a manually operated suction pump.
They yield about 0.5 1/s from a maximum pumping water level of
about 6.5 m below land surface. Thus they are confined to areas
with shallow water tables and with aquifers at relatively shallow
depth.
(b) Shallow tubewells (STWs) and deep set shallow tubewells (DSSTWs).
These are hand-drilled tubewells of 40-60 m depth cased with 75 mm
diameter galvanized iron or PVC pipe which is slotted against
aquifer material, which are equipped with centrifugal pumps
normally powered by diesel motors of about 5 hp capacity. They
yield about 14 1/s. The STW has the pump unit mounted at land
surface and can be operated with pumping water levels down to about
6.0 m below land surface. The DSSTW has the pump unit mounted in a
sump up to 3.0 m deep and they can be operated with pumping water
levels down to about 9.0 m below land surface. Therefore, both
types of facilities are restricted to areas with shallow water
tables and with aquifers at relatively shallow depth.



27                              ANNEX 1
(c) Deep tubewells (DTWs).  These tubewells are constructed by rotary
rigs or by the jet drilling technique and are equipped with deep
set shaft-driven turbine pumps powered by diesel motors. Until
recently, the design discharge capacity has been standardized at
56 1/s. Such tubewells make a total depth of 80-100 m, and are
completed with a 350 mm diameter upper well casing of mild steel
pipe to a depth of about 30 m and a production string of 200 mm
diameter composed either of stainless steel wire wrapped screen and
galvanized iron pipe, or of glass reinforced plastic screen and
pipe, or of PVC screen and pipe. The wells are gravel packed.
Tubewells designed for discharges of 14 1/s and 28 1/s and equipped
with shaft driven turbine pumps will be introduced under the NMIDP.
5.       The National Water Resources Planning Agency (NWRPA),U has made
estimates of the proportions of the available groundwater resource that could
be developed using the various types of abstraction technology in combination
for all upazillas. The results of these analyses are presented in
consolidated form by planning region below:
Rea i an  [      |NW          5S.  r  S:C                      C E | A | T-ot -stI
Total avai labl  9,480   9161S    l,3iE8   1,El    lWO      1.335   25.749
Amount of rectharce mvyi lW    by abstraction mode:
1. Manul puumping  95      96       1S      18       20      12       256
2. Centrifugal puMPS  8.200  4,950  787   1.071    1,880    1.109   17.997
3. Turbine pumps  1,185  4,569     736      712      80      214     7,496
TOTALS            9,480.  9,615.   1,538.   1.01    1,980    1.835.  25.749
i by centrifugal force  86   1       S1      59       95      88        70
S by turbinepump    13      48       48      40       4        16       29
a/ AFP * Active flood plain.
Source:  Tech. Report No. 5; MP; 1987
6.       The above estimates indicate that, on a country-wide basis, about
70Z of the available groundwater resource could be developed using centrifugal
pumps, 292 would require the use of shaft driven turbine pumps, and the
remaining 12 could be developed by manual pumping.Y It should be noted that
the proportions of the available resource which could be developed by
centrifugal pumps vary widely between regions, ranging from 51? in the
Northeast and Southwest Regions to 95? in the Southeast Region.
1/   Previously the Master Plan Organization
2/   A different picture emerges if the pumping technology is restricted to
one type. For example, if only centrifugal pumps were used (in STW or
DSSTW), development would be restricted to 72? of the total available
resource, while exclusive use of MOSTIs would limit development to only
502 of the available resource.



28                                ANNEX 1
Present Status of STW Development
7.        The hand-drilled STW designed for a discharge of about 14 l/s and
equipped with an engine powered centrifugal pump offers a low cost motor
powered pumping solution for groundwater irrigation in a large part of
Bangladesh where water levels are shallow enough for this pumping technology
to be applied with STWs or DSSTWs. Indeed, as noted in para 6, the NWRPA
estimates that about 70Z of the available groundwater resource of Bangladesh
could be developed using this technology. Moreover, there has been a rapid
expansion of development of this type of facility as a private sector
initiative in recent years, particularly since the market for STN equipment
and its inb%allation was freed from Government imposed constraints and was
allowed to develop as an increasingly demand driven activity since 1988.
Countrywide censuses carried out by MOA in 1987 and 1989 showed the following
growth in installed STW facilities:
Numbers of STWs Installed             Growth Index
IYearl
Year       Operational   Non-operational   Total        (1986 - 100)
_~ Im
l 1986        145,222           8,547         153,769         100
1987        158,899            9,994        168,893         110
1988        183,195            5,264        188,459         123
1989        223,184            7,189        230,373         150
Source:  Table 4.1; 1989 Census of Minor Irrigation Equipment, June 1989.
B. The Groundwater Development Component of the Project
Background
8.        The NWRPA estimates that undeveloped groundwater potential exists
for expanding STW based irrigation development (over the next five years) to
serve an area of 760,000 ha by installing about 170,000 STW facilities, each
serving an average command area of about 4.5 ha. This would bring the
countrywide inventory of STWs to in excess of 400,000 facilities. It is also
estimated that, during the same five year period, about 50,000 existing STWs
will require replacement. Thus the total STN requirement over the five year
period will be about 220,000 new or replacement facilities. Ongoing and
planned programs supported by GOB and other donors are expected to provide
financing for about 100,000 STWs during the period, leaving a financing gap
for about 120,000 facilities.
Scope of the Groundwater Development Component
9.        The project, planned for implementation over a three year period,
will support investments in about 75,000 STW facilities to serve about
340,000 ha of irrigation. The tubewells will be hand-drilled or jet-drilled
and constructed using galvanized iron or PVC tubular materials according to



29                                ANNEX 1
farmers choice. A range of makes of power units (mainly imported) and locally
manufactured pumps will be available for sale to farmers through private
sector dealers from which the farmers may select their choice.
Location of Wells
10.       There will be no restriction on the area in which the facilities
financed under the project may be located except in defined areas in the
coastal zone where water quality deterioration may occur if groundwater is
developed for irrigation.
Cost Estimates of STW Facilities
11.       The costs of STW facilities may vary fairly widely, reflecting the
local aquifer conditions which effect the total depth of a well, and the
material used in well construction and the make of the pump and power unit,
which reflect farmers' choice. For the purpose of costing the project, a base
cost of Tk 34,900 net of taxes has been assumed for the average facility, of
which Tk 17,450 is Zssumed to cover the cost of imported engine and Tk 17,450
is taken for the total cost of the locally manufactured components (pump, pump
fittings, tubewell materials) and for construction of the well and
installation of the pumping equipment.
End-Use of Equipment
12.       Small diesel engines of the type used by STW facilities have several
possible uses including irrigation, power for water transport, and grain
milling. To ensure the engines imported for the project are used for the
intended purpose, participating dealers will be required to: (a) commit in
writing to sell the imported engines only to farmers; and (b) maintain a list
of the farmers to whom the engines were sold which would be open to
inspection.
Eligibility of Dealers for Access to Foreign Exchange
13.       All dealers considered by commercial banks to be eligible to open
letters of credit will be given access to foreign exchange available under the
project for import of engines provided that they commit in writing to:
(a) provide the specified equipment performance warranties; and (b) make
available to BB authenticated copies of all documents relating to the import
of equipment for which project funds are used.



30                                ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Low Lift Pumps
A. The Context
Hydrological Setting
1.        Three major river systems drain to the Bay of Bengal through
Bangladesh. The Brahmaputra-Jamuna River enters the country from the north
and joins the Ganges River, flowing from the west about 90 km west of Dhaka.
Downstream of the confluence, the combined stream, known as the Padma, flows
southeasterly for 103 km to its confluence with the upper Meghna River, which
drains the hill region of northeastern India and a large part of eastern
Bangladesh. The combined rivers, known as the Meghna, flow southward to
discharge to the Bay of Bengal through a complex estuary. Several independent
rivers in the extreme southeast of the country drain the Chittagong hill
tracts into the Bay of Bengal.
2.        The generally flat alluvial plain of Bangladesh is crossed by a
large number of small rivers and channels. These form an intricate web and
carry monsoon runoff generated on the plain and from the surrounding hills in
India, as well as distributing flows spilled from the main rivers.
Approximately 902 of the total annual streamflow in Bangladesh comes from
upper portions of the Ganges, Brahma;utra and Meghna basins that lie outside
Bangladesh in India, China, Nepal and Bhutan. Total outflows to the Bay of
Bengal varies from about 7,000 ma/sec in February to 100,000 m3/sec in August,
with present water use conditions.
3.        Only about 15Z of dry season (January-April) stream flows are found
in the smaller rivers which form the local drainage network. During this
period, stream flow on the minor rivers is maintained by groundwater
discharge.
4.        The lower reaches of the streams and rivers discharging to the Bay
of Bengal are saline during the low flow season. However, the salinized
reaches do not extend as far inland as the tidal limit. The maximum inland
penetration of salinity during the dry season is in the Khulna-Satkhira area
of the Southwest Region, reflecting the changes imposed on the Ganges
distributary system following construction of the Farakka barrage on the
Ganges in India. The high discharge on the major rivers and minor streams
during the monsoon season displaces the saline front to the Bay of Bengal.
Surface Water Resource Evaluation
5.        The most comprehensive assessment of the water resources of the
medium and minor river system is provided by the NWP, published in 1986 and
the assessment is reported in detail in Technical Report No. 27 of the NWP.
The NWP defined some 200 catchments which cover the entire surface of



31                                ANNEX 2
Bangladesh apart from the flood plains of the Ganges, Brahmaputra, Padma and
Lower Meghna rivers. Modelling techniques were used to generate monthly
stream flows for 166 of these catchments at 501 and 801 dependable levels.
Estimates of abstractions by all users in 1983 were made for each of the
modelled catchments. In determining the resource available for development,
the March outflow from a catchment at 501 dependability is taken as an
indicator of the flow available. Significant surpluses (exceeding 10 m9/s) in
March at the 50t dependable level are indicated for 18 catchments after
accounting for present use. Seven of the catchments are located in the
Northwest Region, five in the Northeast and six in the Southeast/Southcentral
Regions. However, some of these surpluses are otherwise committed to projects
under construction or planned (Teesta Barrage, Titas Project and the Southeast
Region Water Resources Development Project).  In other cases, the topographic
conditions do not permit the use of the water by minor irrigation schemes.
Nevertheless, an analysis of the NWP data and a conservative assessment of
development activities in 1990 indicates that a total of about 360,000 ha of
new minor irrigation could be developed using the easily exploitable surplus
water supplies. The NHIDP envisages investments in works which will develop
about 100,000 ha of irrigation from the above surpluses. However, most of
these works will be to provide improved primary water supplies for secondary
pumping by farmer-owned LLPs, and in this respect, support of investments in
LLPs under the presently proposed project will complement the surface
development envisaged under NHIDP.
Historical Development of Minor Irrigation Based on LLPs
6.        Minor irrigation development using LLPs was initiated in the 1950s.
The units are installed during the irrigation season on any accessible source
of either flowing or static water from which a water supply can be pumped on
to the land for distribution for irrigation. The most popular pump units have
been of 56 lis capacity, though a considerable number of 28 l/s pumps have
been fielded. All the pumps are powered by diesel engines. The national
average command area for 56 l/s pumps is about 16 ha.
7.        BADC has been the main government agency involved in this type of
development, but BWDB has also had an involvement. Under the early
development program, LLPs were provided by BADC (and BWDB) on a seasonal
rental basis to farmer groups who were expected to provide fuel. At first,
the government agency also provided the operator under the rental charge, but
later this responsibility was given over to the farmer groups. The agencies
provided major maintenance and recalled the pumps for overhaul at the end of
each irrigation season. The issue of LLPs developed rapidly under the rental
system until 1970, when it stabilized at 45,000 (mainly 56 l/s) units.
8.        Under the privatization policy adopted in the early 19809, BADC and
BWDB were to have disposed of their LLPs by sales to farmers for their
amortized value. However, the sales policy has not been fully successful and
the agencies still retain ownership of several thousand units that are
serviceable for issue on a rental basis.
9.        The most accurate estimates of LLPs installed for irrigation use in
Bangladesh are provided by the nationwide inventories carried out by the
Agriculture Sector Team of MOA in 1987 and 1989. The results of these
censuses are summarized belows



32                              ANNEX 2
-                                                       -'-2    ar*h Xndon  Orooth XnbO
LLPa  ISmle                                  --- Pa    19OBi.0
|a   O*ratina          Total  (1986 * 100)         *              (i1T96100)
--------- 4--4 . No -. --------- ------  Nos ---------------
1906l  30.494   .241   38.7835    100    6998   a"         7,848    100
1967  12.868  4.1I8    36.731   109   7?991     757         8,748    116
1o"   88.27   2,411    86386    l06    m.292    464         *,7"    116
199"  40.768  3,442    4  197   181    10,040   672        10,712    142
Soure.s Conwu. of Minor Irrigation Equipmnt. 1967 and 19
10.      The above figures show that the season of 1989 experienced a
remarkable growth on the numbers of LLPs fielded (21.6Z in the case of the
larger units and 22.32 for the smaller units over the 1988 level of fielded
units). It is noteworthy that the overall growth in LLP pumping capacity has
not been very marked since 1970, vhen the government agencies fielded 45,000
units (mainly 56 l/s capacity) under their rental schemes (para 7), whereas
the total inventory of fielded units in 1989 was 54,900 units, of which 22Z
were < 28 11 capacity. Nevertheless, there has been a very marked change in
the ownership of the facilities since the decision was made to privatize the
operation in the early 19809.
B. The Surface Water Development Component of the Project
Background
11.      An analysis of the potential for additional development of minor
irrigation based on LLPs carried out for appraisal of the NHIDP and reviewed
for the present project indicates that surpluses water flows on rivers and
streams other than the Ganges, Brahmaputra, Padma and Lower Meghna could be
developed by minor irrigation facilities to serve about 360,000 ha (para 5).
Scope of the Surface Water Development Component
12.      The project aims to develop an area of 120,000 ha of new irrigation
based on LLPs. It is expected that the pumps will be installed on rivers,
streams, drains and state water bodies where farmers perceive that there are
dry season water surpluses for development. The pumping equipment will be
fully owned, operated and maintained by individual farmers or farmer groups.
Given that LLP development is now almost completely in the private sector and
that there is no legal mechanism to control the siting of LLPs, it must be
accepted that there is a risk that additional pumps may be installed on
essentially fully developed streams to the detriment of downstream users.
Nevertheless, it is considered that this risk should be considered as
acceptable when measured against the potential development disadvantages of
imposing bureaucratic control through siting licenses or any other means.



33                                ANNEX 2
Cost Estimates for New LLP Facilities
13.       The surface water development component is based on fielding 6,000
LLPs of 56 1/s discharge capacity (total discharge capacit- 336,000 1/i) or
their equivalent in lower discharge units. The average cost of a 56 its
facility is taken as Tk 69,800 of which Tk 46,500 for the imported engine
(usually a diesel motor) and Tk 23,300 -'or the locally manufactured
centrifugal pump and ancillary pipe work. The above costs are net of taxes.
The relatively high unit price taken for costing purposes reflects the
possibility that farmers may chose smaller units (which have higher costs in
terms of unit discharge than the 56 1/s facility) and to allow for price
differences due to different makes of equipment (particularly the power unit).



34                                ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Power Tillers
Background
1.        Power tillers are not, as yet, extensively used in Bangladesh, but a
market has been established for this type of equipment by the private sector.
Power tillers are cost-effective for those farmers who use them, either as
owners or through rental arrangements. Mechanical draft power enjoys cost
advantages in comparison with animal draft power, which is becoming
increasingly scarce. There is an acute shortage of feed and forage in
Bangladesh, and draft animals are often sick and weak and require more time to
prepare land than power tillers. The equipment has additional uses to
tillage. It can be fi'.ted with a small trailer and then finds multiple uses
for transport, as evidenced elsewhere when this type of machinery became
popular, e.g., in China, Thailand and the Philippines. When fitted for a
belt-drive take-off from the engine, the equipment can be used to power a
simple LLP from a surface water supply (single stage propeller pumps powered
from the tiller engine are very commonly used to lift irrigation water from
drainage canals in the lower Chao Phraya river basin in Thailand) or to power
a centrifugal fitted on a shallow tubewell (as is fairly common in both
Thailand and Philippines).
2.        There can be no doubt that use of power tillers will increase in
Bangladesh as intensification of cropping develops. The opportunities for
increasing the quantity and quality of draft animals are limited by the
scarcity of land and a corresponding scarcity of feed and forage, and the
shortage of draft power is already a constraint in several areas. Reports
from the field indicate that the equipment is very popular and cheaper than
cattle for plowing. Equipment owners provide custom services for plowing at
rates in the range of Tk 800-1,000/ha for three passes to prepare land for
paddy, which lowers the cost of land preparation to small and marginal farmers
who formerly hired cattle for plowing at higher prices.
3.        In the short run, power tillers could replace some labor, but this
would be negligible. Overall, they are likely to increase employment by
enabling the speedy land preparation often required for double cropping,
especially when the interval between crops is short. The UNDP's recent
Bangladesh Agriculture Sector Review (1989) supported a policy for import of
power tillers by private individuals provided that the transactions are not
subsidized, either directly or through the credit system.
4.        The Market in Power Tillers.  At present, power tillers are imported
as complete units. However, there appears to be no reason why there should
not be a shift to local assembly or manufacture of part or all of the
equipment. Imports of power tillers in 1989 have been unofficially reported
at about 7,000 by representatives of the China Agricultural Machinery
Corporation in Dhaka, the major source of equipment at present. This may be
taken as indicative of the scale of imports of power tillers in 1989-90.



35                               ANNEX 3
Imports of agricultural machinery in 1988-89, as reported by the Bangladesh
Bureau of Statistics, totalled about Tk 6 million in value which would be
equivalent to about 1,700 power tillers, through the statistics do not
differentiate between different types of agricultural machinery. Comparison
of the above rough estimates of imports of power tillers indicate an increase
of more than 4002 from 1988-89 to 1989-90. Reports from shop-levcl dealers in
power tillers indicate great optimism for expanding sales, and it is
considered that, despite the large increase in imports in 1989-90, supply did
not catch up with demand.
The Power Tiller Component of the Project
5.        The project, includes provision for about 18,000 pcwer tillers,
although the actual number will depend on demand from farmers. It is
estimated that each tiller, powered by a diesel engine in the power range of
9-12 hp, would provide tillage for land preparation of about 25 ha of paddy
for each of two cropping seasons. Thus the proposed import of tillers would
support cultivation on about 450,000 ha of irrigated land. This is roughly
equivalent to the irrigation development planned by the STW development
(340,000 ha) and the LLP development (120,000 ha) proposed under the project,
though these would be no direct linkage between the sales of STWs and LLPs and
the sales of power tillers.
Component Cost Estimate
6.        The average cost of an imported power tiller is taken as Tk 41,880,
net of taxes.
Eligibility Criteria for Dealers
7.        All dealers considered by commercial banks to be eligible to open
letters of credit will be given access to the foreign exchange to be made
available under the project, provided they (a) commit in writing to: (i) limit
their sales of power tillers to farmers; and (ii) provide the purchasers of
the equipment with the necessary performance warranties; (b) keep lists of the
farmers to whom the power tillers are sold; and (c) make available to
Bangladesh Bank authenticated copies of all documents related to the
importation and sale of the power tillers.



ESHLAKS
SHALLOW TUBEiELL AND LW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Action Proaram for Policy and Institutional Reforms
GOWElIENT OBJECTIES                              ISSUES/CURRENT STATUS                    ESIRES TO BE TAKEN IN THE SHORT TERN'        NASIRES TO ME TAKEN IN THE
NEDILE TERX*
MHnor Irriomtion Euomaent and
htwer T111ers
Liberalize and deregulate the    Before early 1989, Imports of minor irrigation          Limit customs duties payable on inported      Design and introduce new
supply system for minor            quipmnt nd power tillers were subject to 501          engines of up to 20 hp and power tillers      tariff structure for minor
Irrigation equipent and power   custom duty for non-standardized equipment,              to the lowest band (0-5%) until new tariff    irrigation equipment and power
tillers as a means of            lbported minly by the private sector.                   structure is introduced.***                   tillers consistent with
accelerating growth in the        Standardized equipment, imported mainly by the                                                       Government s macroeconomic
agricultural sector.              public sector, was subject to a preferential 15%                                                     framework and the sector's
custm duty. This policy restricted farmer choice                                                     require ent for inexpensive
nd biased It in favor of more expensive                                                              minor irrigation equipment.
standardized quipmnt. The application of customs
duties on imported engines suitable for the             odify customs duties payable on all
operation of SWs and LLPs, as well as on power         classes of imported irrigation equipment,
tillers. was suspended following the 1988 floods,      components thereof and spare parts so that
resulting along with other factors in a 22%            the private sector pays the sme   ount,
increase in investment in STW and LLP. and a 400%      or receives the same exemption, as the
increase in investment in power tillers in 1989.       public sector.*"
betore early 1989. the Ministry of Agriculture         Abolish standardization requiraments.***
specified a list of standardized minor irrigatfon
equimnt approved for use in agriculture. This
policy restricted the range of minor Irrigation
equipmnt available to farmers. It WAS suspended
in January 1989 by Ninistry of Agriculture order.
Under the 6roundwater Management Ordinance (1985)
and the 6roundwater Regulations (1987), siting of
STV In non-surface Irrigation areas was restricted
by licensing requirements for new wells and
spacing regulations based on Installed capacity
criteria. supposedly to prevent encroaclhent into
existing tubewell cimand areas.
_I
*     To be confirmed by Ministerial Order or Cabinet Approval.
" To be conditioned under National Minor Irrigation Development Project
*     To be conditioned under Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project
-    To be                           Ural                         I



6VERM"T OBECTIS                                          _To1! TITHE                                                   -L_
The application of this policy was suspended in      In non-surface irrigation areas, abolish     In surface irrigation areas,
early 1989. Under surface Irrigation schemes,        restrictions on siting of all we11s (STIY    carry out a study to: asses
OM8 prohibits farmers from installing STW in         and DTV).***                                 options for developent of
the comand area which prevents them from having                                                   ground and surface irrigation
access to water during the dry season when the                                                    within existing BWDB surface
surface schemes do not provide adequate water,                                                    irrigation schems; based on the
study, prepare specific
proposals for the effective
utilization of existing surface
irrigation schems nd for
crlentary investwnts in
groundhater developnt, nd
fhplmnt recondation  fn
consultation with IDA and ADS.
ONT are currently subsidized by 70X which            Eliminate subsidy on all 2 cusec OTN         Further reduce subsidy on all
encourages their use in areas where cheaper          procured from now on; reduce subsidy on      existing stock of 2 cusec DOV to
tcimology could be used.                             existing stock from 7X to 45X **             30L**
Restrict siting of subsidized 2 cusc ONT
to areas not suitable for STV nd LLP in
accordance with National Water Plan
guidelines.
-a
High levels of BADC stocks of SN, LLP and ON         UC  to dispos of 13.000 STl and LLP          MDC to dispoLe of the remning
discourage private sector from entering              (8.000 SNl out of current stock of 11,000    STVALP stocks and spre parts
bulinesS,                                            units and 5.000 LLP out of current stock     through direct sales to fa
of 16.000 units) through direct sales to     or auction to private delers,
farenrs or public auctions to private         nd not to acquire any no
dealers and not to acquire any new           ones".
ones.***
UDC to refrain from further procurment       MC to prepare and initiate
of 2 cusec OTN until current stock Is        implmentation of an action plan
disposed of through direct sales or          to dispose of all installed ON1
auction to private dealers; UKC to base      currently _wied by: sellng off
any further procurnt on farmes               these operational; repiring and
chotce                                       selling those requiring
rehabilitation; and taing than
not found suitable for rpair
off its bowks**
Denelp_nt of minor Irrigation through DIN            rroedn base of formation of water u#s
technology hts bn_ restricted by excsive             groups by allwing establishunt of
reliance on the village-based (KSS) cooperative      cmand are  bd water usr
systm wihch dos not permit mmbership of all          assciations under the Societin
farmrs in the c_iand area.                           Registration Act of 160.**
' To be confirmd by Rtnisterial Order or Cabinet Approval.
To be conditioned under National Ninor Irrigation Developoent ProJect
**' To be conditioned under Shallow Tubewil and Low Lfft Pump Irrigation ProJect
*     To be conditioned under Agricultural Support Services Project



601hERII@IEIIT 08JECTIVES                     ISS11ESACIEHT STT-16                    lEASIIRES TO K  TAKEN IN THE SHORT TERN'     NEASIRES TO CE TAREN IN TiE
EOIIUNi TERN'
BADC has maintained a dominant role in the           Allow the private sector to participate
supply of minor irrigation equipment, primarily      in the iaportation of donor-funded minor
due to the predoinance of public sector              Irrigation equipment (and fertilizers)
programs and preferential import tenms accorded      and require the distribution of such
to BADC. This has constrained the development of     conodities at full market prices through
the private sector.                                  the private and public sectors on equal
terms.
Improve farmer access to        Besides constituting an unnecessary burden on        Reduce unit subsidies on TSP and MP by        Abolish remaining subsidies on
chemical fertilizers and        the budget. the present large unit subsidies on       30% using import parity prices as a          TSP and MP. and maintain
seeds as a mans of realIzIng   iported TSP (32%) and MP (31%) sold by WDC             reference; review the ex-factory price of    unsubsidized prices thereafter
the full growth potential of    reduce the incentive for the private sector to        urea and adjust it, if necessary, to         on all chemical fertilizers.***
investment in minor             iport.                                               export parity levels.***
irrigation equipmnt.
Rationalize TSP fertilizer distribution
arrangements to enable SCIC to sell
directly to both the private and public
sectors on equal terms.
Fertilizer imports are restricted for the            Remove restrictions on imports of
private sector. even though recent experience        fertilizer (TSP. NP and urea)."** '
with direct private sector lifting of urea from                                                                                           G
factories has resulted In Improved fertilizer        In case of public sector imports, allow
availability at lower prices.                        private sector to lift TSP. MP and urea
directly from the ports (ships).
Vith over 90% of mrketing of urea, representing      WDC to concentrate on performing only an
2/3 of all fertilizer use, now handled by the        intervention role in fertilizer marketing
private sector, BAC's network of TOP and POP         by mintaining a buffer stock and
has become largely redundant. TSP and MP             ensuring fertilizer availability In areas
marketing has also shifted substantially from        unlikely to be served by the private
the POP and TOP directly to the ships.               sector.
Privatize LADC's fertilizer distribution     Dispose of an additional 30 POP
facilities: close 2 of the 6 existing        and rationalize use of remaining
TOP; and privatize 20 of the 60 existing     10 POP consistent with 0ADC's
BADC-operated POP,                           intervention role in fertilizer
marketing.
To be confirmed by Ministerial Order or Cabinet Approval.
"     To be conditioned under National Minor Irrigation Development Project
"'   To be conditioned under Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project
""   To be conditioned under Agricultural Support Services Project



TERN*
Low level of private sector activity in seed                                                       Restrict BADC's marketing of seeds
retailing has limited farmer access to seeds,                                                      to wholesaling to private dealers.
and initiate implementation of
action plan to modify BADC's role in
the seeds sector covering pricing,
seed testing, production and
multiplication and market research
and information.****
Limited Import of breeder and foundation          Allow private sector to import seeds and
seeds by the public sector and lack of            genetic material (subject to plant health
private sector access to locally produced         requirements), and have access to breeder
breeder and foundation seed has constrained       and foundation seeds from local public
the availability of improved genetic material   sources (BADC/research institutes).""
to farmers.
Foadmrain Manac  ent
Improve foodgrain management    Procurement prices are primarily determined                                                          Establish producer floor prices for
to stabilize prices on the        on a cost plus basis. In practice, the                                                             foodgrains taking into consideration
damestic market around            intended support has been ineffective since                                                        findings and recmondations of
opportunity costs.                local market prices fall by up to 30X below                                                        ongoing IFPRI study In consultation
the procurement price at harvest due to lack                                                       with IDA  ADD and USAID; procure
of Government buying capacity,                                                                     quantities of foodgrains of fair
average quality necessary to support
these floor prices; announce floor
prices prior to the planting seasons
for both rice and wheat.
The anti-hoarding law and grain holding law       Remove obstacles to private sector
have been suspended, but not abolished.           foodgrain storage, including restrictions
Credit for storage purposes is restricted.        on credit for storage purposes and anti-
hoarding and grain holding regulations.***
The emphasis on imports as means of ensuring    All Government comercial foodgrain 1mports   Formulate an action plan taking into
food security has constrained the                 beyond usual market requirements (UN) and    consideration the recommendations of
Government's ability to procure domestically.   related food aid to be cleared by the Food    the IFPRI study and. in consultation
Policy and Monitoring Comimttee; undertake    with IDA, ADB and USAID. Initiate
cormercial foodgrain i1ports under open         Its ieplewntation in order to:
international tendering.***                     rationalize foodgrain stock
requrements for food security and
operational purposes; progrem
domestic foodgrain procurement n a
priority basis and imports as a
residual; and streamline PFDS
operations.
* To be confirmed by Ministerial Order or Cabinet Approval.
To be conditioned under National Minor Irrigation Development Project
*    To be conditioned under Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project
""   To be conditioned under Agricultural Support Services Project



EIITa OIIJECTIES                             ISSUES/CtRRENT STATUS               NEASIUES TO E TKEN II THE SHIR  TER           WASIES TO IK TEO 111 THE
Government monopoly of foodgrain imports        Remove foodgrains fron the list of
impedes the transmission of world market        restricted imports.
price signals to farmers and rules out
increased efficiency through competition.
The current ban of foodgrain exports removes                                                  Reove ban on exports of foodgrain
any incentive for the private sector to                                                       to encourage production of high
develop export markets,                                                                       quality rice and possibly other
cereals.
iamtitutim   Naf
Rationalize institutional       A UIDP study of BADC carried out in 1988                                                       Finalize action plan for reform of
fraomrk for winor               recinended that MDC be reoriented away from                                                    SADC's role, in keeping with its
irrigation led agricultural     commercial functions toward developmental                                                      primry function as an institution
developmnt                      activities,                                                                                    to encourage developmnt, and
initiate Its implementation.
An FAO study conducted in 1988 recoamended      Initiate reorganization of 06f in line with   Strengthen FPNU to Ihprove food
that the Directorate General of Food (DBF) be   recandation of FAD study to improv  its    policy and foodgraln procurement
restructured to have its directorates           management and financial efficiency           activities.
represented at three levels (headquarters,
regions and districts). to decentralize
monitoring and control of stock movmet and
improve planning, monitoring and control at
all operational levels.
Emviro_mt
Avoid damage to enviroment      Possible overdraft of aquifer with adverse                                                     Prepare a plan to establish a
by agricultural development     effects on some groundwater users. Potential                                                   sectorwide monitoring systm for the
progrm                          for agro-chmicals to contaminate drinking                                                      enviromntal Impct of agricultural
water and fisheries.                                                                          dmelopment program; and, in
consultation with IDA and ADS, agree
on a timtable to implment the
plan.
QlNtrix/April 26. 19911
*     To be confirmed by Ninisterial Order or Cabinet Approval.
T To be conditioned under National Ninor Irrigation Developmnt Project
T To be conditioned under Shallow Tubell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project
*"' To be conditioned under Agricultural Support Services Project



BANGLADESSH.
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Taka
INVESTHE  NONITORI                     Physical           Price
NT       UC a                     Contingencies      Contingecfies
COPUOEN  EVALUATI                 ....
T        ON         Total         X     AonMt       X%     Ant
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
....................
A. ENGINES                            3238.5        0.0    3238.S        0.0        0.0     9.S      306.0
B. PoRER TILLERS                       817.4        0.0      817.4       0.0        0.0      6.3      51.6
C. EQUIPMENT                             0.0        0.9        0.9       0.0        0.0      3.0       0.0
........................................................................
Total I N  SlHENT COSTS               4056.0        0.9    4056.8        0.0        0.0     8.9      359.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. STAFF                                 0.0        0.2        0.2       0.0        0.0    11.6        0.0
S. CONSULTANTS                           0.0        3.S        3.5       0.0        0.0     9.3        0.3
...........    ........  .......   .....................  ....  ......................................................0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0        3.7        3.7       0.0        0.0     9.4        0.3
Total EASELINE COSTS                  4056.0        4.6    4060.5        0.0        0.0     8.9      360.0
Physical ContingencIles                0.0        0.0       0.0
Price Contingencles                  359.6        0.4     360.0        0.0        0.0
........... ......... ..........................;..........................
Total PRWOJECT COSTS                  4415.6        4.9    4420.5        0.0        0.0     6.1      360.0
Taxes                                203.0        0.1     203.2        0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                    2614.2        4.1    2618.2        0.0        0.0
................... r..............................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  2/1/1991  12:32



42
ANNEX 6
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Cumulative         Undisbursed
IDA FY                   Amount      2     Amount       2      Amount         z
92
December 31              7.0       9       7.0        9        68.0       91
June 30                  7.0      10      14.0       19        61.0       81
93
December 31             14.7      19      28.7       38        46.3       62
June 30                 14.7      20      43.4       58        31.6       42
94
December 31             15.8      21      59.2       79        15.8       21
June 30                  8.0      11      67.2       90         7.8       10
95
December 31              7.8      10      75.0      100          -         -
Estimated Project Closing Date: December 31, 1994



43                                ANNEX 7
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Financial Analysis
General
1.        Financial analyses have been undertaken at the farm level and for
STW, LLP and power tillers to assess the financial viability of the activities
to be supported under the project. Cash flow analyses indicating the
estimated FRR have been carried out for STW, LLP and power tillers, and are
included in this Annex. Details of the assumptions used in the analyses are
presented below.
Input/Output Prices
2.        Financial prices of all inputs and outputs are based on estimated
farmgate prices. All cash flows are baced on mid-1990 constant prices,
assuming inflation affects costs and returns in equally. The cost of hired
labor has been determined as a weighted average of peak and off-peak wages
prevailing in the country. The use of hired labor varies according to the
farm size and the corresponding cropping patterns. However, for the analyses
it has been assumed that about 25Z of the total labor is hired. Financial
prices are shown in Table 3.
Costs of Seed and Manure
3.        Although there is no cash outlay if farmers use their own produce
for seed, a cost has been included because there is a financial opportunity
cost to the farmers of retaining their own seed. Also, many of the small
farmers have to purchase or borrow their seed requirements. Seed costs have
been estimated as the farmgate price of the crop plus a premium of 252 to
allow for the costs of storage, quality, wastage and transport. Farm yard
manure is used quite extensively on all crops, but little is actually traded.
Since the cash expenditure on manure is low, the cost has been ignored in the
analysis.
Cropping Patterns and Input Use
4.        The average cropping pattern for all the agro-ecological zones has
been assumed. It is estimated that with the introduction of irrigation
facilities the cropping intensity will increase substantially, and this
represents the general increase that is expected to occur as increasing
population and land pressures stimulate a more intensive land use, especially
on smaller farms. Input use for both the present and future with project
situations are presented in Table 2. Irrigation cost per crop per ha is based
on the estimated crop water requirement and the associated running hours. The
benefit build-up period has been assumed to be three years (502 in the first
year, 80? in the second, and 100Z in the third), and the farmers would also
adopt the recommended level of inputs within this period.



44                                ANNEX 7
Parm Budgets
S.        The impact of the project on farm incomes has been analyzed on the
basis of a representative farm budget for a 1 ha farm size. This model
primarily reflects the assumption of with and without irrigation facilities
and an average cropping patterns for all the agro-ecological zones of
Bangladesh. Specific cropping patterns, yields and input requirements used
for the analysis are presented in Tables 1 and 2.
6.        The analysis of the farm bvtdgets shows that the investments under
the project would have a strong, positive impact on the incomes of the farm
families. This would mainly come from the higher cropping intensities,
changes in the cropping pattern, and more intensive cultural practices.
Analysis of the indicative farm budgets show that a farm of 1 ha size, with
the introduction of irrigation, could expect to increase the average annual
income from the present Tk 8,279 to Tk 14,514 at full development. The
greater intensity of cropping at full development of 1662, compared with 1362
at present, would require the average family to devote more of its collective
effort to the family farm and less to off-farm activities. Details of the
farm model analysis are presented in Table 4.
7.        The farm budget analysis reveals that irrigation plays the dominant
role in increasing farm income in the agro-climatic environment of Bangladesh.
It also reflects the high potential productivity of irrigated agriculture and
its immediate effect on crop yields.
Investment Models
8.        Based on experience from the ongoing minor irrigation systems for
which financial and other data are available, an analysis has been Amdertaken
to assess the probable returns from, and the financial viability of, the
proposed STW, LLP and power tillers to be provided under the project. The
PRR, net present value, and the sensitivity (switching values) are based on
the respective command areas and average cropping patterns. The detail cash
flows are presented in Tables 5 and 6.
9.        Cash profiles for the STW, LLP and power tillers show that
beneficiaries' total net cash inflow with the project would increase
significantly. In all cases, total net earnings would be able to meet the
minimum subsistence requirements of a typical farm family. Financial rates of
return to all resources used in the production activities would be quite
high -- about 39Z for STW and about 60Z for LLP, and 59Z for the power
tillers. Cash flow projections clearly indicate that the investments would be
financially attractive.
B. Economic Analysis
10.       The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole. The methodology and principal assumptions used in the analysis for the
project are described below.
(a) Prices. All values have been expressed in constant 1990 prices.
The economic farmgate prices of all traded agricultural inputs and



45                                ANNEX 7
outputs are based on projected 1995 world market prices taken from
the World Bank Commodity Forecasts of January 1990. These have
been adjusted to a 1990 level using the Manufacturing Unit Value
(MUV) index. Other goods and services for which international
price projections are not available bave also been valued in 1990
constant prices. For valid comparison with other Bank funded
projects in Bangladesh, a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.80
has been applied on all local costs including materfnls, draft
power, human labor, local handling, etc.
(b)   Foreign Exchange Value.  Since the Bangladeshi Taka was linked to
traded weighted basket of currencies in June 1980 with the U.S.
dollar as the intervention currency, the exchange rate has
fluctuated considerably and has progressively devalued.
Conversion to border prices has been made at the official exchange
rate of Tk 34.90 - US$1.
(c)  Value of Unskilled Labor.  Agricultural wage rates in rural
Bangladesh vary significantly over time and across different
regions. Reliable national data on farm labor wage rates are also
not available. Widespread unemployment and under-employment
indicates that market wage rates, in general, overstate the true
opportunity cost of labor in rural areas. Seasonal variatio.3
have also been averaged out in the calculation of wage rates,
before adjustment by the SCF of 0.80.
(d)  Investment and Operating Costs.  All costs associated with the
installation of the irrigation equipment, except price
contingencies, taxes and duties, have been included in the
analysis. Local costs are expressed in border Taka after applying
the SCF of 0.80. Annual operation and maintenance of the
irrigation equipment has been included. A substantial amount of
the cost not covered by the project but necessary for generating
project benefits has also been included in the analysis (e.g.,
replacement of pump unit, construction of distribution systems for
LLPs etc.)
(e)  Development Phasing.  Based on the implementation period of three
years with an uptake rate of 20Z, 40Z and 402, and a gradual
change in the croppina patterns and intensities, full development
in terms of incrementa.  production would be reached in the sixth
year of the project life. On-farm development would take three
years to reach full development. These rates are realistic given
the conservative estimates of yields and cropping patterns.
Besides, irrigation facilities already exists in the country and
the farmers are familiar with HYV crops.
(f)  Project Benefits.  The value of the incremental crop production
has been included in the project benefit stream. The benefits are
expected from an increase in the cropping intensities, and
increased yields caused by the intensification of production
systems. Other indirect project benefits have not been included



46                                ANNEX 7
in the analysis because of their conjectural nature or relative
insignificance to the overall results.
11.       On the basis of the costs and benefits, the ERR for the project is
estimated to be 62Z. The NPV at 122, which is assumed to be the opportunity
cost of capital in Bangladesh, is Tk 15,272 million. This high rate of return
appears to be due to a number of factors. First, it is characteristic of thls
type of project that benefits accrue immediately, with few years of negative
benefits in the cash flow. Second, the cost of line agency support services
like DAE, which are very crucial element in achieving the production increase,
have not been accounted for in project costs as they do not form part of the
cost and their magnitude is also uncertain. Economic costs and benefits are
detailed in Table 8.



47
BANGLADESH                             ANNEX 7
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT        Table 1
Cropping Patterns and Yields for Farm and Investment Models
PRESENT/FUTURE
WITHOUT PROJECT          FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Area     Yield           Area      Yield
CROP                      (ha)    (ton/ha)          (ha)     (ton/ha)
Early kharif
B. Aus LVl/             0.22      1.00           0.05        1.00
T. Aus HYV1/            0.00      0.00           0.20        2.80
B. Aus/Amanl/           0.02      1.70           0.00        0.00
Jute                    0.09      1.90           0.01        1.90
Late kharif
B. Aman LVlI            0.41      1.20           0.11        1.20
T. Aman LVl/            0.32      1.6f           0.08        1.60
T. Aman HYVl/           0.00      0.00           0.42        3.00
Rabi
Boro LVl/               0.04      1.80           0.00        0.00
Boro HYVli              0.00      0.00           0.57        3.75 21
Wheat HYV               0.00      0.00           0.10        2.80
Oilseeds3l              0.11      0.85           0.06        1.10
Potato                  0.00      0.00           0.00        0.00
Pulses4/                0.14      0.60           0.03        0.75
Vegetables5/            0.00       0.00          0.02        5.00
Perennial
Sugarcane               0.01     38.00           0.01       55.00
Total croRped area        1.36                     1.66
Net cultivated area       1.00                     1.00
Cropping intensity        1.36                     1.66
Irrigated area            0.00                     1.29
1/ Paddy (to convert to rice, multiply by 0.66).
2/ Although Boro hYV paddy yields could reach over 5.00 tons/ha with correct
fertilizer application, crop husbandry practices, etc., 3.75 tons/ha has
been used in the project analysis to allow for possible disruptions in
fertilizer supply and learning oa the part of farmers.
3/ Mustard and linseed.
4/ Lentils and gram.
5/ Various species.



BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJET
Use of farm inputs per crop per hectare - Present/FWO Project
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------__-------------------
Seed     F e r t i 1 i z e r       Pesti   Labor   Draft    Manure   Irri-
Urea     TSP      MP      cides             Animal            gation
Crop                Kg       Kg       Kg       Kg       TkIHa  M days  A days       Ton    Tk/Ha
_________________________10__________20_____________0___-_0____________________40_______0_____0__
B.Aus LV            100       20        5        0        0      146       40        0        0
B. Aus/Aman         100        0        0        0        0      140        0        0        0
B.Aman LV           100        0        0        0        0      120       40        0        0
T.Aman LV            30       60       35       15        0      150       40        0        0
T.Aman YV             0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Boro HYV              0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Wheat    HYV           0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0
Jute                  9        0       35       35        0      200       45        0        0
Oilseeds             15        0       20        0        0       50       30        0        0
Pulses               30        0        0        0        0       S0       30        0        0
Sugarcane         5,000       20       50        0        0      200       44        0        0
Use of farm inputs per crop per hectare - Future with Project
Seed     F e r t i 1 i z e r       Pesti   Labor   Draft   Manure    Irri-
Urea      TSP     MP      cides             Animal            gation
Crop                Kg       Kg       Kg       Kg       Tk/Ha  H days   A days    Ton       Tk/Ha
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-------------------
B.Aus LV            100       20        5        0        0      130       40        0        0
T.Aus HYV            30      150       60       40      150      168       48        0   1,060
B.Aman LV           100        0        0        0        0      108       40        0        0
T.Aman LV             0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
T.Aman HYV           30      100       60       53      150      177       40        0      600
Boro HYV             30      185      100       92      150      200       40        0   2,570
Wheat HYV            140      90       90       20        0      105       40        0      600             Z
Jute                   9        0      35       35        0      200       45        0        0
Oliseeds              15      30       60       15       75       75       30        0       40
Pulses               30        0        0        0        0       60       25        0        0
A       I         0   1      0'I      150      100      225      300       60        0      510



49
ANNEX 7
Table 3
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Evaluation
UNIT         FINANCIAL                   ECONOMIC
A. OUTPUTS:
Paddy 11              Ton            5,628                        6,042
Paddy 2/              Ton            5,360
Wheat 1/              Ton            5,628                        7,943
Wheat 2/              Ton            4,824
Jute                  Ton           6,700                         7,581
Oilseed               Ton          12,060                        13,079
Potato                Ton            1,608                        1,335
Pulse                 Ton           5,360                         4,449
Sugarcane             Ton              600                        1,498
Vegetables            Ton            2,144                        1,780
By-products:
Paddy straw         Ton             600                           480
Wheat straw         Ton              300                          240
Jute sticks         Ton              900                          720
B. INPUTS:
Seed/planting material:
Paddy, LV            Kg               7.04                        7.55
Paddy, HYV           Kg               7.04                        7.55
Wheat, HYV           Kg               6.70                        9.93
Jute                 Kg             30.00                        30.00
Oilseed              Kg              15.08                       16.35
Potato               Kg              2.01                         1.61
Pulse                Kg              6.70                         5.36
Sugarne              Kg              0.75                         1.87
Vegables             Kg            100.00                        80.00
Fertilizers            Kg
Urea                                  5.00                        5.25
TSP                                   4.75                       10.47
DAP                                   5.00                       11.21
MP                                    4.00                        7.60
Pesticides 3/          Kg/lit         300                         390
Draft animals          Pr-day          45.00                       45.00
Labor                  Staff-day       25.00                       20.00
1/    Government procurement prices for 1990-91.
2/    Average free-market prices for 1990-91.
3/    Average of Diazinon, Furadon, Dimecron, Malathion and Nogos.  Financial
price modified by ECF of 1.30.



8ANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUSEWELL AND tUKLFTPUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Family 8udgett for Farm odel    -
Average fsrm  *ize:    1 ha
PRES.  FWO                ................ FUTURE WITH PROJECT.
YEARS                    1           2           a          4           5+
...................................  Tae ................................ ....
DWLOW
Gross value of production             12,713      12,718      12,718      19,808       24,989      27,116      27,116
TOTALS                             12,713      12,718      12,713      19,808       24,896      27,116      27,864
OUTFLOW
Direct crop cost                       2,978       2,978       2,978       3,740        4,222       4,563       4,568
Indirect cost
- hired labor at Tk 25  /g9d 9585                                98s6      1,081        1,100       1,141       1,141
- irrigation V                             0           0           0       2,527        4,171       5,174       5,174
- loan intor                             20          208         206         489          S88         662         682
- eiellan owus                           3 818       al8         818         671          898       1,042       1,042
Sub-totals                          1,481       1,481       1,481       4,667        6,757       8,039       8,089
TOTALS                              4,484       4,484       4,484       8,406       10,979      12,802      12,602
GROSS FAMILY DICOME l/                 6,279       8,279       8,279      11,400       18,416      14,514      14,514
DIREMENTAL I0068 FAIILY INCOME            -           -            0       8,121        5,187       6,256       6,236
RETURN TO FAMILY Labor
Family labor (man-days)                  112         112         112         124          132         137         187
N.V. of Production/amn-day                74          74          74          92          102         106          106
N.V. of Incr.Prodln/man-day               -           -            0           18          28          82          82
RETURN PER FAMILY MEMBER
Avrage no. o f_amily members                           6           6           6            6           6           a
N.V. of Production/person              1,476       1,478       1,478       2,086        2,896       2,596       2,525
N.V. of Incr.Prodsn/purson                -           -            0          568         918       1,114        1,114
VALUE OF HOME CONSUWTION f/ (Tk/kg)
Cereals -      161  kg/ceput at 6.83  5,074        5,074       6,074       5,074        5,074       5,074       5,074
Oilseeds -      12  kg/caput *t12.00     819         819         819         619          819         819          819
Pulse  -      2.18  kg/caput at 5.86      65          65          65           6           S6          e6          65
Vegetables -    20 kg/caput at 2.14      240         240         240         240          240         240          240
TOTALS                              6,19        6, 198      6,198       6,198        6,196       6,198       6,198
INCREMENTAL CASH INCOME
Owner-operator                            -           --       2,080       5,201        7,218       8,816        8,816                   0
Owner-cum-Sharecropper y                  -           --         491       2,726        4,168       4,929       4,929                   41 
Y  P    nt/FWO based on avialabl, reports, documents and govt. publications.
2F   ave./irrig. ha: Taks 4011 (based on invstment model).
I Short-term credit for 80% of cash cost4 for 6 onths 0 17.5X p.a.
I/At 10X of total cash costs Including loan interest.
At Bangladesh standard lovols for cer lIs and others (source 9SO, 1989).
Typical split of 76% owned, 25% sharecropped between types of tenure on mixed tenure holding.
4  100X of inputs and kosp 60% of crops.



411W 1TUIBE19L AND 15mR R0A1TIN PRDJECT
FDANCIAL ANAL8S FOR 21 L/ LLP
1. DFW                               W110u1        YEAR 1        2         3         4          5         6          7         8          9        10.
PMJECT            .                                       T.                                          ...
Grp value of apoduction                7           127.130    115.690   216.928   271.160   271.160   271.160   2711,10   271,160   271,160  271.160
TOTAL                       127.10         127.180   135.560   216.920   271.160   271.110   271.160   271.160   271,160   271.160  271.160
2. WTFLr
Investen1t                                          69,600         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0        0
Co  reedction cost t                  US 0          44340    87.140    59s424    74.200    74.200    74,2e0    74 280    74,260    74.280   74.280
Irr gation 0 & II fl                                     0    29,657    22680    22.630    22,630    22,630    22,630    22,630    22,630   22,630
TOTAL                        44,840        114,140    66.797    e2.054    96.910    96,910    96,910    S6,910    96.910    96,910   96,910
Not l;nfit Safoer Financlng(1-2)
TOTAL                        62.790         12 990    66 788   134 874   174 250   174 280   174 250   174 280   174,280   174.250  174.250
U4rEAL                         '-         -69:800   -14.007    82.064    91,460    91.460    91.460    91.460    91.460    91.40   91.460
FD* 8t      o               WV      1312  Take   a49.945
Switching Velue, to berIng F    to 12h         Revenue       -2     Cost       575
Thres pwr build-up of  ;leida an asaoeat  benaf tit and production coss (60N. 85 10).
I At full cost of the supeaont th$9.600, for initial Investment and tlk 69,800 for replecemant of pump unit in year 11.
Includes full cost of _aterini inputs an 255 of total huan labour.
Include flouod 0A charga nat includid in production eost esti_tes.
FWCIL ANLYSIS FIR 14 US ST IV
1. INW                               WITHSr          aR 1        2         8         4          5         6          7          8         9         10.
PR0.r          .........................      .     .        Take.............................
aroas value of production             50.82         0.682    U4.282    66,m       108.464   108.464   106.484   106,464         106.464    106,464  106.484
TOTm.                        80.662         50.652    54.282    86.7F1   106l464   106,44   108,464   106,464   106.464   106.464  10S.484
2. 001r8.0
Inestment 13 S4.900                                                0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0        0
Cr   roduion  oeet 2                  17.7316       17.736    14.856    2S,770    29,712    29,712    29.712    29,712    29,712    29,712   29,712
Irrigation 0 & N 5/0                                     0    16.044    16.044    16.044    16.044    16.044       16.044    16.044    16.044   16.044
TOTAL                        17,736         52.66    3,.900    89.014    45,756    45.786    458756    45.706    45,756    457586   45.756
Nat Sa;fIt Ilfore Finning(1-2)
lMAL                         86.116         -1.784    2S SS2    46 98e    62 708    62 706    62  6        62.706    62 706    62.708   62.70S
NPITAL                           -        44.900    -9.764    13.642    29.592    295o92    29.592    29.592    29.592    29.592   29.92
FM          895            NWV    1i  Taks    89.486
Switching Values to bring F   to 125           Revenue       -1u    Cost       255
Thre e _er bld-o y          njd sesociated benef ts and production cos t01S.605 endlOOS)    u
/At fullos of tehnipt   ;_tM  900 for initil  ;mns           and tk 34,9co for replacemnt of pump unit in year 11.
Vuds full cost aftroI iniput and 265 of totI humn labur.
Includs fised 0  charges not Inuded In production esb  _timte.
iIb
m



3ANOLAIDESK
SHALLOW TUSWELL AND LOW UFT PUMP IRRIATION PROJECT
FNNCIAL ANALYSIS FOR POUR TILLER
1. DNFLOW                     WITHOUT  YEfAR I      2      a        4       5        6       7        3        9      10o
WE CT
.......................................... ...   .....................................
rora  value of productlon     817,625 817,625 SU,UO 677,000 677,900 677,900 677,900 677,900 677,900 677,900 677,900
TOTAL                817,625 817,026  888,960 677,900 677,900 677,900  677,900  677,900 677,900 677,900  67,900
2. OUTRLOW
Inr u es nt 3/                        251,230        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Crop production cost V        182,886 182,886  115,515 281,00 281,030 281,080 281,030  281,030 2M1,030 281,030 281,030
O a N cost 3                        0       0  80,103  30,106  30,106  30,106  30,106  30,106  30,106  30,106  30,106
TOTAL                182,0886   4,166 145,628  261,138 261,138  261,188  261,138 261,18#  261,188  262,1#8  261,1#8
Not so It  oere Ft anciag(1-2)
TOTAL                164,989 -66,341 190,827 416,762 416,762 416,762 416,762 416,762 416,762 416,762 416,762
DOCUMENTAL                --251,200    6,88   281,328 281,28  21,628    1,628  231,62   281,628  281,828  281,323
FIRR        s o9%           NPV    12X Take 1*065,006
Switching Value to bring FIRR to 121:          Revenue      -245   Coot       52X
Two yoer build-up of ylolds and asciated benefits and production coOt (50%,30 and 1005).
At full coost of the equipment; &209,400 to buy   nmm of $TW to support 1 power ti l ler at Tk 41pO.0.
V  tocludW  tfuIl cot of materl Input and 251 of total human labour.
y lncl_ud, fixed 01 charso not Included In productlon cost estimates.



BANGADESH
SHALLOW TUIEWELL AND LCow   MuP  IIRIGATION PROJECT
Consutation of Economic Price of Internationally Traded Coemodities
Sugar-
A. AT IMPORT PARm                              Rie /paddy    Whet        Soyabeen*2/   cane       TSP         MP
..US6,wn. ........................
Projected 1990/96 value at FOB source J            242         1s0          261         811       189         104
qali  ty factor                                   0.75        0.90         1.00        1.00      1.00        1.00
Adjueted fOB value                                 161         185          261         811       18t         104
Freight and Inurance /                              as          70           so          70       6o           66
Volve CIF at entry poar                            219         20C          827         J81       255         170
............Tak/tonne ..............................
Val" CIF at port of entry US1 1 Tk. 84.90       7,668       7,147        11,400     18,296     0,6U7       5,922
Pert don/handling etc. j                         1,400       1,400         1,400      1,400      1,400      1,400
Handling/tronsport/etorage                         899         899          899         899       899         89
Va l u ex-.tors/Iarket                           9,457       8,940        18,199     15,097    10,6O        7,721
Transport./hdl lIng                                120         120          120         120       120         120
Proceng co                                         820           0            0           0         0           0
P elg Ratio                                       0.07        0.90           -         0.10       --
Ferugate PrnIc                                   6,042       7,948        18,079      1,496    10,566       7,601
Faru        price/kg                              6.04        7.94         18.06       1.50      10.57       7.60
S. AT EXPOT PMI                               Rice/Padd      Jut                  Ure
*-....................US 8/tonns ...........U
Val" FOS detimton                                  242       800                   194
..................Taka(tonne .......... .
Value FOB at etit port U# 1 * Tk. 84.90          6,446    10,458                 6,765
Port deIe/Wileg etc. I/                          1,120     1,120                 1,120
Hoedling/tr prtorge                                 19       819                   819
Valu e"   re/wk.t                                7,007     9,014                 5,84
TrApert/nllg                                                  96                   9g
Pcng Cen                                           820         0                     0
Precog Rie                                        0.67      0.5 
Fare   t prIe                                    4,410     7,561                 5,250
Fsngate pric /kg                                  4.42      7.6C                  5.26
)/ Surce of projection: World Dank Coemdity Price Projoctions January, 1990. At 1995 projection in 19l6 constant
dellore lflated to 1990 valuoo by 6k. Incrse_  in Mbnufacturing Unit Value(MW) as Index of lnterational Inflation
of 44X.
Price hees
-ice: That, millod, N broken, FOP Bangkok/ FOB Chittagong or Chalns      Sugr: FOB Caribbean port
- Wats Ca_ ton NO. 1 Weetern Redapring, Trunder Bay                      TSP:   FOS US Gulft
- Jubes: Whlit D, Otaladeb, FOB Chain lP:    FOB US Gufi
- Soyab en: US, CIF Rotterdm                                             Urea:  FOB Chittegong/Cha lna
2  Sovaa and mustard/li   d ar a eumd to b of equal vlue.                                                                         I
v  Sbto "CkitatgengCkal  and eource or deretinatien.                                                                            ,,
Aea geo* Taa 1400 conrte  to bord  valu  b  n ECF of 1.00.



54
ANNEX 7
Table 8
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBE WELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proiect Economic Analysis
Million Taka
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
Year       Project                Incr. value   NET INCREM.
investments 1/ 0 & M      of prod.      BENEFIT
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
Pre/FWO         0.00        0.00          0.00
-------------------------------------------------------------------
1         804.14        0.00          0.00        -799.54
2       1,603.68      344.98        566.29      -1,382.37
3       1,603.68    1,034.93      1,982.02        -656.59
4           0.00    1.724.89      3,964.04       2,239.15
5           0.00    1,724.89      5,096.62       3.371.73
6           0.00    1,724.89      5,662.92       3,938.03
7           0.00    1,724.89      5,075.95       3,938.03
8           0.00    1,724.89      5,075.95       3,938.03
9           0.00    1,724.89      5,075.95       3,938.03
10           0.00    1.724.89      5,075.95       3,938.03
11-20      799.54    1,724.89      5,075.95       2,138.49
BASE CASE  ERR -->                 622
NPVQ12Z(Tk. Mil) -->            15,272
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS                       ERR
- Cost Increase by 202                     542
- Benefits Decrease by 202                 451
- Costs Increase by 202 and                392
Benefits Decrease by 202
- At Export Parity Price of Rice/Paddy     312
SWITCHING VALUES TO BRING ERR TO :         122
- Incremental Benefit                     -40
- Capital Costs                           369
- 0 & H Costs                             157
DELAY IN RECEIPT OF PROJECTED BENEFITS
APTER INVESTMENT COMPLETED                 ERR
- 1 Year                                  382
- 2 year                                  272
- 3 year                                  212
I/ Includes cost of MEU and farmers' own investment for construction of
distribution systems and replacement of equipment as and when required.



55
ANNEX 8
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
Al.   "Working Paper on Food Policy Management," FAO/CP Cooperative Programme
Investment Center (Report No. 172/89 CP-BGD.73 WP, dated 22 December 1989)
A2.   "Private Sector Import of Fertilizers  in Bangladesh,"  International
Fertilizer Development Center, April 1990
A3.   "Potential and Constraints of Rice Export from Bangladesh, A Supporting
Study for the World Bank's Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation
Project," by A.S.M. Jahangir Under a Contract with World Bank, August 1990
A4.   An Environmental Assessment of Four Agriculture Projects in Bangladesh,
Environmental Resources Limited, December 1990
B1.   Miscellaneous Working Papers, by David Gisselquist, April 1990
B2.   "Equipment Dealers and Their Operations," Associated Services, July 1990



BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND LOW LIFT PUMP IRRIGATION PROJECT
ImDlementation Schedule
Project year                                 1                            2                      3
Fiscal year                                 92                           93                    94
Shallow Tubewells (STW)              *EUU(15,000)UUUEUUUUEUEUEUE(30,000)UEUEUUUUUUU(30,000)UUUENUNOE-
Low Lift Pumps (LLP)                 *EusE(1,200)uuumOssmmmumsmm(2,400)uuumuuumuuuu(2,400)NNEuNuummu
Power Tillers (PT)                   *UUU(3,660)E0ENNENEUo UEEN(7,320)oUouUUEUoUUU(7,320)uUUUEEEUsU
Konitoring and Evaluation



MAP SECTION



B9~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
4 i'\       9      a  ~~~~~I N DIA                            B A N G L A D E S H
-    INDIA   SHALLOW TUBEWELL BANDLADESHTPUM IRRIGATION PROJE 
AREAS SUITABLE FOR SHALLOW TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT
Upozitc Headcl.ofets
26    ~ ~       ~             .~    %x  (                                                         . AZ la Headcl.oeem
-76 @ 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Upozillres Under Project                     e             Ninal Capito
$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rgo '                        auL dsorift rudvce               Zilptud. i
RJo~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p,xmt Li.iti                                     o.- Salnet,,urnoNiionclBoundories
24'  ~ ~ ~ K'/                                        , yy 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  D  I A 
INDIA
\  <   boy   tJ                        B~~~~~~ay  of  Ben galt  
J   /Xh,owr {1                      0   10  20 39          oa S' MEES                                                      _
A         --xm -te                          41ii
saline groundwafer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
- -  s~~~~w ~ H4L



