Page  1
March 17, 1993
The Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
 of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Dear Sir:
            Re:  BANGLADESH: Credit No. 2253-BD
                 (Shallow Tubewell and Low-Lift Pump Irrigation Project)
                 Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 17, 1991 between the 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association) for the Shallow Tubewell and Low-Lift Pump Irrigation 
Project.  We also refer to discussions between us and the Ministry of Agriculture on 
possible amendments to the Development Credit Agreement to streamline procedures for 
Project implementation.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association has agreed to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement as follows in accordance with our discussions:
1.
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement shall be amended to read as 
follows:
"3.02.  The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to execute a 
Participation Instrument with each Participating Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement."
2.
Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement shall be amended to read as 
follows:
"3.03.  In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall monitor: (a) 
compliance with Participating Instruments and (b) use of equipment sold to 
farmers under Part A of the Project to ensure that such equipment is used to 
meet the objectives of the Project."
3.
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be amended to read as 
follows:
"SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Participation
Instruments and Dealer Agreements
Requirements for Participating Banks
Each Participating Bank shall execute a Participation Instrument with Bangladesh 
Bank with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including the 
following:
1.
When applying for foreign exchange under the Project, each Participating Bank 
shall provide at least the following documents to Bangladesh Bank:
(a)
all standard documents required by Bangladesh Bank for opening of letters 
of credit; and
(b)
copies of all documents furnished to the Participating Bank by the 
concerned Dealer in accordance with the standard requirements of such Participating 
Bank, including shipping documents.
2.
Each Participating Bank shall be required to pay Bangladesh Bank the Taka 
equivalent of the foreign exchange at the time the foreign exchange is paid to a 
Page  2
foreign supplier (or to its account) under the Project".
4.
Part B of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby repealed.
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us.  Subject to your confirmation as 
indicated below, this amendment will become effective on the date of your 
confirmation.
Yours sincerely,
Ann O. Hamilton
Director
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
Date:
