                                                      38449


                          INDIA
 COAL SECTORENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIALMITIGATION PROJECT
                   (CREDITNO.2862-IN)


MANAGEMENTREPORTONSTATUSOF OUTSTANDINGISSUESFOLLOWING
   THE INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATIONREPORTNo. 24000 AND
                 MANAGEMENT'SRESPONSE




                       January 5,2007

                             List ofAcronyms


CASS       Chotanagpur Adivasi Sewa Samiti
CBA Act    Coal Bearing Areas Act o f 1957
CCL        Central Coalfields Ltd. InJharkhand(formerly part o f Bihar)
CD/R&R     Community DevelopmentResettlement and Rehabilitation Officer
CIL        Coal India Ltd. (A public sector enterprise o fthe Government o f India)
CSESMP     Coal Sector Environmental and Social MitigationProject
CSRP       Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project
DEA        Department of Economic Affairs, Ministryo f Finance
EMP        EnvironmentalManagement Plan
GO1        Government o f India
IPDP       Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
M O C      Ministryo fCoal
NDO        World Bank New Delhi Office
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OBC        Other Backward Castes
PAF        Project-Affected Family
PAP        Project-Affected Person
PIC        Public Information Center
R&R        Resettlement andRehabilitation
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
XISS       Xavier Institute of Social Service, facilitating NGO inParej East

                                                       INDIA
           COAL SECTORENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIALMITIGATIONPROJECT
                                             (CREDIT NO.2862-IN)


                   MANAGEMENT REPORT ONSTATUS OFISSUES FOLLOWING
               THE INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATION REPORTNo. 24000AND
                                       MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE


INTRODUCTION

 1.       A Boardmeetingheldon July 22,2003 discussed the findings o fthe InspectionPanel's
InvestigationReport' on the India Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project (CSESMP).
This Report focusedexclusively on the Parej East mine, which was one o fthe 25 mines that received
support under the project, and involved 643 (6%) o f the 10,214 total project affected people. "The Board
endorsed the findings o f the Panel, while notingthat the project hadpositively influenced Coal India's
policies on environmental and social issues and that nearly 90% o f the project affected persons inParej
East minehad improved or restoredtheir incomes at the time o fproject completion"2 on June 30,2002.
2.        At this meeting, Management, as part ofits Action Plan, stated its commitment to continue to
supervise the project and assist the key stakeholders -the project affectedpersons (PAPS),the NGO
Chotanagpur Adivasi Sewa Samiti (CASS), the implementing agency Coal India Limited (CIL), its
subsidiary Central Coalfields Limited(CCL), and the Government o f India (GOI) - to reach substantial
resolution on issues relatedto resettlement and environment. Management also agreed to report to the
Board onthe status of these issues at regular intervals.

                   Box 1: The Coal Sector RehabilitationProject (Loan No. 4226-IN) and the
               Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project (Credit No. 2862-IN )

  The US$1.2 billion Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project (CSRP), co-financed by the World Bank and the
  Japanese Bank for International Cooperation, was designed to support market-oriented reforms in the Indian
  coal sector and the commercialization o f C I L operations through financial restructuring, corporatization, and
  productivity improvement.      The investment component o f the CSRP, which provided support for the
  modernization and expansion o f 25 already existing open cast coal mines, was going to generate substantial
  environmental and social impacts. The Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project (CSESMP)
  was a US$63 million free-standing project designed to mitigate the impacts derivingfrom the CSRP.

  The CSESMP became effective in July 1996, and its objectives were to: (i)     enhance Coal India's capacity to
  deal more effectively with environmental and social issues; (ii)implement appropriate policies for
  environmental mitigation and resettlement and rehabilitation o f people affected by coal projects and provide
  support to communities, in particular tribals, living in coal mining areas; and (iii)  test the effectiveness o f
  these policies inthe 25 coal mines that received financial support under the CSRP.

  At the time o fCSESMP closure onJune 30,2002, CIL's capacity to deal withenvironmentaland social issues
  had improved, andpolicies on Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation, and Community Development
  hadbeen adopted company-wide. Duringthe six years o f implementation, the project's 14Resettlement
 Action Plans and 24 Indigenous Peoples Development Plans had offered assistance with the restoration o f
  livelihoods or livingstandard improvements to a total o fnearly 200,000 people.



   The Inspection Panel's InvestigationReport was issued on November 25,2002, inresponse to the Request for
Inspectionwas submitted to the InspectionPanel on June 21,2001.
   World BankNew Release No: 2004/30/SAR. July 25,2003.

3.       Over the pastthree and a halfyears, Management has carried out its commitment to the Board
through regularreporting, participating intechnical briefings and informal Boardmeetings, andhas made
extensive efforts to facilitate the resolution o f outstanding issues. Since the Boardmeeting on July 22,
2003, the supervision team has made nearly a dozen visits to the project area, the CountryDirector for
Indiahas held five meetings with GO1specifically to seek their active cooperation, and the Bank has
devoted US$650,000 and over 170 staff weeks inservice o f this commitment.

4.       At the Board's request, the teamprovidedaTechnical Briefingto BoardmembersinSeptember
2004, a presentationto the full BoardinMarch 2005, and submittedreports to the BoardinApril 2005
and January 2006 on the status of the ManagementAction Plan. Inits April 2005 Report, Management
informed the Boardthat given the outcome o f its ongoing dialogue with GO1and other key stakeholders,
as well as the progressmade to date insome areas and the vaned impact o f Bank involvement inothers,
Management would reassess the nature and extent of its involvement. The result of this reassessment
would be arevised action plan, which would end supervisory responsibilities for selected issues, and
would modify Bank involvement to providingadvice and technical assistanceas neededand/or requested,
on others. September 30,2005 was set as the target date for reviewing progress, inorder to allow for two
further Bankmissions-the first ofwhichtook place inMay 2005, andthe second inAugust 2005.
5.       The findings o f Management's reassessmentwere presented inits January 2006 Report, and
documented the issues where the level of stakeholder cooperation was not contributing to progress
towards resolution, as well as the issues where Bank involvement was no longer having a beneficial
impact. Inthis Report, Management informed the Boardo f its decision to conclude its involvement on
two issues, modify its involvement on four issues, andremain engaged on three issues for another six
months.
6.       The purpose o fthis Report isto informthe BoardofManagement's efforts to resolvethe issues
identifiedinthe InspectionPanel's November 2002 Investigation Report, andpresent the case for
bringingto closure the Bank's involvement inthis InspectionPanelcase.



STATUS OF ISSUES


Issue 1: Economic rehabilitation of 73 project affected persons (PAPs) who reported a decrease in
income duringthe project period
7.       At the time o fproject closure onJune 30,2002, data from Parej East indicatedthat nearly90% o f
PAPs hadbeen able to maintain or increase their income^.^ These data also show that duringthe period
o fRAPimplementation (from 1997 to 2002) the percentage o f female PAPs earning an income increased
dramatically, from 4.1% to 57.8%. Among the 270 female PAPs inParej East, 97.8% have been able to
maintain or increase their incomes duringthe project period. The affectedtribal population experienced
similar improvements. InParej East, there were 194PAPsbelonging to one o f the Scheduled Tribes who
provided income informationfor both the 1997 and 2002 censuses. Ofthese, 88.7% maintained or
increasedtheir incomes duringthe project period. Inaddition, the numbero ftribal PAPswith above-
poverty-line incomes more than doubled duringthe project period.

8.       DuringtheNovember 2003 mission, the BankandCCL agreedthat the Community Development
(CD)/Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) Officer inParej East would undertake a survey to
investigatethe reasons why 73 PAPs had experienced a decreaseinincome. CCL also agreed to hire the
Xavier Institute o f Social Service (XISS), the former facilitating NGO, to verify the survey results and
develop an action plan for any hrther assistance. After some initial delays and resistance from the PAPs

3All income informationhas beenadjusted for inflation.

themselves, XISS beganthe assignment on September 9,2004 and submittedthe interimreport on
February 25,2005. Following the March 1,2005 briefingto the Board, the Bank team reviewed the
interimreport with XISS, and discussed the draft action planwith XISS, CIL, and CCL.
9.       XISS submitted its final survey report with aproposed action plan on September 30,2005.
According to the final report, the caseload for remedial action haddecreased from 73 PAPs to 9 PAPs as
follows:

         24 PAPs have increased their annual income through employment with the company, daily wage
         work and some self-employment;

    0    12PAPs have moved out o f the area and settled elsewhere and are thusnot coveredby the report;

    0    10PAPs are sicwagedand supported bytheir relatives;

    0    9 PAPshave died;

    0    9 PAPs continued to experience a decreaseinincome;

    0    8 PAPs are still inpossession o f their land;4
         1person was included inthe list by error and determinedto be anon-PAP.


10.      Duringthe August2005 mission, CCL informedthe Bank that onthe basis o fthe findingso fthe
XISS interim survey, the following actions hadbeeninitiated to assist the PAPswith economic
rehabilitation:

    0    PAPswere informedby letter and inpersonbythe CD/R&R Officer on nine separate occasions
         about the employment opportunities available to them;

         PAPs have beenlisted into two `labor pools' andthe lists were supplied to the two construction
         contractors for recruitment. The PAPs were informedaccordingly by letter and inperson, but to
         date none o fthe PAPs have indicated interest inthis work;

         The Forest Departmenthas also been given the list o f these PAPs and advised to engage themin
        plantation activities under the project, butto date none o f the PAPs on the list have expressed
         interest inthis work;

    0    The 9 PAPs, who accordingto the survey continuedto experience a decreaseinincome, are
        presentlyworking as coal loaders inthe coal dump, and the Coal Dump Supervisor has been
         instructed to employ them on a preferential basis. A register i s beingmaintained by the Dump
         Supervisor which i s checked by the Parej East Project Officer on a monthly basis.


11.     Taking into account the five years o f income restoration support providedunder the project, four
years o f Bank follow-up supervision, additional efforts by CCL, and the informationprovidedbyXISS on
the status o f the 73 PAPs, of which the 9 PAPswho by February 2005 had not restoredtheir incomes, are
presently employed incoal loading, Management i s o f the view that this issue i s substantially resolved.

12.     Management concludes its involvement on this issue.


Issue 2: Settlement of claims for PAPs cultivating land under customary tenure


  These 8 PAPSwill only be displaced over the next five years as part of normal mine expansion. Assistance will
beprovidedinaccordance withCIL's R&R Policy andIndianLaw at the time ofdisplacement.

13.       Consistent withthe World Bank's OD 4.30, CIL's R&RPolicy states that "tribals cultivating land
undertraditionalrights" shouldberecognizedas entitledto compensation. UnderIndianlaw, PAPsmust
establish that they have a valid claim to the land before compensationcan be paid. Claims for rightsto
land cultivated under customary tenure-referred     to as Ghair M a m a Khas (GMK) landinthe
Hazaribagharea-are      examined on a case-by-case basis by the District Authorities. The disputes over
GMKlandstemfromthe fact that there are ambiguous historicalrecords o f occupancy, dating back to the
pre-independence era, and thus o f tenancy. Occupancy rights needto be verified, which has provento be
a protractedprocess, before compensationcanbe paid. For recognized claims, the compensation amount
i s calculated inthe same manner as for tenancy land.5

14.       Since 2003, the District Authorities have conducted more than a dozen land settlement camps in
Parej East inan effort to resolve claims over GMK land. The Bank supervision team has also held
meetings with the District Collector and the Jharkhand State Secretary for LandRevenue to requesttheir
active cooperationinensuring a timely resolutiono fthis issue.

15.       Intotal, 41claims for landbeingcultivatedundercustomarytenurewere filedwiththeastrict
and State authoritiesby families from the two villages -Parej and DuruKasmar -affectedby the Parej
East mine. Ofthe 26 claims from Parej village, 13 claims have been settled infavor o fproject affected
families (PAFs) and the requisite compensation paid to 12 PAFs. Inthe case o f 1deceasedPAF, the
dependentshave yet to come forward to claim the compensation. The remaining claims by 13 families
were rejected due to ineligibility andor lack o f evidence, and 8 o f these families have chosen to file an
appeal with the StateTribunal, inwhich the Union o f IndidCCL and the State o f Jharkhand are also
parties. Evidence onbehalfo f the claimants was completed in2004, while the evidence on behalf o f
Government of India/CCL i s still inprogress.

16.       Ofthe 15 claims from DuruKasmar village, 3 claims arenot applicable as the landinquestion
will not berequired for mining, and 6 claims havebeenrejected. The remaining 6 claims have been
authenticated and compensationassessed. Payment o f compensation has been delayed due to a
disagreement betweenthe District Revenue Department and the Forest Department, which maintains that
the land inquestion i s forest land andthat claims for compensationthus should be settledinfavor o f the
Forest Departmentrather than o f the affected people.

17.       Inaneffort to expeditetheprocess ofdisbursement ofcompensationto the above 6 claimants, the
Bank team along with project authorities met with the Additional District Collector, Hazaribagh, who
assuredthe team o f his cooperation. Inaddition, the Country Director wrote to the Chief Secretary,
Government o f Jharkhand inNovember 2005 to request urgentresolution of the dispute and payment o f
compensation to the 6 PAPs. Inits January 2006 Report, Management proposedto monitor this issue for
a further six months.

18.       Duringthe mostrecent supervisionmissioninSeptember 2006, CIL informedthe Bankteamthat
the dispute hadbeen settled and the payment o f compensation was inprocess. No appeals havebeen filed
withthe StateTribunal bythe 6 families whose claims have beenrejected. Inlight o fthe above,
Management considers this issue to be substantiallyresolved, and i s o fthe view that continued
involvement by the Bank will have no influence on the outcome o f the eight appeals from Parej village
filedwiththe StateTribunal.

19.      Management concludes its involvement on this issue.




    See para. 63 inManagement Response to the Inspection Panel of July 19,2001.

Issue 3: Provision of long-term leases to PAPs for their house plots inthe resettlement site
20.      Security of landtenure i s considered a critical aspect o f successful resettlement, andthe Bank
first raised this issue with GO1in 1992, during the early stages ofproject preparation. By the time the
original 1994 RAP for Parej East was prepared, CCL had already acquired the Pindra resettlement site
underthe Coal BearingAreas (CBA) Act, which doesnot allow for the provision o f landtitle to
individuals or families. As providingthe PAPs with outright title to the landwould not be possible at
Pindra, Management and GO1began discussing the option o f providingPAPs with long-term leases. In
July 1997, GO1agreed inthe Minuteso fthe CSRPNegotiations to "take the necessary action to obtain
from the relevant authorities writtenwaivers or consent to grant PAPs renewable long-term leases....'I to
their house plots.
21.       Since 1997, the Bank teamhas raisedthe issue o f landtitles or long-term leases duringevery
supervisionmission, ,andthe following key developments have occurred:

     0   M a r c h 1999-Apatta (land title) format for long-term renewable leasesproposedby CIL was
         forwarded to the Ministryof Coal (MOC) for approval.

         April 2000 -Draft lease agreement, specifically for the Pindraresettlement site inParej East,
         was sent to the Director, Department of Coal inMOC for approval. This matter was thenreferred
         to the Ministryo f Law.

     0   May 2001-Ministryo fLaw informs CIL that while ownership cannot betransferred to the
         PAPs, it i s willing to consider requests from the subsidiaries to enter into agreements (long-term
         leases) with individual PAPsregarding their use o f the land, on a case-by-case basis. CIL re-
         submitsindividualcase applicationsto the Ministry o fLaw.
         February 2002 -Additional Secretary, MOC, informed the supervision team that M O C i s in
         discussions with the Ministryo f Law and a solution i s forthcoming.

     0   November 2003 -The Bankrequests CIL andM O C to provide informationon the causes for
         delay and to suggest ways to proceed which would expedite the resolution o f this issue.

     0   M a r c h 2004 -CCL writes follow-up letter to MOCrequesting assistance inresolving this issue.
         May 2004 -CCL writes follow-up letter to MOC requesting assistanceinresolving this issue.

     0   June 2004 -M O C informed the supervision mission that it expected to be able to resolve this
         matter with the Ministry o f Law within the next three months.
         September 2004 -GO1informed the Bank that the commitment it made duringthe CSRP
         Negotiations was inconsistentwith IndianLaw and couldnot be fulfilled.

     0   February 2005 -Country Director holds further meetings with GO1on this issue. Subsequently
         the Department o f Economic Affairs (DEA) informs the Bank that MOC has finalized
         amendments to the CBA Act to provide long-term leasesto PAPs, which have beenvetted by the
         Ministryo fLaw. DEAalso informs the Bankthat these amendments will be submittedduring
         the current session o f Parliament.
         October 2005 - Country Director writes to MOC to request clarification regarding the status o f
         the amendments.

     0   September 2006 - CIL informs the Bank supervision team that the mine plan for Parej East
         indicates that the land at the Pindra resettlement site will not be required for miningduringthe
         life o f the mine (the year 2020), thus providingde facto security o f tenure to PAPs.


 Refer to paragraph38 inthe Minutes o f CSRPNegotiations.

22.      Over the past 14years, the Bank has made extensive and continued efforts to assist the PAPs in
obtaining formal title or long-term leases for their plots inthe Pindraresettlement site. Although
Management i s encouraged that the details o fthe Parej East mineplan indicate that the PAPs will be
providedwith de facto security o f tenure, it is forced to conclude that a formal agreement i s not
achievable, and that no further action on its part will be able to secure such an agreement.
23.      Management concludes its involvement on this issue.


Issue4: Disbursementof subsistenceallowancefundsby GO1
24.      CASS first raisedthis issue withthe Bank inone o fthe two additional documents it submittedto
the InspectionPanel inJanuary 2002. Although CIL's R&R Policy does not mentionthe type o f
subsistence allowancereferredto by CASS, the August 1994Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for Parej
East, Section 3.4.4 refers to an additional `subsistence all~wance'~payable for 20 years to those project
affected families (PAFs) who lose their land and do not opt for ajob or do not qualify for ajob.

25.      InJulyandNovember 2003, Managementrecommendedthat GO1make funds available or
explore additionalways o frealizing this entitlement. A letter receivedinSeptember 2004 from GO1
concluded that the additional subsistence allowance for PAFs inParej East was included inthe 1994 RAP
by oversight. None ofthe RAPSfor the other CIL subsidiaries under the projectincluded this type o f
subsistence allowance, as it was not based on CIL's R&R Policy, or requiredby the Bank's policy. Both
CIL and GO1have clearly stated to the Bank that providingthe additional subsistence allowance would
set an unacceptable precedent whichwould be unsustainable for CIL's 500 mines.

26.      However, inits discussions with the Bank supervision team, CCL indicated its willingness to
reevaluate employment compensationas a means o f economic rehabilitation for families who would lose
their landto miningactivities within the next five years. A survey and consultation exercise, which
focused on 121PAFs, was subsequently undertakenby XISS and the final report was submittedon
September 30,2005. The survey report indicated that among the 121PAFs:


     0   54 PAFs have yet to lose their land, and according to mine plans, were only expectedto do so in
         the next five to ten years;

    0    42 PAFswho have already lost their land andreceived compensationhave also either been given
         a minejob or havereceivedmonetary compensationinlieu o f ajob; and

    0    25 PAFswould lose their landwithin the next five years.
27.      Inresponse to the survey, CCL hasbegunthe process ofprovidingemployment ormonetary
compensationinlieu o f employment to all 25 PAFs who will lose their land within the next five years.
As part o fthis process, the families have beenrequested to submit a family chart, designate anominee for
employment, and submit an application for employment.' Once this informationhas been verifiedbythe



  The unit o f entitlement for this subsistence allowance, as specified inthe 1994 Parej East RAP, is not the
individual, but the family. For families losing up to one acre o f land, a subsistence allowance "at the rate o f Rs.300
permonth+anex-gratia amount o fRs.100per month" wouldbeprovided for twenty years. For families losing
more than one acre o f land, a subsistence allowance o f "Rs.300 per month per acre subject to a maximumof
Rs.1,000 per month    +an ex-gratia amount o f Rs.100per month" would be provided for 20 years. The 1994 Parej
East RAP also indicates that 54 percent o fthe PAFs there were landless (while another 40 percent owned less than
2.5 acres of land).
  T h ~ process i s sometimes lengthy as co-sharers need to agree on a designated nominee or how the compensation
        s
willbe shared.

District Authorities, the employment application completed, and company approval has been obtained,
employment or compensationinlieu o f employment isreceivedinapproximately three months.

28.      At the time ofthe most recent BankmissioninSeptember 2006, one nomineehadreceived
employment, one family hadreceived compensation inlieu o f employment, applications for employment
for eight nominees were underreview,nine families have yet to submit a family chart and designate a
nominee, three designatednominees have yet to submit an employment application, and according to
CCL, three families have declined the offer o f employment. CCL has demonstrated, through its actions,
substantial compliancewith the agreed measures to provide the required compensation to the identified
PAFs.

29.      Managementfinds that this issue has been substantially resolved and concludes its involvement
on this issue.

Issue 5: Delivery of compensation and relocation entitlements
30.      Compensation andrelocation entitlements have beenpaidto all PAFswho have beenresettled
under the project. A total o f 27 PAFs filed cases with the State Tribunal for increased compensation. The
StateTribunal has awardedhigher payment to 9 PAFs, and thisjudgment has been appealed to the High
Court by CCL. Evidence and arguments for bothparties have been completed, and ajudgment i s awaited
from the HighCourt.

31.      As the process for compensationandrelocation entitlements are governedbywell established
Stateprocedures, over which the Bank has no influence, Management considers this issue to be
substantially resolved.
32.      Management concludes its involvement on this issue.


Issue 6: Water quality at the resettlement sites
33.      InitsReportofJuly2003, Managementrecommendedthat institutional arrangements beputin
place for monthly monitoringo fwater quality inall resettlement sites together with independent
verification, as well as measures to mitigate any results outside the parameters defined by Indianlaw.
Since that time, all Bank missions have continuedto examine testing records to ensure that regular
monitoring was undertaken, and that any deviation from accepted parameters was mitigated.

34.      TheBank concluded its supervisory responsibility of this issue in April 2005, since water quality
monitoring was assessed as being satisfactorily addressed by the Central Mine Planning and Design
Institute (CMPDI). The CMPDI continues to monitor the water quality on a monthly basis.


Issue 7: Reclamation of mine landfor agricultural use
35.      The provision o freplacement land for PAPs through utilizationo funused or reclaimed mine land
was proposedbythe World Bank inlate 1997, andpursued inall successive supervision missions.
Despite agreementsreachedduringthe midtermreview inFebruary 1999regarding five land-based
income generating pilots (including inCCL), reluctance on the part o f CIL to follow up on its
commitments resulted inonly one such pilot being implementedinanother subsidiary.

36.      InitsReportofJuly2003, Managementrecommendedthat CCL considerways inwhich
reclaimed landcouldbe used to undertakeland-based income generation activities for PAPs. Inearly
2005, at the request o f the Bank team, project authorities prepared a map which identifiedunusedor
reclaimedmine landwhich couldpotentially be utilizedfor land-based income generation activities.

However, CCL's future needo fthe land for undergroundmining,lack o f legal clarity regarding use
rights, and CCL's obligation to returnthe land to the State government once mining operations have been
completed, have further complicated a decision onthis matter.

37.       A s more than 95% of the PAPs inParej East have now been able to restore or increase their
incomes, and inlight o f the existing legal complexities, Management finds this issue to be substantially
resolved and concludes that further progress on this issue i s unlikely.
38.       Management concludes its involvement on this issue.


Issue 8: Mechanisms for consultation and dissemination of project related information to PAPs
39.       As detailed inearlier reportsto the Board: the existence o fincomplete informationas well as
misinformation inParej East has hada significant impact on the Bank's ability to facilitate the resolution
of various issues. Hence, the supervision team considered ensuringaccess to accurate informationa top
priority. InDecember 2004, with assistance from the Bank team and the Senior External Affairs Officer
from the New Delhi Office, CCL developed an information and communication strategy to ensure public
access to project-relatedinformation, particularly for the affected community, and to improve the
relationship betweenthe project authorities and stakeholders.

40.       CCL began its efforts to improve their relationship with the community by holding a meeting on
February 18,2005 withrepresentatives from each o f the social groups inthe affected area (Muslims,
Ganjus, Turis, Manjhis, Prasads, etc.) to discuss the potential benefits andrisks o f various options for
economic rehabilitation. Duringthis meeting:

0    Community leaders were encouraged to raise all their doubts and questions and seekresolutionto any
     gnevances;"

0    CCL outlined its rehabilitation policies andplans, and redistributed this informationinwriting; and

0    XISS explained the purpose, process, andresults o f the latest survey.


41.       InAugust 2005, the Bankteamnotedthe goodrapport established bythe ProjectOfficer withthe
PAPs, and that timely remedialmeasures" inresponse to gnevances raised duringthe February 2005
meetinghave helpedingaining the confidence o f the PAPs. As agreed withthe Bank, CCL officialshave
continued to meet with the PAPs on a regular basis to listen to and address their concerns.'*
42.       The communication strategy also involvedthe development o f an ongoing dialogue between CCL
and CASS. CCL's Area General Manager (AGM) for the project initiated this with a one-to-one meeting
with CASS onDecember 17,2004, butattempts to continue these discussions duringthe first six months
o f 2005 didnot materialize, due to histransfer to another subsidiary. Duringthe August 2005 field visit,
it was agreed that the newAGMwould hold at least two meetings with CASS to discuss how to resolve
outstandingissues. The first o f these meetingwas held on September 22,2005, and the second on May 6,
2006.


9  See Management's April 2005 and January 2006 Reports to the Board.
lo  The key issues raisedrelated to eligibility criteria for the subsistence allowance, opportunities for economic
rehabilitation., authentication o f GMK land, and requests for more work inthe coal dump.
l1  These measures included improvements inthe condition o f the school building, making the school operational by
facilitating the recruitment o f a localteacher, providing electricity connections to individual houses at the Pindra
resettlement site, and organizing regular health check-ups for PAPs.
l2 Recent requests from the PAPS,including the construction of a temple, and repairs to the school gate and hand
pumphave beenmetbythe project.

 43.      As the stakeholders are now communicating directly with one another as a means of resolving
 their differences, Managementfinds that this issue has been substantially resolved and concludes its
 involvement in this issue.

Issue 9: Constitutionof an IndependentMonitoringPanel(IMP)
44.       In2003 GO1statedthattherewasnoneedforanIMPasthemajorityoftherehabilitationwork
had already beencompleted, and the institutional arrangements inplace were sufficient to handle what
remained. Inits letter to the Bank inSeptember 2004, GO1confirmed its view that circumstances on the
ground didnot warrant the constitution o f an Independent MonitoringPanel.
45.       TheBank accepted theposition of GOI, and concluded its involvement in this issue in April 2005.


CONCLUSION
46.       Inkeepingwith its commitment to the Board, the Bankhas made extensive efforts to facilitate
resolution to the issues identified inthe Inspection Panel's Investigation Report. These include follow-up
missions, technical assistance, continued engagement with all stakeholders, follow-up by the Country
Director with relevant officials at the federal and state levels, and support for external assessments. The
Bank has worked with all key stakeholders to support resolution, and has endeavored to create an
environment which encourages direct communication and multi-stakeholders problem solving.
47.       Overall, the key issues raisedbythe Inspection Panel have been substantially resolved. However,
despite the Bank's active and sustained engagement, constraints inthe existinglegal context have
prevented the achievement o f full resolution on limited aspects o fthe Management Action Plan. Onthese
aspects, Management concludes that the process has beentaken forward to its fullest extent, and that
further developments are restricted by broader policy issues, w h c h extend beyond the coal sector. In
light of the above, Managementhas decided to bringto closure its involvement inthe Coal Sector
Environmental and Social Mitigation Project, and expects that this will be the last Progress Report
submitted inreference to this Inspection Panel case.


IMPLICATIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
48.       The SouthAsia Regioni s inthe process o f writing a formal note onthe lessons learned from its
involvement i s InspectionPanel cases, includingthe CSESMP, to informfuture Bank projects. However,
the experience o f Coal India already suggests that project level interventions may not be able to fully
address the problems involved inland acquisition, resettlement of communities, and the provision o f
compensationto households. These challenges often emanate from systemic problems inthe broader
policy framework governing land acquisition processes and resettlement and compensationmechanisms,
especially for vulnerable communities like tribal groups. Ineffective implementation mechanisms and the
resulting capacity constraints also add to the complexity o f managing such issues at the project level. The
Bank recognizes that there i s a needto address these problems at a broader policy level with direct
capacity support for government that i s cross-sectoral innature.
49.       Drawing onthis important lesson, the Bank has introduced a formal technical assistance program
on safeguard management inIndia this fiscal year. Its objective i s to support the Government o f India
withthe review and assessmento fexisting landacquisition, resettlement andrehabilitation policies and
legislation, as well as identifypossible changes that may result inmore efficient and equitable outcomes.
This new approach to safeguard management is one that complementsthe project level interventions by
identifyinggaps and providing support to strengthen existing country systems. It i s hoped that supporting
the creation o f a better policy environment will reduce the problems faced insafeguarding the interests o f
poor people at the project level.


 . . ..... . . . .
I       I




I.      I..       . . .
               0




               m

         ee,




    0




n

  S W




              e

                      + m
                        d




0   e    0          e       0




              x,

