                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25021

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-28620)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$52.51 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                  INDIA

                                                 FOR A

            COAL SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MITIGATION PROJECT




                                             APRIL 10, 2003




SASES
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June30, 2002)

                          Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
                               Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.020
                              US$ 1.00 = Rs. 48.86

                                FISCAL YEAR
                             April 1     March 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CASS      Chotanagpur Adivasi Sewa Samiti
CCL       Central Coalfields Ltd.
CD/R&R            Community Development/Resettlement and Rehabilitation Officer
CGM       Chief General Manager
CIL       Coal India Ltd.
CMC       Coordination and Monitoring Committee
CMD       Chairman cum Managing Director
CSESMP    Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project
CSRP      Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project
DEA       Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EPAP      Project-Affected Person Entitled to Economic Rehabilitation Assistance
GM        General Manager
GOI       Government of India
INTACH    Indian National Trust of Art and Cultural Heritage
IPDP      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
JBIC      Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JEXIM     Export-Import Bank of Japan
MCL       Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd.
MoC       Ministry of Coal
MoEF      Ministry of Environment and Forests
NCL       Northern Coalfields Ltd.
NDO       World Bank New Delhi Office
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OBC       Other Backward Castes
PAF       Project-Affected Family
PAP       Project-Affected Person
PIC       Public Information Center
R&R       Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SC        Scheduled Caste
SECL      South Eastern Coalfields Ltd.
ST        Scheduled Tribe
TISCO     Tata Iron and Steel Company
TOR       Terms of Reference
VWG       Village Working Group
WCL       Western Coalfields Limited


                        Vice President:       Praful Patel

             Country Director:   Michael F. Carter
               Sector Director:  Jeffrey Racki
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   David Marsden

                                            INDIA
    COAL SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MITIGATION PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 24
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Annex 8.Details of Inspection Panel                                              44
Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            45
Annex 10. Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project                                     50
Annex 11. ESMP Implementation Status                                             54

Project ID: P043310                                                  Project Name: COAL ENV & SOCIAL MITIGATION
Team Leader: David J. Marsden                                        TL Unit: SASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 11, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: COAL ENV & SOCIAL MITIGATION                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-28620
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Mining and other extractive (87%); Other social services (13%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Environmental
                            policies and institutions (P); Other social development (P);
                            Indigenous peoples (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/26/1995                                     Effective:                           07/23/1996
     Appraisal: 11/01/1995                                         MTR: 12/31/1998                  02/12/1999
      Approval: 05/16/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2002



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/COAL INDIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Director:                Jeffrey Racki                                  Jean-Francois Bauer
Team Leader at ICR:             Asger Christensen                              Peter K. Pollak
ICR Primary Author:             Asger Christensen; Samantha
                                Forusz; Sati Achath; David J.
                                Marsden; Mohammad Hasan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project (CSESMP) was designed as a free-standing
project to mitigate impacts deriving from the investment component of the Coal Sector Rehabilitation
Project (CSRP). It was separated from the CSRP on an experimental basis in order to give greater
independent attention and adequate funding to social and environmental issues. With hindsight this possibly
reduced the leverage that might have been available if it had been supervised with the main investment
program. Once Coal India Ltd. had received the proceedings from the main investment loan there was less
incentive to prioritize social issues. The development objective of CSESMP (project) was to assist Coal
India Ltd. (CIL) in making coal production more environmentally and socially sustainable. This objective
was to be achieved by: (i) enhancing Coal India's capacity to deal more effectively with environmental and
social issues; (ii) implementing appropriate policies for environmental mitigation and resettlement and
rehabilitation of people affected by coal projects and providing support to communities, in particular
tribals, living in coal mining areas; and (iii) testing the effectiveness of these policies in the 25 coal mines
that were slated to receive financial support under the CSRP.

The project objectives were reasonably clear, provided a timely response to India's reliance on coal as the
most feasible energy source in the medium and long term, and were consistent with the needs of the coal
sector to deal with the negative impacts arising from increased coal production. However, the client's
uneven commitment during project implementation meant, that the goal of enhanced institutional capacity
leading to environmentally and socially sustainable coal production turned out not to be very realistic.

The project was consistent with the Bank's India Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the
Board on June 20, 1995. This strategy emphasized continued Bank support for India on: (i) reform of
policies in key sectors of its economy; (ii) rationalization of its energy policy, in particular the pricing
policies for various energy resources; (iii) reform of public sector enterprises; (iv) enhancement of the
social and environmental sustainability of the government's investment program; (v) improvement of
environmental protection by strengthening of the capacity of various entities to deal more effectively with
environmental issues and enforcing environmental legislation in India; (vi) increase of the role of
beneficiaries and NGOs in resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected persons, and (vii) broad-based
implementation of consultation and participation so as to enable affected people, in particular women, to
participate more fully in the development process.

In addition to the support for capacity building and institutional change within CIL, the project gave the
Bank an opportunity to assist CIL in the drafting of its policies on resettlement and rehabilitation,
community development, and environmental management . These policies reflected the requirements of the
                                                               1


Bank Group's Operational Directives on Environmental Assessments (OD 4.01), Involuntary Resettlement
(OD 4.30) and Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20).

The project envisioned the following social and environmental benefits that justified the implementation of
this project on its own merits:

   l Social benefits: The project covered 25 open cast coal mines, and of these, 14 had Resettlement
          Action Plans (RAPs) while 24 had Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (IPDPs). The RAPs
          comprised (i) resettlement accompanied by compensation and relocation benefits of an estimated
          10,500 project affected persons (PAPs), and (ii) economic rehabilitation assistance to achieve
          income restoration for 9,260 people. The IPDPs aimed to improve the lives of about 186,000
          people, of which around 56,900 were members of Scheduled Tribes, living in villages not affected



                                                         - 2 -

        by land acquisition within a one kilometer radius around the project mines.

   l Environmental benefits: Implementation of the Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) was
        envisioned to have a significant impact on Coal India's management of land and water resources, as
        well as its control of air and noise pollution. These benefits included an upgrading of the general
        ecology of the mine areas and their surroundings through revegetation of degraded land,
        reclamation of external overburden dumps, use of overburden to backfill and reclaim mined out
        quarries, together with reductions in noise and dust levels, and reductions in the release of polluted
        effluents into rivers, water bodies, and aquifers.

The project also recognized and took into account the following three risk factors which could affect project
implementation, namely:

l Coal India's commitment to the project. The main risk the project faced was a waning of Coal India's
    commitment to its implementation, in case Bank support for the CSRP failed to materialize within a
    reasonable time horizon. Attempts to mitigate this risk involved significant attention to working closely
    with the client throughout project implementation.

l Implementation of Coal India's resettlement and rehabilitation policy. Coal India's revised policy for
    resettlement and rehabilitation placed greater emphasis on assisting project-affected people in
    developing opportunities for self-employment. This was a significant change from previous approaches
    and the Bank worked closely with CIL, offering advice on implementation and providing support
    through an intensive supervision effort.

l Maintenance of infrastructure in communities. Experience had shown that the people who were to
    benefit from facilities such as schools, clinics, roads, wells, tanks, piped water, and street lighting made
    no efforts to maintain them, and as a result, many of these facilities fell quickly into disrepair. To
    safeguard against this risk, Coal India provided support to Village Working Groups (under its
    Community Development Policy) to build up the commitment and capacity in the affected communities
    to maintain these facilities. Bank supervision missions paid close attention to ensuring that
    communities contributed to the initial construction so that a greater sense of ownership would result in
    systematic maintenance.

The project was complex and very demanding on Coal India Ltd. both in terms of scale and activities. The
25 open-cast mines under the project were spread over five subsidiary companies in five (currently six)
                                                                                    2


states and consisted of a whole range of social and environmental mitigation activities. The relative
independence of the separate subsidiaries, together with the relatively weak capacity of the project
management unit did not help the development of coordinated implementation arrangements.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of: (A) a capacity building component, (B) an investment component, and (C) a
social remedial action component. The two first components were directly related to and crucial for
achievement of the project objectives, whereas the third involved retrofit social mitigation activities for
previous Bank supported projects. The capacity of the implementing agency ­ CIL - was at the start of the



                                                       - 3 -

project very low regarding social and environmental mitigation activities, and support was provided to
enhance its capacity during the implementation period with the help of a number of facilitating NGOs, staff
training, and technical assistance from consultants. CIL, however, had sufficient administrative and
financial management capacity for project implementation.

(A) Capacity Building component (US$7.3 million equivalent; 8.7% of the project cost):

This component provided funding for studies and training aimed at strengthening CIL's capacity at
corporate headquarters, subsidiary headquarters, area, and mine levels to deal effectively with
environmental and social issues, as well as for support by locally contracted NGOs for implementation of
RAPs and IPDPs. Training was provided for both environmental and social mitigation staff, and the social
staff received repeated basic training on aspects of social mitigation and data management. In addition,
workshops for both environmental and social mitigation staff were held to exchange lessons learned. A
study on Strengthening of CIL's Environmental & Social Management Capacities formed the basis for an
Institutional Strengthening Action Plan, which comprised development of technical manuals, training
courses, and provision of staff training. The findings of six technical studies linked to specific
environmental mitigation activities were used to inform the design of these activities.

(B) Investment Component (US$76.4 million equivalent; 90.9% of the project cost).

Implementation of Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) involved the bulk of the investment component
budget, and comprised a range of activities to improve environmental management. These included
improved environmental monitoring, measures to bring environmental parameters for air, noise, and water
in compliance with Indian environmental regulations, and measures to reduce hazard and risk from
overburden (OB) dumps. Social mitigation activities involved about 7% of the investment component
budget, and comprised implementation of RAPs and IPDPs. The RAPs comprised (i) resettlement
accompanied by compensation and relocation benefits, and (ii) economic rehabilitation assistance to
achieve income restoration. The IPDPs were implemented in villages located within a one kilometer radius
of the mines, but not affected by land acquisition. Activities in particular villages were implemented as
community development projects involving participatory planning by villagers, who also contributed
towards the capital costs of community assets and were involved in arrangements for operation and
maintenance.

(C) Social Remedial Action Component (US$0.3 million equivalent; 0.4% of the project cost).

This component provided funds for the preparation and implementation of social remedial action programs
for follow-up income restoration assistance to below-poverty-line PAPs affected under three coal mining
projects that had received Bank support in the past.   3




3.4 Revised Components:

Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory. The project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), so there
is no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. However, the project design was reviewed with
regard to applicable environmental and social safeguard policies by the environment and social divisions of
the Asia Technical Department (ASTEN & ASTHR) and found to be in compliance. The project objectives
were consistent with the CAS and the government's priorities and met the critical needs of India's energy



                                                       - 4 -

sector. In terms of particular project components, preparation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) and
Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans (IPDPs) was unsatisfactory. Because the emphasis was placed on
'learning by doing', preparation focused on generic plans and failed to come to terms with the specifics of
each location. Certain critical issues that should have been dealt with during preparation were left for
implementation. This ultimately made implementation difficult. During preparation there was an
under-estimation of the complexities of undertaking resettlement and rehabilitation in a changed
environment. The Coal India Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation was agreed in 1994 and involved a
radical departure from previous policies that provided guaranteed jobs for those resettled. Following the
cancellation of the investment project the Bank's leverage over the environmental and social agenda was
considerably reduced. This might have been more effectively taken account of during preparation.

Given the experimental nature of the project and the initial lack of institutional capacity within Coal India
institutional strengthening and capacity building was to be part of project implementation. With hindsight
the project design might have been strengthened by (i) an institutional assessment to inform the
identification of measures to enhance CIL's environmental and social capacity, (ii) the introduction in
CIL's R&R Policy of other economic rehabilitation options as alternatives to mine jobs besides that of
self-employment (e.g. land based income generation on reclaimed or unused mine land), and (iii) a
description in more detail of the rehabilitation measures, so that support for self-employment would define
an entitlement to a package comprising skills training, investment assistance, and assistance to establish
market linkages. However, whether a strengthening in either of these areas would have improved
achievement of outcomes in a situation characterized by uneven client commitment, and limited managerial
authority by CIL headquarters over the subsidiaries, is debatable.

During preparation of the project, the benefits, major risk factors, and lessons learned from other earlier
projects in India were considered and incorporated into the project design. The project was classified as a
category A project for purposes of OD 4.01, and accordingly CIL prepared an Environmental Impact
Assessment which identified adverse impacts and the measures to mitigate these through Environmental
Action Plans for the 25 mines under the project. The quality of project design on environmental mitigation
activities has been adequate to meet India's environmental regulation standards. The quality of design for
social mitigation activities constituted best practice with regard to the community development approach to
IPDP implementation . While the R&R Policy represented the state-of-the-art within the Bank at the time it
                       4


was developed, its lack of specificity on economic rehabilitation measures reflected a compromise between
CIL and Bank positions, where detailed measures were expected to be developed during project
implementation.

With hindsight Management might have given more attention during preparation to the complexities
associated with the implementation of the R&R activities under the project. The early/mid 1990s was a
time when the Bank's attention to participatory processes was only just emerging. The processes associated
with the involvement of local communities were new and untested for both CIL and the Bank. The
particular interests of specific communities were not therefore adequately incorporated into RAPs and
IPDPs. This resulted in the production of rather indicative IPDPs to be further elaborated during
implementation through consultation processes associated with the production of yearly plans. The IPDPs
did contain a balance between physical infrastructural provision, training opportunities and community
activities. Attention given to the priorities expressed by the beneficiaries meant a concentration on physical
infrastructural provision. The social scientists working on preparation noted the inadequacy of efforts to
encourage meaningful participation, and the need to ensure feasible and workable income generation
schemes. With hindsight assumptions about the efforts required to shift institutional cultures were made by
both Coal India and Management who had other overriding priorities at that time, as they focused on the



                                                       - 5 -

much larger Coal Sector Reform Project from which the CSESMP had been delinked.

Consultation and participation with a variety of stakeholders did take place during project preparation to
address both social and environmental mitigation activities. With hindsight this was not sufficient to
understand the complexities of local conditions or to build effective alliances with local organizations that
might have helped in diffusing tensions between the coal companies and local civil society. It relied too
much on the limited expertise that was available in the different subsidiaries, and on the interpretations by
the officers in those subsidiaries of the situation on the ground. Based on the mine specific general
Resettlement Action Plans from 1994 and the Indigenous Peoples Development Plans from 1995, annual
RAP and IPDP action plans were developed with some consultation with the target population. In addition,
the Bank interacted with a number of local and international NGOs interested in the CSRP and CSESMP
during the course of project preparation and implementation.

In order to provide time for CIL to establish the required capacity for environmental and social mitigation,
and to enable the Bank to assess the implementation progress prior to the negotiations for the CSRP, the
CSESMP became effective in July 1996, nearly two years earlier than the CSRP. To reinforce CIL's
performance on environmental and social mitigation, the progress on mitigation activities was linked to the
CSRP through a series of covenants (cross-conditionalities) in the CSRP Loan Agreement. However,
insufficient attention was given by Management to ensuring that CIL and its subsidiaries had adequate
resources to deal with social and environmental issues during preparation. Management overestimated or
did not properly assess the implications of the complex design (25 geographically separated mine), the
resistance of the institutional culture within the coalfields, and the political and social resistance to wider
coal sector reforms.

During project preparation, alternative project designs were considered: The option to implement
environmental and social mitigating action programs through a separate Environmental and Social
Mitigation Fund for the coal industry was rejected, since it would have deprived Coal India of the incentive
to build up its own capacity for dealing with environmental and social issues. More specifically with
regard to social mitigating actions, alternative designs were considered in the context of consultations
during the preparation of CIL's R&R Policy and its Community Development Plan. The design of the
Environmental Action Plans was dictated by the need to meet the requirements of Indian laws and
regulations as well as the Bank Group's Operational Directives in the most cost effective way. The eventual
separation of social and environment from the main investment project was done on an experimental basis.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unsatisfactory. The major outcomes and achievements of the project are as follows:

Enhancing CIL's capacity to deal more effectively with environmental and social issues.

While the capacity of CIL to deal with environmental issues has improved, the enhancement of its capacity
to deal with social issues has been less successful. Capacity has been created within the project mines and
subsidiaries with respect to environmental mitigation, the social mitigation capacity remains uneven and
limited overall. This is also the case at CIL's headquarters, where the environmental mitigation capacity
has been enhanced, whereas capacity on social mitigation is inadequate to provide supervision and support
for activities at the mine and subsidiary level as well as oversight of technical assistance (TA) activities.
While CIL did adopt an action plan for institutional strengthening with considerable delay, and



                                                       - 6 -

implementation of agreed TA to support implementation of this action plan has started, the action plan does
not include a defined institutional structure for the corporation which will mainstream social mitigation.
Without such a structure that provides career prospects comparable to the rest of the corporation, the staff
that have acquired experience regarding social mitigation are likely to seek transfers to other branches of
CIL, and the capacity established during the project will be dissipated.

Implementing appropriate policies for environmental mitigation and resettlement and rehabilitation of
people affected by coal projects and providing support to communities , in particular tribals, living in
the coal mine areas.

As mentioned above, CIL has adopted the following corporate policies: an Environmental Policy, a
Resettlement & Rehabilitation Policy, and a Community Development Plan for support to communities in
the vicinity of the mines. Policy reviews during implementation found that the Environmental Policy
needed further strengthening regarding compliance monitoring through internal audits. CIL's action plan
for institutional strengthening includes staff training on such audits, but it remains unclear whether they
will become an effective instrument to enhance compliance with environmental regulations. The
Community Development Plan has been found to be an effective policy framework for participatory
community development activities, but has not been continued beyond project closure. A corporate
Community Development policy remains to be finalized. The Resettlement & Rehabilitation (R&R) Policy
has provided economic rehabilitation assistance as an entitlement for all adult Project Affected Persons
(PAPs), and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) and an electronic PAP database has been introduced as a
new planning and monitoring instrument. While these elements represent an improvement upon earlier
policies, implementation of economic rehabilitation assistance has been inadequate, the PAP database has
not been maintained and used adequately, and the RAPs have not been used as a planning instrument in
project mines after project closure.

Testing the effectiveness of these policies in the 25 coal mines that have been slated to receive financial
support under the proposed CSRP.

With regard to the testing of the three policies, CIL has, with some delays, achieved positive results with
regard to the implementation of Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) based on the Environmental Policy.
Under the capacity building component, six TA funded studies linked to specific environmental mitigation
activities have been completed, and their findings used to inform the design of the activities. Positive
results have also been achieved with regard to implementation of IPDPs in 24 mines as community driven
development projects. The Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (IPDPs) have created a capacity among
villagers to plan and implement joint community activities, have given voice to women and other vulnerable
sections in village affairs, and have improved the relations between the project mines and the surrounding
population. The Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) have been implemented in 14 mines with land
acquisition of which ten have involved resettlement, and all 14 have involved economic rehabilitation
assistance. Coal India has completed relocation of the people affected by land acquisition for the mine
expansion that has taken place during the project period. However, it is not clear whether all the PAPs that
have been relocated have also received the compensation and relocation benefits to which they are entitled.
Until it is established that these entitlements have been delivered, resettlement cannot be considered
completed. According to overall information given to the November 2003 supervision mission by CIL,
resettlement under the project has been completed in all but one of the 10 affected mines. The one mine
site where resettlement is outstanding is Belpahar in Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. (MCL), where 29 families
(or 12% of an estimated 374 families) remain to be resettled. Figures for numbers of PAFs have fluctuated
slightly over time, as additional entitlements have been identified, and as mine expansion plans have
changed. This has resulted in both reductions and increases in different mine sites and to problems of


                                                       - 7 -

definitively identifying those affected before and after the project. According to CIL figures from the end of
October 2003 approximately 406 families in MCL and 116 families in Central Coalfields Ltd. (CCL)
remain to be relocated but it is not clear how many of these are families affected under the project, or are
subsequent additions. The final status of delivery of compensation and relocation benefits will be
determined following the supervision mission in June 2004. With regard to economic rehabilitation, the
RAPs were intended to introduce alternative instruments to that of mine jobs as additional compensation for
loss of land, since this practice had contributed to an excessive labor force and economic losses. However,
following pressure from PAPs, mine jobs were provided in excess of the SAR target by 227%. At the same
time, implementation of the alternative economic rehabilitation instrument, namely income restoration
through self-employment, has been based on a narrow interpretation of CIL's R&R Policy, which has
restricted the attractiveness to the PAPs of the assistance offered and produced limited contributions to
income restoration. A determination of the final status of economic rehabilitation awaits verification from
studies to be undertaken in the first half of 2004 of the 363 PAPs who reportedly suffered declines in their
incomes over the project period.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(A) Capacity Building Component.(Output Rating: Unsatisfactory)

A1. Studies (Output Rating: Unsatisfactory)

Study of Strengthening of CIL's Environmental and Social Management Capacities. The study was
scheduled to start within six months of project effectiveness, but was delayed by about three years, and a
workshop on the draft final report on Strengthening of CIL's Environmental and Social Management
Capability was held in October 2000. While many of the recommendations on environment were taken up
there was less progress on the social side. A dispute remains between CIL and the consultants over
payment for this study. The main recommendations of the detailed study concerned environmental
management together with environmental performance auditing and evaluation, mine planning and mine
closure, social impact assessments, land acquisition and resettlement, and use of geographical information
systems. The issue of the institutional set-up for social mitigation activities covering both the 25 project
mines and CIL at large was left vague in the consultant's report. CIL drafted an Institutional Strengthening
Action Plan by November 2000, which incorporated the key recommendations of the report, but left the
issue of an institutional set-up for social and environmental mitigation activities unresolved. A total of 25
environmental auditors, 100 environmental officers, and 75 social mitigation officers (resettlement and
rehabilitation) will be trained under the TA. Manuals and training modules have been developed for (i)
Environmental management (ii) land acquisition and resettlement, (iii) mine planning; (iv) mine closure, (v)
social impact assessments, (vi) Geographical Information System, and (vii) environmental performance
auditing and evaluation, but it is not clear whether these are being used by the subsidiaries.

The ICR mission reviewed manuals and training modules for impact assessments and resettlement &
rehabilitation prepared by the TA consultant and found them inadequate. Guidance has been provided to
the WBPD on the requirements that the consultant need to fulfill to produce adequate manuals and training
modules on social issues. At the wrap-up meeting with the Chairman, CIL, the mission was informed, that
CIL will engage a qualified social scientist, who will work with mine staff to prepare new manuals and
training materials. The environmental manuals and training modules will be reviewed separately by the
Bank.

Standardization of environmental monitoring: The study was submitted on time by September 1998. The
recommendations of the study are being implemented by external contracted agencies (the different State
Pollution Control Boards), which undertake monitoring of air, noise, and water quality at the different



                                                      - 8 -

subsidiaries.

Ash disposal study: TOR for the study were revised so that it covered not only the 25 project mines, but
all CIL mines within a 50 km radius of thermal power plants. The study comprised 62 open cast mines,
and was completed in April 2000. Further assessments by CIL identified 14 of these mines as suitable for
ash disposal, and two are currently used for ash disposal, while the suitability of five other mines are being
further assessed. CCL has offered voids in the Amlo and Bokaro open caste project to Bokaro Thermal
Power Station. Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. (MCL) has entered into an MOU with Hindustan Aluminium
Company (HINDALCO) for disposal of fly ash in a disused quarry of Bharatpur South Project. Northern
Coalfields Ltd. (NCL) is in discussion with Vindyachal Super Thermal Power Station (VSTPS) for
disposal of fly ash in the abandoned Gorbi mine. The process of identifying further mines for fly ash
disposal continues.

Study of disposal of oil/grease and water from workshop effluent: The study was completed in September
1997. Its findings were accepted by the Bank but not by CIL. In September 1998 it was agreed that a
consultant would by end November, 1998, review the design and performance of all existing disposal units
and suggest modifications where required to ensure adherence to Indian effluent standards. The Workshop
Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) and oil and grease traps are working satisfactorily in all the projects. In
most of the installations the treated water is fully reused for vehicle washing, fire fighting or filling of
mobile water sprinklers. However, in some of the projects the siting of the ETP has made the installation of
a reuse system difficult or very expensive. Only in such projects the reuse percentage has continued to be
nil or very low. The sludge from the ETP is considered hazardous and treated by land farming method in
most of the installations. The Orissa State Pollution Control Board, however, has asked for a more
sophisticated impervious lined system for disposal of the oily sludge and other oily used material such as oil
filters. Such an elaborate sludge disposal system has been installed in Ananta Project of MCL. With some
delays all planned 25 effluent treatment plants have been completed.

Study of bio-contamination of subsoil water from domestic effluent: The study was submitted on the due
date of June 30, 1998. It recommended the replacement of the existing septic tank/soak pit systems, which
caused pollution of ground water, with centralized sewage treatment plants (STPs). All STPs were
completed and commissioned by March 2001

Study of overburden dump safety and stability: The study was completed in November 1996. It was
reviewed by a panel composed of Indian and international experts, and its findings were rejected.
Eventually a revised study was produced, and an Overall Action Plan for OB Dump Safety and Stability
was submitted in September 1998 and approved by the panel of experts and the Bank. Implementation was
completed by the project closing date.

Study to determine the suitability of top soils for use in overburden dump reclamation: A draft report
was submitted to CIL in November 1997 and reviewed by a consultant. The final report was submitted on
time in May 1998 and approved by the Bank. The study recommended that top soil should be stored
separately and spread on reclaimed dumps to promote re-vegetation. This is being carried out to varying
degrees in different mines.

Study on lessons learned from implementation of IPDPs and RAPs: The study was submitted by the due
date, and following Bank comments, the section on income restoration was revised, but found
unsatisfactory. The assessment of IPDP and RAP implementation was envisaged as a recurrent yearly
activity in the SAR. However, since the reports furnished by the consultant did not add any insights to
those gained through regular supervision missions, it was agreed between CIL and the Bank to discontinue


                                                       - 9 -

this activity.

Midterm review of environmental policies: The study, which reviewed the progress in implementation of
the Environmental Action Plans together with CIL's environmental policy, was available by the midterm
review in February-March 1999. Based on the findings of the study, the Bank suggested that CIL should
update its environmental policies to include self-policing of environmental regulations and consider the
creation of an internal audit unit. While CIL's updated environmental policy formulated after the mid term
review did not include these recommendations, CIL has subsequently introduced training of staff for
environmental auditing as part of its Institutional Strengthening Action Plan.

Other studies included: (i) a strategy for income restoration drafted in 1998, (ii) market surveys which
were conducted in 1998 in MCL, Central Coalfields Ltd. (CCL) and South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (SECL)
to form a basis for planning of income restoration activities through self employment, (iii) a diagnostic
study in 1998 of income restoration in MCL of PAPs who had settled on land bought outside resettlement
sites, (iv) a study in 2000 funded by a Dutch Trust Fund on the impact of mining on tiger and elephant
habitats around project mines in Bihar (now Jharkand), (v) a hydro geological study in 2001 in NCL to
assess the impact of coal mining on ground water in and around NCL , and (vi) a sample survey in May
                                                                       5


2002 to verify the census of PAP incomes conducted in March 2002 by CIL to form the basis for an
assessment of income restoration. A study of the 363 PAPs who reported decreases in income levels
between 1997 and 2002 is to be undertaken in the first half of 2004 and will be the basis for possible
follow up work to restore incomes.

A2. Training (Output Rating: Unsatisfactory)

Workshops: A two-day workshop which included the participation of CIL and subsidiary management in
addition to mine level mitigation officers, was held in Ranchi in Bihar in October 1997 to introduce the
novel approaches to environmental and social mitigation introduced by the project. At the closure of the
project, a workshop to discuss lessons learned was held in June 2002 involving social and environmental
mitigation staff together with the facilitating NGOs.

Environmental training: Training modules were developed in June 1998 and training was provided
between 1998 and 2000 by a consultant to a total of 218 environmental staff. 180 executives received
training in 2002 and 2003 at 5 different training events. Two of these one week events were held at the
Indian Institute of Coal Management in Dhanbad after project closure. They involved 66 executives being
trained on Environmental issues. Three further training events were held following project closure at the
Indian School of Mines; a 2 week training program on environmental issues involving 62 participants; a
one week training program on Environmental Audit involving 23 participants; an R&R training program
over a two week period involving 29 participants.

Training for social mitigation staff: With assistance from the World Bank Institute, CIL developed in
1997 four training modules covering CIL's social mitigation policies, income restoration, participation, and
computerized information management to build capacity among CIL and NGO staff assigned to the
planning and implementation of IPDPs and RAPs. The training was conducted between September 1997
and August 1998, and a second round of training was undertaken during 1999-2000 for newly assigned
staff. Additional follow-up training was provided on computerized information management to establish
capacity to update and use the database on PAPs. Moreover, workshops were held to discuss lessons
learned among social mitigation staff from different mines within particular subsidiaries and among staff
from all the subsidiaries.



                                                     - 10 -

As part of CIL's Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP), the Indian School of Mines has from
April 2002 developed manuals and training modules on environmental mitigation and auditing for staff
from all CIL mines. A workshop to discuss and disseminate lessons learned was held in February 2002 for
environmental personnel. The training program was completed by January 2003. Since the closure of the
project there has been minimal training for social mitigation/CD/R&R staff, nor opportunities to discuss
experiences across subsidiaries and learn from best practices. In April 2004 a workshop was held at
Western Coalfields Ltd. (WCL) to discuss experiences across subsidiaries on best practices in
implementing R&R activities. According to Coal India, manuals for dealing with R&R were finally
distributed to all subsidiaries in June 2003. The Bank was not asked to review them, and it is not clear to
what extent they are being used by the subsidiaries.

An R&R training program over a two week period was conducted following project closure and involved
29 participants.

A3. Facilitating NGOs (Output Rating: Satisfactory)

In April 1997, 11 local NGOs were engaged by CIL to assist the mine level social mitigation staff with the
planning and implementation of annual IPDPs and RAPs. The number was subsequently reduced to ten,
when CIL with the consent of the Bank terminated the contract of one of the facilitating NGOs in SECL.
After an initial learning period, which involved the sorting out of problems related to payments,
collaboration between CIL and the facilitating NGOs improved substantially. Most of the NGOs have
performed well, and their involvement has been crucial for the implementation of the IPDPs, income
restoration activities, and PAP censuses. CIL terminated the contracts with all facilitating NGOs on the
project closing date of June 30, 2002. The Bank anticipates that some of the facilitating NGOs will be
engaged in subsidiaries such as CCL where follow up work is required and where new socio-economic
surveys are anticipated.

A4. Monitoring (Output Rating: Unsatisfactory)

The project has employed four different monitoring mechanism in addition to Bank supervision. CIL has
submitted quarterly progress reports throughout the project period. From April 1997 to the closure of the
project, a Project Implementation Supervision and Monitoring Consultant has been undertaking supervision
of all project mines on a quarterly basis as a supplement to that by the Bank supervision team. The team
deployed by the consulting firm comprises two environmentalists and two social scientists, who conducted
field visits as part of the preparation for their quarterly reporting. Over time, as the consultant developed
its capacity, the reporting became a useful tool for Bank missions. A Social and Environmental Review
Panel comprising two Indian and two international experts provided an independent assessment of CIL's
policies and performance regarding environmental and social mitigation. Between November 1997 and
February 2001, the staff of the Review Panel conducted a total of seven field visits to project mines and
submitted four reports on their findings . The findings of the Panel as recorded in its four reports have
                                          6


corresponded to and confirmed those of Bank supervision missions.

An electronic PAP database was planned as the primary monitoring tool for assessing RAP implementation
progress, and the extent to which the PAPs have been able to restore their previous income levels. To
prepare for the ICR, a census of PAP income levels was conducted by CIL and the facilitating NGOs in
April 2002. An external consultant undertook a verification of this data on a sample basis during May
2002. In order to support CIL in establishing the PAP database at the mine, subsidiary, and headquarters



                                                       - 11 -

level, extensive assistance has been provided by the Bank throughout the project period. However, despite
this support and the repeated training, CIL has not been able to fully utilize or maintain the PAP database.
Lack of verification of the data in the electronic database against original census data has meant, that the
data in the PAP database have been corrupted to such an extent that an analysis on the status of economic
rehabilitation could not be completed during the ICR mission as planned. Verification and reconciliation of
the data was carried out after project closure and is being used as a basis for a study of those who reported
decreased incomes over the project period. The results of this study will be used as a basis for determining
any additional activities that will need to be undertaken to restore economic livelihoods of the 363 PAPs
identified and complete economic rehabilitation under the project. The results are expected by June 2004.

(B) Investment Component. (Output Rating: Unsatisfactory)

B1. Resettlement Action Plans (Output Rating: Unsatisfactory)

For the 14 mines with land acquisition, CIL submitted annual mine-specific RAPs for every calendar year
from 1998 onwards. Following Bank reviews, the revised annual RAPs were implemented by mine level
CIL staff assisted by the facilitating NGOs.

Resettlement: By the project closing date, 82% of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) target PAFs had
relocated. The supervision mission in November 2003 received a further update on numbers of PAFs
which indicates that 88% of that target had been reached. The status in relation to the SAR target is as
follows (see Annex 11a for mine specific data). All resettlement has been completed for those PAFs whose
land was acquired during the project period.

   Subsidiary   PAFs to     Relocation status    Relocation     Relocation status  Relocation status Relocation status
                   be        by Nov. 1999       status by Nov     by Jan 2002      by June 30, 2002    by Oct 2003
                resettled       (PAFs)          2000 (PAFs)          (PAFs)             (PAFs)            (PAFs)
  NCL              57              42                42                57                 57                57
 MCL              1,290           617                758              861                938                986
 SECL              852            366                544              852                852                852
 CCL               342             73                128              201                282                341
                 (+115)
  Total           2,541         1,098               1,472             1971           2072 (+58)            2236


In late 1999, CIL introduced as part of its R&R Policy a cash grant of Rs.50,000 in lieu of a plot in a
resettlement site, providing the PAPs with the option of choosing to resettle in a place of their own choice .
                                                                                                            7


The cash grant is provided in addition to the compensation for the house and house plot. The cash grant
has helped to reduce PAP resistance to resettlement, and since its introduction, 72% of the resettled PAFs
have chosen this option instead of a plot in a resettlement site.

In the Parej East mine under CCL, the remaining caseload to be resettled is 117 PAFs of the original 290
PAFs. However, a follow-up census of PAFs in 2002 identified an additional 115 PAFs (in the villages of
Muslim Tola and Duru), increasing the total caseload to 405 PAFs. Of the newly identified PAFs, 57 have
already relocated with the cash grant of Rs 50,000 in addition to their house compensation. The mine
expansion plans would require the balance of the additional caseload (58 PAFs) to be relocated by March
2005 . Resettlement required by the mine expansion undertaken until the project closing date has already
     8


been completed.




                                                      - 12 -

For the MCL mines of Jagannath, Bharatpur, Belpahar and Lakhanpur, contingency mine plans were
developed in 1998 to cope with possible delays in resettlement of PAPs due to disputes mainly involving
demands by the PAPs for additional mine jobs. The contingency plans involved having mining operations
bypass villages resisting resettlement, leaving a 300 meter gap between the quarry and the nearest
habitation. A joint CSRP/CSESMP mission reviewed these plans, and were satisfied that they would
permit the continuation of orderly mine advances over at least the next 5 to 7 years, thus permitting
additional time, as and if required, to resolve outstanding disputes raised by the PAPs. Since then,
provision of additional mine jobs and the introduction of the cash grant of Rs. 50,000 have contributed
towards overcoming the resistance in all the MCL mines except Belpahar.

The obligations relating to resettlement and rehabilitation as defined in the SAR comprise the projected
caseload of PAPs created by land acquisition for mine expansion during the project period. At the start of
the project, most land required for mine expansion had already been acquired, but not yet taken into
possession for the actual mine expansion. Since the process of taking land already acquired into possession
for mine expansion will continue for years beyond the project closing date in most of the mines, the SAR
(p.112) defined CIL's obligations relating to resettlement on the basis of an estimate of the PAFs that
would be affected by the estimated amount of land acquired and/or physically taken into possession to
enable the projected mine expansion during the project period. However, the actual mine expansion till
June 30, 2002, and the amount of land taken into possession for this expansion has turned out to be lower
than projected during project preparation. The total number of PAFs affected by the land acquired and/or
taken into possession due to mine expansion within the project period is 1,989 PAFs. For this caseload of
PAFs, resettlement is completed. The remaining 527 PAFs, comprising 469 PAFs from the SAR caseload
plus the balance of 58 PAFs from the additional caseload identified in Parej East, have not been displaced
by mine expansion during the project period.

Income restoration: As mentioned earlier in the section on monitoring of RAP implementation, an analysis
of the extent to which economic rehabilitation for PAPs has taken place during the project period could not
be completed during the ICR mission of October 2002 as planned. A partial and preliminary income
restoration analysis was conducted during the October 2002 supervision mission for three of the four
subsidiaries (CCL, NCL, and SECL) comprising seven mines with RAPs and approximately 29% of all
PAPs (see Annex 11b). The analysis was completed in May 2003, and the results from MCL were
incorporated into the database (see Annex 11). Identification of CIL's remaining obligations and required
follow-up measures will be determined once an analysis of the 363 PAPs who reported decreases in income
over the project period is completed. This expected by June 2004.

CIL's R&R Policy contains three instruments to support income restoration for PAPs, namely provision of
(i) mine jobs to PAPs losing land above a defined threshold , (ii) jobs with contractors, and (iii) assistance
                                                             9


regarding non-land based self-employment through the provision of infrastructure, petty contracts and
formation of cooperatives. Of the total caseload of PAPs entitled to assistance for income restoration
(9,183) , a total of 4,152 (45%) are earning an income as a result of the assistance provided. The number
        10


earning from mine jobs provided as compensation for land loss is 2,693 (28%), while 450 (4.5%) have jobs
with contractors, and 1,006 (10%) have incomes deriving from self-employment assistance.

Mine jobs have been provided in excess of the SAR target by 227%, primarily in MCL. CIL's R&R
Policy was intended to furnish alternative economic rehabilitation instruments to that of provision of mine
jobs, since this practice had contributed to build up an excessive labor force and heavy economic losses . 11


However, in MCL, demands by PAPs for mine jobs as a condition for resettling led to concessions by the
subsidiary, so that a total of 1,996 mine jobs were provided instead of the projected 493 jobs (a excess of



                                                     - 13 -

407%). While this practice has undoubtedly contributed to overall economic rehabilitation and household
income security in MCL, it has also undermined the attractiveness of the assistance offered to PAPs for
self-employment.

4,829 PAPs provided income information in 1997 and in 2002. Average individual incomes in 1997 were
Rs. 1,371. In 2002 they were Rs. 2,806. The average individual increase in income was Rs. 1,079 after
adjusting for inflation. The highest inflation adjusted increase in average individual income was Rs. 2,256
in Samaleswari, and the lowest was Rs. 337 in Kusmunda. Of the 4,829 PAPs for whom both 1997 and
2002 income was available, 4,467 or 92.5% were able to maintain or increase their incomes, while 363
(7.5%) reported a decrease in income. Of those who reported decreasing incomes, 125 (34%) were over 50
years of age, and 38 (10%) were women. The average age of those who reported decreased incomes was
43, and the average inflation adjusted decreases was Rs. 1,316. The smallest reported loss was Rps. 12.
Overall, the Parej East mine had the highest number of PAPs (73) who reported decreased incomes and
NCL's Jhingurda, the least (4).

According to the data available, 1,345 PAPs enrolled in training and 1,220 completed training. 984 PAPs
reported earnings related to the self-employment training (SE) they received. The average income from this
self-employment was Rs. 747. A decent secondary income, but not really sufficient for a primary income.
PAPs on Parej East reported the lowest SE incomes (Rs. 330), while PAPs in Jagannath reported the
highest (Rs. 1,235). Proportionately, Jhingurda had the highest number of PAPs reporting earnings from
SE (42%) while Gevra had the lowest (8%).

The follow-up assistance planned in the 2002 annual RAPs, which comprised investment support and/or
supplementary skills training plus support to establish market linkages for PAPs, who had received training
but were not earning from the training received, has been largely ineffective. The limited interest shown by
PAPs in this follow-up assistance offered by the 2002 annual RAPs may be due to more attractive income
opportunities established by the PAPs themselves independently of the project. However, it also indicates
that if self-employment is to be an effective means of income restoration, it has to be furnished as a
package comprising skills training, investment support, and assistance to establish the required market
linkages for raw materials and sales. The provision of self-employment assistance as an integrated package
has not been implemented consistently across project mines from the start, nor for all the different types of
skills training provided.

With regard to overall income restoration, the results of the analysis of data on CCL, NCL, MCL and
SECL from the PAP database indicate that during the project period, average monthly incomes of
individual PAPs have increased by Rs. 1,079, after adjusting for inflation. However, the extent to which
this increase in average incomes is related to the training for self-employment carried out under the project,
or to the general economic growth of the mining area is not clear.




                                                     - 14 -

                 Status of Economic Rehabilitation for NCL, MCL, CCL and SECL: 1997 ­ 2002
Subsidiary           Total          No. of               No. of EPAPs Avg.                 Avg. Increase
                   Number           EPAPs                  Reporting Individual            1997 - 2002
                   of               Reporting              Income in   Income              Rs./month14
                   EPAPs12          Income13              1997 & 2002 Rs./month
                     1997     2002     1997      2002                    1997      2002
NCL                   256     245      256       245          245         824      2,128       1,105
CCL                   745     653      715       648          648         947      2,010        836
SECL                 1,983    1,658   1,768      1,620       1,620       1,257     2,388        721
MCL                  7,230    6,627   4,109      2,316       2,316       2,454     4,699       1,656
All Projects         10,214   9,183   6,848      4,829       4,829       1,371     2,806       1,079
Note: IA = Inflation Adjusted

For the four subsidiaries of NCL, MCL, CCL, and SECL, a total of 9,183 PAPs were identified in the
updated 1997 census as eligible to receive assistance for economic rehabilitation under the project. Among
this group, the analysis of the 4,829 PAPs with income data for both 1997 and 2002, indicates that 92.5%
have been able to maintain or increase their incomes during the project period (after adjusting for inflation),
and 7% are recorded as having experienced a decrease in the level of their pre-project incomes .
                                                                                               15




An analysis was also conducted of the status of economic rehabilitation for women in NCL, MCL, CCL,
and SECL, and for tribal populations . 1,497 women provided income information in 1997 and in 2002.
                                        16


The average individual income for female PAPs was Rs. 141 in 1997 and Rs. 599 in 2002. This indicates
that, adjusting for inflation, the average individual increase in income was Rs. 424. The highest increases
were reported in MCL (Rs. 761) and the lowest in NCL (Rs. 247). For female PAPs who reported income
information in both years, 1,459 (98.1%) reported that they were able to maintain or increase that income.
Only 38 (1.9%) reported a decrease in income. 729 female PAPs enrolled in training and 586 (80%) of
these reported Self-employed income.

1,456 tribal PAPs provided income information for both 1997 and 2002. The average individual income for
tribal PAPs was Rs. 1,219 in 1997 and Rs. 2,610 in 2002. The average inflation adjusted increase was Rs.
1,098. The highest increase was recorded in MCL (Rs. 1,999) and the lowest in NCL (Rs. 555). Of the
1,456 tribal PAPs who provided information, 1,350 (92.7%) were able to maintain or increase their
incomes, while 106 (7.3%) reported a decrease in income. 389 (27.1%) tribal PAPs reported income from
self employment. The average reported income from self employment was Rs. 618, with the highest (Rs.
951) in SECL and the lowest (Rs.444) in CCL. In CCL, the tribal population has been able to increase
average individual incomes by Rs. 732 per month. Among the 261 tribal PAPs in CCL with income data
for both 1997 and 2002, 70% have been able to increase their incomes, 20% have maintained their
pre-project incomes, and 10% have experienced a decrease in income.

For those PAPs who reported decreases in income during the project period, an analysis is being
undertaken of the reason(s) for the decrease and how they are currently being supported. The results of this
analysis, expected by June 2004, will determine what additional income restoration activities will need to be
provided before economic rehabilitation under the project can be deemed to be completed.




                                                      - 15 -

2,831 PAP households (PAFs) provided income information in 1997 and 2,643 in 2002. Average
household income in 1997 was Rs. 3,429, and in 2002 was Rs. 7,391. After adjusting for inflation this
represents an average household increase of Rs. 3,139. The highest increase was Rs. 7,503 in Belpahar and
the lowest was Rs. 888 in Dipka. In 1997 the highest average household income was reported for
Samaleswari, and the lowest (Rs. 1,689 in Parej East. In 2002 the highest average household income was
Rs. 13,864 in Belpahar and the lowest (Rs. 3,268) was in Parej East.

Land based income restoration pilot: As an alternative to the self employment schemes defined in CIL's
R&R Policy as the instrument to promote income restoration for PAPs not entitled to mine jobs, it was
agreed during the midterm review mission in February/March 1999, that CIL would engage consultants to
develop approaches for land based income generation on unused and reclaimed mine land in five pilot
projects to test the technical feasibility and PAP interest regarding this (in CCL, MCL, SECL, and NCL).
If successful, this new approach would supplement the current assistance to self-employment mandated by
CIL's R&R Policy, and could constitute an effective mechanism to achieve economic rehabilitation of
PAPs, most of whom are small farmers. Eventually, CIL reduced the number of pilot projects, and only
one was initiated in July 2001 in Dipka, SECL, with assistance from an NGO consultant. The pilot
involves 93 PAPs from three villages, who are engaged in cultivation on 37 ha together with dairy and
fishery. The results are encouraging, and the PAPs have formed a cooperative society, have managed to
save Rs. 67,000 from the income of the 2001-02 crop on a joint account, and the reported individual
monthly incomes deriving from the pilot project were Rs.814 in March 2002, and Rs.920 in September
2002. The efforts of the facilitating NGO helped to access funds from the Swiss Development Agency to
start a dairy unit employing 5 EPAPs. The project was revisited during the November 2003 supervision
mission and it remains an approach that CIL is considering for other subsidiaries. No precise updated
income figures were collected but information obtained indicated that workers were receiving
approximately Rs. 40 per day in wages.

Review of CIL's R&R Policy: During the midterm review, it was agreed between CIL and the Bank, that
CIL would constitute a committee by April 1999 to review CIL's R&R Policy . A joint CIL/Bank
                                                                                 17


workshop to review and update the policy was scheduled for the November 1999 mission, then postponed
till the March 2000 mission since the report from CIL's committee was not finalized, and eventually never
held. Instead, CIL introduced a revised R&R Policy in March 2000, which furnished the PAPs with
additional options as follows:

·        A one time infrastructural development grant of Rs. 50,000 in lieu of a house plot in a resettlement
site for displaced PAPs. This payment is in addition to the compensation for loss of homestead land and
house, and is calculated as the average value of the resettlement plot, the resettlement site infrastructure,
plus the transition allowance (comprising a `shifting allowance' of Rs. 2,000 and a `lump sum grant' of Rs.
5,000).
·        Monetary compensation in lieu of a mine job for land losers whose loss of land entitled them to
mine employment. The payment will be Rs. 100,000 for the first acre of land, or pro-rata payment subject
to a minimum of Rs. 25,000. For the 2nd and 3rd acre, the compensation will be 75,000, and Rs. 50,000
on pro-rata basis for land above 3 acres. This payment is in addition to land compensation. The Bank had
no objection to this strengthening of CIL's R&R Policy, but that changes and clarifications regarding
entitlements and economic rehabilitation were required to make the policy consistent. Some, but not all of
the recommended modifications were adopted in the revised policy. As a result, the revised R&R policy
was not approved by the Bank. However, CIL has continued to provide the one time infrastructural
development grant of Rs. 50,000 in lieu of a house plot in a resettlement, and the Bank has no objection to
this measure, which provides the PAPs with an additional resettlement option.



                                                     - 16 -

B2. Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (Outout Rating: Satisfactory)

For the 24 mines with neighboring villages that are not affected by land acquisition and located within a
one kilometer radius of the leasehold of the mine, CIL submitted annual mine-specific IPDPs for every
calendar year from 1998 onwards. Following Bank reviews, the revised annual IPDPs were implemented
by mine level CIL staff assisted by the facilitating NGOs. A total of 172 villages have been covered by
IPDP activities against an SAR target of 189 villages. This change in the number of IPDP target villages
is primarily caused by a merging for operational and planning purposes of smaller hamlets originally
identified as independent target villages.

While designed to establish compliance with the Bank's Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples,
the IPDPs were not focused exclusively on the population from Scheduled Tribes in villages neighboring
the project mines. Since these villages contained a mixed population comprising Scheduled Tribes (STs),
Scheduled Castes (SCs), Other Backward Castes (OBCs), and caste Hindus, an exclusive targeting of the
STs would have been divisive. Instead, the IPDPs were conceived as community development activities,
which provided benefits to tribals and non-tribals alike.

The IPDPs developed during project preparation in 1995 were only considered indicative in terms of the
actions described. Subsequent project implementation was based on participatory planning of annual
action plans by Village Working Groups (VWGs) nominated by the villagers and representing different
sections of the beneficiary communities, together with cost contribution towards capital costs and
maintenance of joint community assets, and community responsibility for operation and maintenance of
such assets. The VWGs had an average of 13 members. The composition of the VWGs has largely
corresponded to the population composition of the beneficiary communities, with the exception of CCL,
where the proportion of VWG members from Scheduled Tribes was considerably higher than their
proportion of the target population. Although initially limited, women over time gained a stronger
representation in the VWGs, and constituted around 30% of the members by the closure of the project. The
composition and role of the VWGs have contributed noticeably to give both women and other marginal
groups a stronger voice in village affairs (Annex 11c).

The IPDPs comprised three types of activities, namely (i) asset creation comprising joint village facilities
including drinking water supply, public buildings such as school classrooms, and irrigation facilities, (ii)
skills development such as book keeping, contract management, training for income generation, or adult
literacy, and (iii) various community activities ranging from health awareness to plantation of wastelands.
In the 172 villages with annual IPDP action plans, a total of 721 joint community assets were created
(averaging four per village), 883 skills development activities (averaging five per village), and 1,575
community activities (averaging nine per village) (Annex 11d).

VWGs were involved as contractors in the civil works for community facilities. The capacity established
with regard to contract management has enabled some VWGs to execute small contracts for the Panchayats
and/or the mines. Income generation activities were undertaken in a total of 139 villages (81% of total).
Altogether 4,545 persons were involved in this activity, with women constituting 49%. A total of 198 Self
Help Groups were formed, mainly with women members, and 95% of these were functioning by project
closure. Most of the Self Help Groups were organized around saving and credit schemes (93%).

The annual IPDPs for 2002 comprised an exit strategy with added emphasis on arrangements to ensure the
sustainability of VWGs, Self Help Groups, and maintenance of community assets. In MCL, SECL, and
WCL, the VWGs have agreed with the local Gram Panchayats that these would take over the community


                                                     - 17 -

assets for future maintenance. Whether the Panchayats will be able and willing to manage this
responsibility over the long term remains to be seen. In Jharkand, where Panchayats do not exist, the
VWGs formed in IPDP villages under CCL have established an apex organization to interact with local
authorities regarding development assistance, but have not introduced any arrangements for collection of
user charges or contributions towards maintenance costs from the beneficiaries. Only in the IPDP villages
under NCL where assets have not been transferred to Panchayats, and in some of the IPDP villages in
SECL, has a system of user charges to cover expenditures related to maintenance of community assets been
established (comprising 34% of all IPDP villages). By project closure, maintenance of community assets
had been undertaken in 27% of the IPDP villages, giving cause for some optimism regarding sustainability.
(Annex 11e).

B3. Environmental Action Plans (Outut Tating: Satisfactory)

Environmental monitoring is being carried out at all project mines by external agencies. Data are collected
on a fortnightly basis on (i) air quality at production sites, mine quarters, and surrounding villages, (ii)
noise levels at production sites, mine quarters, and surrounding villages, (iii) water quality of treated
effluent from workshop and mine effluent treatment facilities as well as sewage treatment plants, and (iv)
drinking water quality at mine quarters and in neighboring villages. The monitoring information is
communicated to the respective State Pollution Control Boards that issue the annual Environmental
Consent Letters, which are required for a continuation of mining.

Reclamation of over burden (OB) dumps: Based on studies and expert reviews, the number of OB dumps
requiring reclamation was reduced from the original SAR estimate of 150 to 119 following the preparation
of the "Overall Action Plan for OB dump Safety and Stability". The action plan was approved in August
1998 by a technical expert consultant from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur and by the
Bank. The table below reflects the status and distribution of the 119 OB dumps identified in this Action
Plan by subsidiary:

      Subsidiary          Reclamation         Active Dumps          Already         Ring Dumping
                        under CSESMP                              Reclaimed*
   NCL                          9                   4                 10                  1
  MCL                          23                   -                  -                   -
  WCL**                        21                   -                  -                   -
  SECL                         18                   3                 18                   -
  CCL***                        4                   -                  8                   -
   Total                       75                   7                 36                  1
  *Not funded through the ESMP; **Seven dumps done departmentally, ***One dump done departmentally


Implementation of reclamation works on the 75 overburden dumps selected for reclamation work with
CSESMP funding began between September 1999 and January 2001, and civil works were completed by
December 2001 followed by plantation activities completed by the 2002 monsoon period (Annex 11f).

Use of top soil: The recommendation by the study on the use of top soil in OB dump reclamation, that top
soil be stored separately and then spread on reclaimed dumps, is not practiced in all mines. However, all
mines make use of top soil to promote the growth of vegetation on reclaimed OB dumps (Annex 11f).
Instead of separate top soil storage, many mines practice what is termed "concurrent application of top
soil". This practice involves that top soil when removed is immediately spread on OB dumps that have
reached their planned height or on the portion of backfilled quarries (internal dumps) that are level with the
surrounding area.



                                                      - 18 -

Workshop and mine effluent treatment plants have been established in all 25 project mines. In NCL and
MCL, the mine and workshop effluent treatment facilities are integrated, while CCL, SECL, and NCL have
separate treatment facilities for mine and workshop effluent (Annex 11g). Operation and maintenance is
carried out by mine staff in all project mines. It is attempted to achieve zero discharge of treated effluent
water for all effluent treatment plants. To date, this has only been fully achieved in 13 of the mines (see
Annex 11g). The treated effluent water is primarily used for washing of vehicles, and spraying against dust
on roads used for coal transport within the mine leasehold.

Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs): The recommendation of the study of bio-contamination of sub-soil
water from domestic effluent required construction of 21 STPs, all of which are completed and functioning
(Annex 11h). The Ministry of Environment & Forest guidelines which require fortnightly sampling are
being followed in all subsidiaries. Monitoring data on treated effluent water for July 2002 show that all
STPs are within permissible limits, except one (Kusmunda, SECL, where Biochemical Oxygen Demands
(BOD) values for May 2002 slightly exceeded the permissible limit, see Annex 11h). Operation and
maintenance of all the STPs have been given on contract, with the exception of CCL where it is done
departmentally. In June 2001, it was agreed between CIL and the Bank that planning and physical
arrangements should be made by August, 2001 for emergency and scheduled shutdowns of the domestic
effluent treatment plants (DETPs). These measures are described in Annex 11h. All mines are planning to
use the treated effluent water for either spraying against dust within the mine area (as currently practiced in
Samleswari, MCL), or to provide it for irrigation (as practiced in Jhingurda, NCL). Only in Parej East has
the workforce objected to the use of treated effluent water for dust spraying since it is considered unclean.

Dust suppression: In response to the need for enhanced dust suppression measures in addition to those
prescribed in the EMPs, a revised dust suppression plan was agreed between CIL and the Bank in August
1999. The range of dust suppression measures implemented by different mines are described in Annex 11i.
While dust suppression has improved, monitoring data on Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) continue to
show values in excess of the permissible limit of 200 micro-gr/m3 for habitations for some mines .   18


Significant contributing factors to excessive dust levels are coal transport by contractors using overloaded
and uncovered trucks, badly maintained public and mine roads, and pay loader operated coal loading at rail
sidings. Only one subsidiary -WCL - has enforced the use of weighing stations to prevent overloading and
the use of tarpaulins on trucks transporting coal. However, the CIL mines are not the only source of dust
pollution, and effective improvement of air quality will require a coordinated effort involving the Thermal
Power Stations, local industries, non-CIL mines, and proper road maintenance by the relevant state
authorities. The need for such coordination was emphasized in the SAR and has been raised by previous
supervision missions, but no progress has been reported by CIL on this.

Tree plantation: A target of plantation of 2.68 million trees has been achieved, and in addition plantation
of trees (and other vegetation including grasses) has been undertaken on reclaimed OB dumps (see Annex
11f and 11i).

Impacts by mining on wildlife habitats: To assess the validity of concerns raised by external advocacy
NGOs, a study was undertaken in 2000 to assess the impact of mining on tiger and elephant habitats
around the three project mines under CCL in Bihar. The study established that (a) the major changes
involving a critical reduction in forest cover, wildlife habitats and migration routes took place long before
the start of the Bank funded projects, and (b) by 1997, i.e. before the start of the CSRP, tiger sightings
were no longer reported for the areas of the three Bank supported mines. On this background, the Bank
(and CIL) did not find it necessary to undertake any further activities related to this issue. A stakeholder



                                                      - 19 -

workshop with participation by local environmental NGOs, the Forest Department, MoEF, CIL, and the
Bank to discuss the methodology of the study was held in Delhi in March, 2000. A second stakeholder
workshop to discuss the findings and recommendations of the study was held in Ranchi in October, 2000.

(C) Social Remedial Action Component. (Satisfactory)

This component provided funds for the preparation and implementation of social remedial action programs
for three coal mine projects that had received Bank support in the past: Dudhichua Coal Project in NCL,
Jharia Coking Coal Project in BCCL, and the Coal Mining Quality Improvement Project which included
Gevra mine in SECL. CIL conducted three tracer studies for Gevra, Dudhichua and Block II in Jharia
through independent consultants in 1994 and 1995 to identify below-poverty-line PAPs residing within a 5
kilometer radius of the mines, who required remedial assistance to restore their incomes. In April 1997, at
the request of the Bank, CIL had two of these studies verified (no below-poverty-line PAPs were identified
for Block II in Jharia) by two independent NGO consultants. The studies identified 10 PAPs in Dudhichua,
and 87 in Gevra. CIL has provided jobs with mine contractors to the 10 entitled PAPs in Dudhichua and to
7 in Gevra. Apart from this, the efforts regarding income restoration by CIL have been largely ineffectual.
However, a census in 1998 by the Madhya Pradesh State authorities showed that all of the PAPs identified
in the tracer study for Gevra now had incomes above the poverty line.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

In view of the close linkage between CSESMP and CSRP, quantification of the financial and economic
benefits of the latter is used for this section and Section 4.4 as was the case in the SAR for the CSESMP.

The combined CSRP/CSESMP project yielded a positive expected economic NPV of US$593 million, at
16% discount rate. With the exception of CCL's KD. Hesalong mine for which benefits could not be
quantified, the investments in all the remaining 23 mines included in the project yielded economic rates of
return in excess of 16% per year.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The overall financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated to be 55%. The project as a whole yielded positive
expected financial NPV of US$397 million, at 16% discount rate. Four observations are noted:

    (i) The economic and financial NPVs are estimated to be lower than the expected values estimated at
    appraisal. The main reasons are: less than anticipated increase in output and lower investments as a
    result of the cancellation of the uncommitted portion of the loan; higher then expected operating costs;
    and lower than anticipated grade of coal extracted in the case of a few mines e.g. Parej East.

    (ii) Even though the economic and financial NPVs are lower than those estimated at appraisal, NPVs
    are still positive. The reasons relate to the nature of the investment project: a large number of the mine
    sub-projects are characterized by investments with short gestation periods in profitable mines.

    (iii) The difference between the economic and financial NPVs has decreased. This is mainly due to the
    narrowing of the differential between the economic and the financial prices.

    (iv) While investments in the specific coal mines supported under CSRP are financially and
    economically viable, the long-term sustainability of the Coal sector depends on factors well beyond



                                                      - 20 -

    output increases such as:policy; regulatory and institutional reforms; , and a continued growth in the
    demand for coal in India.

The results of the financial and economic analysis of each of the 24 mine projects; and the underlying
assumptions are presented in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Overall rating: Modest

A World Bank Project Division (WBPD) was established at CIL headquarters to oversee preparation and
implementation of the two Bank supported projects, and 25 officers responsible for RAP and IPDP
implementation were posted at the project mines. After CSRP approval, the WBPD was restructured into
two separate units to improve project management. In March 1997, CIL established a new cadre for
environmental mitigation staff, and another for staff involved in resettlement and rehabilitation.

The capacity of the WBPD regarding social mitigation activities has remained limited throughout the
project period, whereas that on environmental mitigation has been stronger. The external consultants
employed to provide support on socio-economic issues have not had the qualifications required to add value
to implementation supervision or to review TA reports or annual RAPs and IPDPs, nor have they
contributed to build the capacity of CIL staff in the WBPD. At the closure of the project, the
socio-economic consultant was terminated, and the WBPD has minimal staff with capacity to deal with
social mitigation issues.

The organizational structure of CIL, which provides the subsidiaries with a large measure of autonomy
vis-à-vis its headquarters, has limited the ability of the WBPD to provide the required direction on
implementation of its corporate policies. This has been particularly noticeable with regard to resettlement
and rehabilitation, where implementation of actions agreed between CIL and the Bank to promote income
restoration were subsequently left to the discretion of each subsidiary.

The establishment of the two new cadres during the project period did provide the expected organizational
framework for an institutionalization of environmental and social mitigation capacity, which could furnish
the basis for a utilization of lessons learned in project and non-project mines. Both of the two new cadres
encountered problems in attracting staff, more so the R&R cadre compared to the environmental cadre.
Few of the officers posted to the cadres have opted for permanent absorption into the cadre, since they did
not view the new cadres as a career option equivalent to that of other cadres in CIL. The primary reason
for this has been, that the new cadres were not established as corporate entities, and that the number of
posts at different grade levels was not defined and staffed, so that career prospects within the cadres
remained uncertain. CIL's Institutional Strengthening Action Plan from November 2000 does not resolve
this issue. Without a structure that provides career prospects comparable to the rest of the corporation, the
staff that have acquired experience are likely to seek transfers to other branches of CIL, and the capacity
established during the project will be dissipated. Since the closure of the project a separate Environmental
cadre has been established and more attention is being paid to these aspects of CIL's activities. There are no
plans to develop a separate R&R cadre and currently officers dealing with such issues are largely drawn
from their parent Personnel cadre.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                       - 21 -

(i) Inspection Panel. The project came under Inspection Panel investigation following a complaint letter
regarding the Parej East mine in CCL from the Chotanagpur Adivasi Sewa Samiti (CASS) dated June 14,
2001. The concerns in the Request for Inspection dealt exclusively with actions carried out under the
project. The Request alleged violations of Operational Directives 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, 4.20
on Indigenous Peoples, 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, and 13.05 on Project Supervision. The Request
also alleged violations of OPN 11.03 on Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects, and
of BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information. A response from Bank Management was provided
on July 19, 2002, and additional responses on follow-up questions from the Inspection Panel were provided
in April and November 2002. Progress on the production of the ICR was halted during the period of the
investigation. The final Inspection Panel report was submitted to the Board on November 25, 2002. The
Management Report and Recommendation in response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report
(No.24000) was distributed on May 6, 2003. The Inspection Panel's Report together with Management's
Report and Recommendation were considered by the Executive Directors at a meeting on July 22, 2003.
Management proposed to continue supervising the project until June 2004. The supervision effort would
focus on economic rehabilitation of PAPs who had suffered a decrease in income, the settlement of claims
for PAPs cultivating land under customary tenure, the provision of long term leases for PAP house plots in
the resettlement site, and the disbursement of a subsistence allowance to entitled PAPs in Parej East. (For
details see Annex 8).

(ii) Resettlement and issuing of ID cards were both delayed or incomplete in MCL due to resistance from
PAPs, who were involved in court cases regarding the compensation allotted to them. These PAPs had
refused to receive ID cards, which listed their entitlements, since they believed that this would amount to an
acceptance of the compensation they were challenging in court, and other PAPs not involved in the court
cases had also adopted the same position. In addition to the incomplete issuing of ID cards, the court cases
and PAP resistance also resulted in delays in resettlement. To cope with such delays, contingency mine
plans were developed which meant that mining would bypass the villages resisting resettlement, leaving a
300 m gap between the quarry and the nearest habitation.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Submission of disbursement claims: Processing and submission by GOI of claims for reimbursement
have been subject to significant delays.

(ii) Long term leases for house plots in resettlement sites: At the CSRP negotiations in July 1997,
Government of India (GOI) made a commitment to provide long term leases for house plots in resettlement
sites (para 38 in Minutes of CSRP Negotiations). However, even at project closure, land titles (Pattas) for
house plots in resettlement sites on land acquired under the Coal Bearing Areas Act (CBAA) were not
issued to PAPs by GOI. Similarly, although commitments were made during project implementation, GOI
did not issue a lease agreement providing user rights and security of tenure to PAPs involved in the
land-based income restoration pilot project under implementation in SECL. CIL was asked in November
2003 to again lobby the Ministry of Coal and the Law Ministry to seek resolution to this long-standing
issue.

(ii) Compensation for land held under customary tenure: At the CSRP negotiations, GOI also made a
commitment to ensure compensation for acquisition of land held under customary tenure (para 39 in
Minutes of CSRP Negotiations). In the Parej East mine in CCL , where PAPs have claimed rights in land
                                                                  19


held under customary tenure (Ghair Mazurva Khas (GMK) land) , authentication of such claims and


                                                      - 22 -

provision of compensation has been substantially delayed, and was not completed by project closure.
CIL/CCL were asked in November 2003 to further clarify and resolve any outstanding claims by PAFs in
Parej East. Information from CIL/CCL provided to this latest mission indicated that in Borwa Tola (Parej
village) 26 cases were refered to the State Authorities. GMK land has been authenticated and settled in
favor of 13 PAFs, covering 27.21 acres. Authentication was rejected for 13 PAFs, covering 21.85 acres. 8
of these 13 PAFs have filed cases with the State Tribunal. Compensation for 2 of the 13 PAFs is expected
to be completed soon. Compensation could not be paid to 2 PAFs because they did not turn up in payment
camps and in the 1 remaining case there is a dispute over the name on the record. In Duru (Kasmar) village
15 cases have been referred to the State Authorities. GMK land has been authenticated and settled in favor
of 9 PAFs covering 33.27 acres. Compensation for an additional 6 PAFs covering 10.85 acres is currently
under review and is expected to be completed soon.An area of 28.52 acres is presently not required for
mining and the occupants will therefore not be disturbed.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

(i) Implementation. Although the project became effective in July 1996, implementation began only in
earnest towards the end of 1997. Despite the steady incremental overall implementation progress since
then, progress has been uneven across project mines, and CIL's commitment has remained problematic
especially with regard to the two key areas of economic rehabilitation of PAPs, and institutional reform to
enhance CIL's social management capabilities, despite some progress with environmental management
capacity building. Despite agreements between CIL headquarters and the individual subsidiaries, which
linked adequate performance on environmental and social mitigation to continued investment funding from
the CSRP loan, the WBPD was only given limited scope for providing the subsidiaries with direction on
implementation of CIL's corporate policies.

(ii) Procurement: Across subsidiaries, the status of procurement was considerably behind schedule, due
primarily to delays in finalizing plans for domestic effluent treatment plants and overburden dump
reclamation activities.

(iii) Disbursement: The disbursement status was poor during most of project implementation. Two factors
that contributed to this have been CIL's late submission of Project/SOE audit reports for 1997 and 1998,
which resulted in the suspension of disbursements in April 1999. CIL submitted both audit reports to the
Bank in November, 1999 and the suspension of disbursements was lifted in December 1999. The second
factor has been the procurement delays which continued to hinder disbursements.

(iv) Strengthening of CIL's Social and Environmental Management Capability has been curtailed by four
factors:

         · The study that should inform an institutional strengthening action plan was scheduled to start
within six months of project effectiveness, but was delayed for about three years. Terms of reference for
the study were agreed in July 1997, but in September 1998, CIL requested revision of the original TOR
involving a separation of the TOR for the study and implementation phases. Selection of a consultant was
delayed until February 1999. Due to CIL's reluctance to issue the work order, the start of work was
delayed until March 2000, and the study was completed by October 2000. Based on the recommendations
of the study, an Institutional Strengthening Action Plan was drafted by CIL by November 2000. However,
a dispute regarding interpretation of the consultancy contract and final payment blocked the extension of
the contract with the original consultant, and a replacement was only engaged in April 2002. This late start
made it impossible to complete the TA activities related to the action plan by the project closing date .
                                                                                                      20




                                                     - 23 -

         · The environmental and social cadres have not provided a viable organizational framework for an
institutionalization of environmental and social mitigation capacity, and the Institutional Strengthening
Action Plan does not address this issue nor does it provide an alternative organizational model likely to
achieve this institutionalization and retain the capacity created during the project.

         · The continuation of the social mitigation policies is problematical. The IPDP approach was
discontinued at project closure, although elements of it may be revived with the new corporate Community
Development Policy currently under discussion. While RAPs may be used as a planning instrument in new
mines, none of the 14 project mines with land acquisition have annual RAPs to deal with resettlement and
rehabilitation beyond the project closing date.

         · The socio-economic consultants contracted to assist the WBPD were too few and did not have the
required qualifications. After project closure, the WBPD has discontinued hiring external socio-economic
consultants, and currently has no in-house capacity in this area.

(v) Financial issues: A number of financial issues have slowed down project implementation: (a) whereas
the agreed budget period for the annual IPDPs and RAPs was the calendar year, CIL initially approved
IPDP and RAP budgets and released funds based on its own budget schedule from April 1 to March 31.
The result was delays in the start-up of activities, often as long as nine months, since approval of budgets
by subsidiaries normally took a couple of months, after which the monsoon delayed start-up of construction
activities until around October. (b) Even though CIL increased the financial powers of Chief General
Managers (up to Rs. 200,000) and Project Officers (up to Rs.100,000) in mid-1998, this strengthening of
financial powers was in practice applied only to civil works, and not to other activities such as capacity
building and training or community activities in IPDP villages. The result was delays in the start-up
activities and the resultant frustration on the part of the villagers. (c) Both CCL and SECL experienced
delays with regard to payments for work done and bills submitted by VWGs contracted to implement civil
works because of the lack of timely flow of funds from subsidiary headquarters to the mines.

(vi) Environmental mitigation activities have often been completed behind schedule due to delays
regarding (a) the TA studies intended to inform the mitigation activities, (b) the mitigation plans
incorporating recommendations from the TA studies, and (c) bid evaluation and contractor selection. Thus,
delayed finalization of mitigation plans meant, that implementation of workshop and mine effluent
treatment plants were completed about eight months late. Delayed finalization of mitigation plans and
lengthy contractor selection meant, that sewage treatment plants were completed about 21 months after the
original target date. Delays in the finalization of an acceptable study and an agreed mitigation plan for OB
dump reclamation resulted in 9 to 13 months delays in the start-up of implementation.

(vii) Income restoration: Despite the information and consultation undertaken by NGOs and mine staff,
entitled PAPs were very reluctant to join the income restoration schemes since they were skeptical
regarding the commitment and ability of the mines to provide sustainable alternatives to jobs in the mines,
and at the same time believed that their participation would jeopardize future prospects of getting a mine
job. CIL's implementation of income restoration through self-employment did not allay this skepticism,
since the assistance for self-employment has not been consistently implemented as an integrated package
(comprising skills training, investment support, and market linkages) in all project mines or for all the
different types of skills training provided.

(viii) Land-based income generation: The agreement during the midterm review mission in



                                                      - 24 -

February/March 1999, that CIL would engage consultants to develop approaches for five pilot projects for
land based income generation, constituted a positive step towards enhancing CIL's capacity to deal with
economic rehabilitation of PAPs. However, CIL's decision, as communicated in its letter of December 10,
1999, that pilot projects would only be started in SECL and MCL represented a first retraction of the
original commitment. Eventually, only one pilot project was started in SECL in July 2000. While this
pilot project represents a significant step towards exploring a potentially promising alternative option for
economic rehabilitation of PAPs, the reduction in the number of pilots from five to one and the delayed
start-up of the pilot have limited the usefulness of the initiative and excluded the possibility of generating
lessons regarding its replicability within the project period.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was US$ 52.51 million compared with the SAR estimate of US$84.0 million.
The lower cost was due to the devaluation of Indian Rupees against US$, reduction in the volume of OB
dump work, and a mathematical error in the SAR category for technical assistance. There was also a
reduction to the total project cost of approx. $0.9 million, resulting from a more realistic assessment of the
cost of land acquisition. Likewise, there was reduction in the actual award of contracts on technical
assistance.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The assessment of project sustainability below is based on the overall project status by the project closing
date. Since CIL's corporate structure provides its subsidiaries with a large measure of autonomy vis-à-vis
its corporate headquarters, an assessment of the sustainability of different project components will have to
be done at the corporate level and also, where relevant, at the level of the subsidiaries.

Capacity Building Component

This component comprised different technical studies and TA linked to specific sub-components and
included a study on Strengthening of CIL's Social and Environmental Management Capability to enhance
CIL's institutional effectiveness in these areas. As described above, initiation of the study and contracting
of a consultant to provide the TA for implementation of CIL's Institutional Strengthening Action Plan was
seriously delayed. Moreover, the WBPD at CIL headquarters lacked the required capacity on social
mitigation to guide the TA consultant, and provide support and supervision for staff at the subsidiary and
mine level. CIL has at present no defined institutional structure for officers working on social issues with
clear staff roles, responsibilities, incentives and career prospects. This lack of capacity and institutional
framework renders problematical the enhancement of CIL's capacity to deal more effectively with social
issues in a sustainable manner. Since the end of the project period a separate cadre for staff dealing with
Environmental issues has been established.

The absence of a defined guiding and oversight role for the WBPD vis-à-vis the subsidiaries and the very
different social and political contexts in the different States has resulted in different strategies for individual
subsidiaries with different implications regarding the sustainability of the environmental and social
mitigation capacity established under the CSESMP. As shown in the table below, the planned or actual
application of lessons learned by different subsidiaries involve almost exclusively environmental mitigation
activities. The commitment to use lessons learned regarding social mitigation is low, and capacity has
decreased since the contracts with the facilitating NGOs have been terminated at project closure.



                                                       - 25 -

       Non-CSE     Non-CS           Applicati
       SMP         ESMP             on of
       mines       mines            lessons
                                    learned
                                    (number
                                    of mines)
        Existing   Planned    Tot   Mine        Worksho    Sewage      OB        RAPs   IPDPs
        mines      new        al    effluent    p effluent treatment   dump
                   mines            treatment   treatment  plants      recla-m
                                    plants      plants                 ation
CCL        26         0       26        0           1          0          0       0          0
MCL         8         3       11        11         11          3          11      3          0
NCL        8          3       11        6           6          7          2       0          0
                                    (integra-   (integra-
                                       ted         ted
                                     plants)     plants)
SECL       12         0       12        0           1          0          0       0          0
WCL        24         1       25        19         17          1          22      4          0
Total      78         7       85      30+6        30+6        11          35      7          0


The ICR mission's assessment of current capacity and the likelihood of this capacity being maintained or
strengthened under existing conditions is provided below. The most recent supervision mission of
November 2003 finds no reason for changing this categorization.

                                    NCL           MCL        CCL         SECL           WCL
Environmenta     Capacity          Strong        Medium    Medium        Strong        Strong
l
               Sustainabilit   Highly Likely21    Likely   Unlikely      Likely    Highly Likely22
                     y
Social           Capacity           Weak          Weak      Weak          Weak        Medium
               Sustainabilit      Unlikely       Unlikely  Unlikely     Unlikely        Likely
                     y


Investment Component

On the investment side, CIL has achieved positive results with regard to the implementation of
Environmental Action Plans and Indigenous Peoples Development Plans, whereas implementation of
Resettlement Action Plans has been inadequate and may be incomplete. The results of the analysis of



                                                   - 26 -

income restoration to be completed by June 2004 will determine whether this has been completed.

Sustainability of the different investment components vary both with regard to the components themselves,
and for specific components in different subsidiaries. With some variation across the subsidiaries, the
different environmental mitigation sub-components are likely to be sustainable, as are most of the assets
and self-help groups established through the IPDPs, whereas the resettlement site infrastructure, which is
viewed by the PAPs as a CIL responsibility, and as a state responsibility by CIL, is already deteriorating.
In the context provided by overall economic growth, it is likely that the assistance from CIL for income
restoration, albeit limited in scope, will be sustainable, as will that achieved independently of CIL by many
PAPs.

The sustainability of the corporate policies, on which the investment activities have been based vary. While
the sustainability of the Environmental Policy appear likely, since it is recognized as a necessary means to
achieve compliance with Indian environmental regulations, implementation of the two social mitigation
policies is unlikely to be sustainable. Without the commitment to develop a well defined staff structure at
both the corporate and subsidiary level, and without the capacity at the headquarter level to provide quality
training and supervision, the sustainability of CIL's R&R Policy as an instrument for adequate planning
and implementation of RAPs seems unlikely. Moreover, none of the 14 mines with RAPs have any
follow-up planning in place to continue the annual RAPs implemented during the project period, and there
are no plans to continue to use the electronic PAP database for monitoring of RAP implementation.
Sustainability of the IPDP policy (Community Development Plan) is unlikely in all subsidiaries, since they
plan to abandon the community driven development (CDD) approach defined by this policy in favor of the
pre-project top-down approach through `periferal development committees'. CIL's draft Community
Development Policy currently under consideration does combine some of the elements of the former IPDP
policy but is unlikely to be as effective unless significant additional human resources are applied to its
implementation.

Social Remedial Action Component

An action plan was agreed between CIL and the Bank in June, 1997, regarding remedial income restoration
assistance for below-poverty-line PAPs affected under previous Bank supported projects in Gevra, SECL,
and Dudhichua, NCL. Its implementation provided employment for the limited caseload in Dudhichua and
for part of that in Gevra. Since a census in 1998 by the Madhya Pradesh State authorities showed that all
of the PAPs identified in the original tracer study for Gevra now had incomes above the poverty line, the
component is likely to be sustainable.

Overall project sustainability

Unlikely. Despite the progress that has taken place particularly with regard to environmental mitigation,
overall sustainability with regard to project outputs, policies and instruments (IPDPs, RAPs, and the PAP
database), and capacity has not been achieved. In the absence of a defined institutional structure for social
mitigation, a commitment to continue to use the two social mitigation policies and the associated
instruments, and capacity at the headquarter level to manage the social implementation dimensions of CIL's
Institutional Strengthening Action Plan and provide the required supervision and guidance to staff at the
mine and subsidiary levels, the capacity created and lessons learned during the project are unlikely to be
sustainable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:




                                                      - 27 -

Same as in Sec. 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal stages of the
project was unsatisfactory. The Bank did take into account the project's consistency with the government's
development priorities and the Bank's CAS and had a team with a good skills mix. The Bank had a
consistently good working relationship with the client, Coal India Limited (CIL), during all stages of the
project. During preparation the Bank did not adequately assess the degree of political and social resistance
to reforms and relied too much on government and CIL assurances of ability to implement and on their
interpretations of ground realities. The Bank also underestimated the difficulties of shifting the institutional
culture of CIL given the complexities of actors and locations that the project was expected to reach.
Greater attention might have been given to securing changes in national legislation governing the transfer
and ownership of land and rights governing compensation for those losing access to land held under
customary tenure arrangements. Greater attention might also have been given to securing 'buy in' at higher
management levels to the different ways of doing business that the project was being designed to
achieve.With hindsight, the delinking of the Coal Sector Reform Project from the CSESMP created
structural impediments to successful implementation that the supervision team had to grapple with
throughout implementation.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank did take into account for the project design the major relevant
aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional issues relating to procurement and financial
management, environmental, and consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies, but it overestimated the
ability of CIL and its subsidiaries to build meaningful participatory processes that responded to the needs
of diverse population groups and communities. During appraisal, the Bank also assessed the project's risks
and benefits. Project design might have been strengthened by a comprehensive institutional assessment to
identify measures to enhance CIL's environmental and social capacity, greater attention to issues
surrounding rights to customary land, closer attention to the issue of long-term leases in houseplots in
resettlement sites, the introduction of other economic rehabilitation options besides that of self-employment,
and a detailed description of the selected economic rehabilitation measures.

Consultation and participation with a wide variety of stakeholders under the project for both social and
environmental mitigation activities was a continuous process, and improved over time. During the
preparation phase consultations were limited and much was left to be worked out during the implementation
phase. With hindsight more attention might have been given to ensuring that the instruments for ensuring
stakeholder involvement were in place prior to implementation. There was some debate within the Bank
about the need to advance project preparation quickly and the amount of time required to undertake
meaningful consultations. The participation of stakeholders in decision making processes was novel and
experimental, both for the Bank and CIL at that time. Arrangements for ensuring greater involvement by
stakeholders was a theme emphasised by all Bank supervision missions to ensure that benefits reached
PAPs and that their interests were taken into account. At the beginning of implementation, in March 1995,
a two day workshop was held in Kolkata, on `Income Restoration and Self Employment Alternatives'
which included representatives from the project affected people. In addition, a number of state government
officials and a total of 41 NGOs participated. Subsequent workshops were organized at the subsidiary
level involving representatives from both the PAPs and NGOs. One of the outcomes of these consultations
was that PAPs were able to choose their plot in the resettlement site and the self-employment training



                                                    - 28 -

option which appealed to them.

7.2 Supervision:



Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Over the
six years of project implementation, there were 26 supervision missions, with an average of more than four
missions per year. The Bank-Client relationship was cordial and productive. Supervision teams included
specialists in social development, environment, mining engineering, soil mechanics, financial analysis,
resettlement and rehabilitation, energy economics, legal, procurement, and Bank operations.

Bank supervision of project implementation often included provision of technical assistance to the client.
Aide-Memoires were presented and discussed at the end of each mission at CIL headquarters in Kolkata,
and in Delhi at MoC and DEA. This alerted both CIL and the government to problems with project
execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner. The Form 590s and PSRs provided a realistic rating
of the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. The project supervision strived for a realistic assessment of the problems faced by the
project, and tried to facilitate solutions that promoted improved implementation, achievement of project
outcomes, and compliance with Bank policies. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank
assisted the client in defining concrete steps and a timetable for putting the program back on track. External
consultants were used for specific aspects of certain project components (see Section 4.2).

Over the life of the project, the Bank allocated sufficient resources to undertake the intense supervision
required by the scale and complexity of the project's physical and institutional activities. The resources
allocated for project supervision were considerably above the average for the South Asia Region. To
ensure the autonomy of CSESMP supervision in relation to the CSRP, which was managed by the Energy
Unit, the Bank placed the responsibility for task management and the associated supervision budget with
the Social Development Unit. There was continuity in membership of the supervision missions over the
implementation period and the team displayed considerable professionalism and dedication to the
achievement of success under complex and evolving circumstances.

As described above in the sub-section on Monitoring under Section 4.2(A), from April 1997 till project
closure a Project Implementation Supervision and Monitoring Consultant supplemented the supervision by
the Bank team. In addition, A Social and Environmental Review Panel comprising Indian and international
experts provided an independent assessment of CIL's policies and performance regarding environmental
and social mitigation.

In response to the Inspection Panel investigation and to complete activities identified during the ICR
mission, the Bank has committed to continue monitoring of the project until at least June 2004. The latest
supervision mission took place in November 2003. A further supervision mission is planned for early June
2004.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Unsatisfactory. Bank performance for Quality of Entry and for Development Outcomes is rated
unsatisfactory. Quality of supervision has been rated satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated
unsatisfactory.

Borrower



                                                      - 29 -

7.4 Preparation:

Unsatisfactory. Coal India's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory in terms of its
practical support for project preparation. However, Coal India did not display an adequate level of
commitment to the objectives of the project, as evidenced by reluctance to include in CIL's R&R Policy a
description in sufficient detail of economic rehabilitation measures, which could provide a clear guide to
effective income restoration during implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Unsatisfactory. The government did not provide enough support for the success of the project. It did not
effect a solution regarding the commitments made during the CSRP negotiations to provide long term leases
for house plots in resettlement sites and compensation for land held under customary tenure. Nor did the
government effect a solution to a commitment made during project implementation to establish security of
tenure for the PAPs involved in the land based income generation pilot on reclaimed and unused mine land.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Unsatisfactory. CIL's performance has been lacking in several respects. (a) The staffing of the WBPD
has been inadequate to provide the required supervision and guidance of social mitigation implementation at
the subsidiary and mine level, maintain and use the PAP database for monitoring and planning of economic
rehabilitation, and review consultant reports as well as the annual RAPs and IPDPs. (b) The establishment
of the environmental and social cadres was not followed up, during project implementation, by measures to
mainstream these throughout the company. At the same time, an alternative institutional framework that
will ensure the retention of the capacity and lessons learned during the project did not exist at the end of the
project period. Subsequent steps to develop an Environment cadre have gone some way to addressing
environmental concerns. (c) Implementation of both environmental mitigation activities (e.g. workshop and
mine effluent treatment plants, sewage treatment plants, and OB dump reclamation) and social mitigation
activities related to resettlement and rehabilitation have suffered significant delays, as did procurement and
disbursement. (d) Implementation of economic rehabilitation has been uneven across project mines, falling
short of the letter and spirit of CIL's R&R Policy. Agreements reached between CIL and the Bank during
implementation to strengthen economic rehabilitation measures have not been consistently executed. With
the cancellation of the main investment project the Bank lost some leverage in persuading CIL to take
concerted action or improve its implementation (e) The continuation of the social mitigation policies is
problematical as indicated by the abandoning by project closure of the IPDP approach, and the failure to
develop RAPs to deal with resettlement and rehabilitation beyond the project period in the 14 project mines
with land acquisition.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory. The overall performance of Coal India Limited was unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l The achievement of sustainable change in an organization with limited commitment and the size and
    complexity of Coal India Ltd. cannot be expected within the standard project period of five years. At
    the project design stage both the Bank and CIL were looking forward to a long term relationship and
    did not anticipate the eventual cancellation of the main investment loan for the Coal Sector
    Rehabilitation Project (CSRP). While the different subsidiaries agreed to the provisions outlined in
    schedule 9 of the Loan Agreement, the independence of the different subsidiaries mitigated against the



                                                      - 30 -

  development of a strong central authority to implement and supervise changes. In future agreements
  should be made directly with the implementing agencies, not simply with their parent holding
  companies.

l Mitigation activities that are implemented to establish compliance with national laws, and which are
  monitored by state agencies (such as those relating to environmental mitigation) have a higher
  likelihood of success than mitigation activities that are not subject to similar compliance requirements.
  The Bank should be actively involved in improving the policy framework in key borrower countries.

l The planning and targets for organizational change need to be informed by a comprehensive and
  realistic institutional assessment undertaken as part of project preparation, which includes analysis of
  decision making (on planning, staffing, and release of funds), flows of information, incentives, and staff
  promotion criteria and avenues. A more deliberate phasing of activities and more systematic learning
  from those activities as the project progresses should be built into project design.

l Issues requiring decisions by ministries other than those responsible for project implementation (e.g. the
  Law Ministry regarding decisions on security of tenure for plots in resettlement sites and mine land
  allocated for land based income generation) should be made conditions of appraisal, and not left to be
  resolved during project implementation.

l Safeguard policy frameworks agreed with the borrower need to be specific and detailed on the
  obligations of the Borrower regarding assistance and entitlements. Determination of Borrower
  obligations cannot be left to decisions during project implementation. Thus, CIL's R&R Policy would
  have benefited from more detailed description of the entitlements of PAPs for self-employment (i.e.
  effective self-employment assistance cannot consist only of skills training, but need to include
  investment assistance, and assistance to establish market linkages).

l Effective income restoration for PAPs with a background as small farmers or landless laborers cannot
  be achieved by using as the primary instrument, assistance for self-employment as artisans, small
  businessmen and other non-land based activities. In the case of the CSESMP, other instruments
  (besides the provision of mine jobs to land losers above a certain threshold) were required, and the
  success of the piloting of land based income generation on unused and reclaimed mine land provides
  one model for an alternative instrument. The resettlement policy framework should offer as many
  options for income restoration as are feasible in a given context.

l Alternative resettlement options, which provided PAPs with a choice between a plot in a resettlement
  site and a cash grant enabling resettlement in a location selected by the PAPs, were introduced during
  project implementation, and have had a positive impact on overcoming PAP resistance to resettlement.
  Such options should be part of the entitlements provided by a Resettlement Policy Framework at
  project design and should include as many options for income restoration as are feasible in a given
  context.

l Community development activities such as the IPDPs need to incorporate a clear time-bound exit
  strategy for external support, which enables an assessment of the performance of organizational
  arrangements to promote sustainability (e.g. collection of funds for maintenance of joint assets,
  management of joint assets by village working groups or transfer of assets to Panchayats, viability of
  self-help groups) at a stage, which still leaves time during the project period for follow-up actions
  where problems exist.




                                                    - 31 -

l Effective improvement of air quality in a context with several polluting actors cannot be achieved
    solely by dust suppression measures implemented by the CIL mines, but will require a coordinated
    effort involving the Thermal Power Stations, local industries, non-CIL mines, together with proper
    road maintenance by the relevant state authorities.

l Clearer parameters at the outset for commissioned studies might have resulted in fewer delays in
    procurement, particularly for the effluent treatment study and the overburden dump study the results of
    which were initially rejected by respectively Coal India Ltd. and the Bank.

l The separation of environmental and social issues from the main investment loan reduced the leverage
    that the Bank was able to exert over CIL to take action to change policy or improve implementation,
    particularly following the cancellation of the main investment loan. In future, managing the safeguard
    risks of an investment should not be separated from the investments causing those risks; agreements
    should be made directly with the implementing agencies, not simply their parent holding companies.

l The development of an environmental awareness and of an environmental cadre in Coal India Ltd., was
    easier than the development of a social cadre. Attention to social issues requires a gradual evolutionary
    approach aligned more generally to shifts in overall institutional culture and future operations might
    wish to combine general training and capacity development in social issues for all senior management
    with the development of a particular cadre. Care should be taken to ensure that such a cadre is offered
    the same sorts of career opportunities as others in the company.

l For future operations of this nature, the use of an external monitoring and review panel should be
    factored into investment lending. This should be an integral part of country-wide safeguard capacity
    building and reflected in general policies and principles dealing with extractive industries.

l Project implementation units need to be strengthened, in particular with regard to skills required for the
    implementation of environmental and social action programs; Project Affected People (PAPs) must be
    informed about a project as soon as it is contemplated. Staff trained in community relations need to
    keep the affected people fully informed about a project and ensure full participation of all
    socio-economic strata of affected communities; if resettlement is involved, the process of consultation
    with regard to rehabilitation options and the choice of resettlement sites needs to be substantially
    completed before start-up of a project; and environmental management needs to be built into the design
    of the coal mine (e.g. plans for backfilling of overburden and reclamation of land).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Coal India's comments

(i) Assessment of the Borrower: Coal India, through implementation of CSESMP, was able to create an
organization in a structured manner, capable of taking up mitigation measures of the environmental and
social impacts arising out of coal mining activities. It is now in a position to implement the environmental
laws of the country in a better manner. The R&R issues are also being taken care of in a better manner.
Monitoring of environmental parameters in a standardized manner has been extended to the mines beyond
CSESMP project mines. Based on the experience in the CSESMP mines, CIL is now in a better position to
extend similar activities to other mines. Overall supervision of implementation and monitoring of
environmental and social activities has also improved.



                                                     - 32 -

(ii) Operational Experience: Overall implementation progress was initially slow and uneven and CIL's
commitment remained problematic especially with regard to key areas of economic rehabilitation of PAPs,
and institutional reform to enhance CIL's environmental and social management capabilities due to lack of
experience in the field of social management. Procedural delay in engaging facilitating NGOs also
contributed to slow progress of the project at the initial stage. Significant progress throughout 25 project
mines began only in the first half of 2000. Since then, CIL has demonstrated increasing commitment
regarding both environmental and social mitigation and there was noticeable implementation progress
thereafter.

Ranking the old external OB dumps, on the basis of hazard and risk involved and then formulating
reclamation action plans for their safety and stability on a large scale, has been a new experience for Coal
India.

While implementing the RAPs, in connection with resettlement and economic rehabilitation issues of the
PAPs, Coal India encountered a lot of rough weather in the beginning. It was a unique experience to
identify training trades for the PAPs, who are basically tribal and/or depend solely on agriculture. Further,
organizing self-employment schemes for the PAPs was also a difficult task in the beginning. The on-going
land based income generating scheme taken up by Coal India in SECL on a pilot basis is a novel idea for
economic rehabilitation of the PAPs, who are primarily familiar with agriculture.

Similarly, although Coal India has experience in doing Community Development activities, IPDP in the
form it has been included in the CSESMP, is a new experience. The response from the villagers and
facilitation by the NGOs equipped Coal India with a unique experience. Implementation of IPDPs has
caused less interruption of the mining activities by the people around than normally experienced.

(iii) Project sustainability: The project was implemented successfully. The sustainability of the system
installed can be assessed from a number of observations:

·         Social: The processes associated with the involvement of local communities were new and
untested for both CIL and the Bank. Therefore it took substantial time in the start up. But subsequently,
with the regular interaction with the local communities, it has taken proper shape.The IPDP activities taken
up in the villages are being pursued by the village working groups and the shelf-help groups in the IPDP
villages even after the closure of the CSESMP. This concept is being extended to other mines of WCL.
RAPs are being prepared for the new mines in compliance of the R&R policy of the company. Facilitating
NGOs are being engaged in subsidiaries for mitigation measures.

·         Environment: Environmental monitoring is undertaken in a standardized manner with regard to the
parameters, frequency of monitoring, and methods of testing in all the mines of Coal India. The dust
suppression arrangements made and effluent treatment plants commissioned in the mines are working
satisfactorily, and are being replicated in other mines beyond the ESMP project mines. The environmental
management division set in the company is functioning to carry on the systems established during
CSESMP. The three year action plan for institutional strengthening of Coal India is proving successful in
enhancing its strength through training, implementing the Environment Management System (EMS) of ISO
14001, and installation of geographical information systems.

(iv) Lessons Learned:




                                                     - 33 -

1.       Resettlement and rehabilitation of the PAPs has to be done keeping in view the customs, habits and
culture of the people. The resettlement sites need to be identified with participation of the PAPs. It has
been found that PAPs are more interested in getting the lump sum monetary compensation payment in lieu
of plots in the resettlement sites.
2.       It is necessary to have a permanent strength of personnel to deal with the environmental and social
mitigation measures. For inducing people to remain in this category of activities, some attraction is
required to be generated in the form of career development.
3.       Technical assistance greatly helped in formulating the action plans, particularly the involvement of
a soil technologist in the area of OB dump reclamation, and of NGOs in case of implementation of RAPs
and IPDPs.
4.       Transparency regarding the mining project construction to the PAPs is very much necessary for
getting full cooperation for physical acquisition of legally acquired land.
5.       The PAPs dealt with in the project were mainly agricultural workers and mostly tribal. To train
them in other trades and then develop entrepreneurship to make them capable of self- earning was a tough
job, particularly when they always dream of a comparatively high salaried mine job. Thus, it was not
possible to address the vast and complicated issues on social mitigation with complete success in the 25
geographically scattered open cast coal mines in such a short effective project period of three years time.
However, it was a very good objective which was started in a planned manner.
6.       While organizing training for the PAPs on skill development, the trainee PAPs should be
prioritized, so that only people interested in potential self employment are trained and not the people who
are interested only for the stipend during the training days.
7.       Success of self-employment schemes highly depends on arranging seed money for the people from
banks, government schemes, etc.
8.       Land based income generation schemes for the PAPs has huge scope in use of the reclaimed mine
lands and utilization of the effluent from the sewage treatment plants for irrigation.
9.       Community driven development program under IPDP is very useful and its sustainability depends
on handing over the assets for operation and maintenance under proper supervision of the Panchayats.
10.      Certain aspects like mine closure planning, and Social Impact Assessment should be properly built
in the Environment Management Plan itself, including the cost estimate.
11.      Creation of external OB dumps should be restricted to minimum as far as possible, and only during
initial phase of box cutting in the opencast mines. Then onwards, only back filling of over burden should be
practiced for concurrent land reclamation. A thought is required to be given in the EMP regarding the land
use plan of the reclaimed land with further improvement for land based income generation activities.

(v) Evaluation of the Bank: The Bank rendered highly professional and competent advice and assistance
from time to time in implementation of the project. The Bank missions visited all the project mines in the
subsidiaries adequate number of times to review the progress of implementation and gave necessary advice
to address the weak areas. During each visit, the World Bank officials held detailed discussions with the
consultants and the staff at corporate, area and project mine levels. Their suggestions and guidance during
deliberation on mitigation of the environmental and specially the complex issues on social aspect helped the
project achieve the objective largely. Assistance of the Bank in helping Coal India to develop an
organizational set up for environmental and social mitigation, and firming up different policies, and thus
enhancing the capability of the company in dealing with the management of environmental and social
issues, is highly appreciated.

The frequency of the Bank's supervision mission visit was quite high (average four per year). Beside Bank
mission visit there were visits of (i) Supervision and Monitoring consultant and (ii) Social and Environment
review panel. High frequency of such visits affects the normal progress of activities, as gestation time for
implementation as per supervision advice is very less.


                                                      - 34 -

At times the approach of the Bank was bureaucratic in nature, lacking proper appreciation of the ground
realities. The difficulty in achieving the targeted income restoration figure on the background of Indian
culture and habits needs to be understood and appreciated in a comprehensive manner.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

A. Coal India obligations beyond the project closing date

Not all CIL's commitments under the project were completed by project closure, and completion of these
remaining activities beyond the project closing date constitutes an obligation on the part of Coal India Ltd.
The remaining activities are listed as follows:

·          Complete economic rehabilitation activities to achieve income restoration for project affected
persons (PAPs) found to have suffered an income decline;
·          Complete delivery of compensation and relocation entitlements to all PAPs resettled under the
project;
·          Settle claims regarding land under customary tenure in Parej East mine, CCL;
·          Finalize the PAP database as an instrument for analysis of income restoration;
·          Provide PAPs in resettlement sites with long term leases to their house plots;
·          Complete implementation of the Institutional Strengthening Action Plan.

While the list above identifies these obligations, a final determination of the precise requirements for
completion of particular activities (e.g. economic rehabilitation, and delivery of resettlement entitlements) is
dependent on additional information. Subsequent supervision efforts following the closure of the project
and Management's response to the Inspection Panel Report are aimed at ensuring the delivery of these
commitments

B. ICR Team:

Asger Christensen (Task Team Leader)
Mohammad Hasan (Senior Social Development Specialist)
Samanta Forusz (Social Development Specialist)
Sati Achath (Consultant)

C. Endnotes

1. These policies are the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy of Coal India, Coal India's Community Development Plan (for planning and
implementation of Indigenous Peoples Development Plans), and Coal India's Corporate Environmental Policy.

2. Northern Coalfields Ltd (NCL) in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd (MCL) in Orissa, Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL)
in Maharashtra, Southeastern Coalfields Ltd (SECL) in Chattisgarh, and Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) in Jharkhand.

3. The three mines were Dudhichua Coal Project in NCL, Jharia Coking Coal Project in Bharat Coking Coal Ltd, and the Coal Mining Quality
Improvement Project which included Gevra mine in SECL.
4. CIL's Community Development Plan.
5. The study concluded that there was no significant impact on the ground water table by coal mining in NCL.




                                                                       - 35 -

6. The Review Panel has submitted four reports as follows: (1) October/November 1997; (2) June/July 1998; (3) May and August 1999, and (4) May
2000
7. This grant is calculated as the average value of the resettlement plot, the resettlement site infrastructure, plus the transition allowance (comprising a
`shifting allowance' of Rs. 2,000 and a `lump sum grant' of Rs. 5,000).

8. CCL has no plan in place as a follow-up to the annual RAPs used during the project period regarding the resettlement envisaged by March 2003

9. The threshold is two acres of irrigated land or three acres of non-irrigated land.

10. The SAR figure was 10,214. The current figure represents the total number of PAPs entitled for income restoration assistance, minus those that
have died since the 1997 PAP census (276)

11. SAR, Annex 2.4: Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy of Coal India, p 59, para 2.


12. Excludes EPAPs who have died or migrated.13. Reported income was considered any amount which is equal to or greater than zero.14. After
   adjusting for Inflation.

15. All figures have been adjusted for inflation.

16. All figures have been adjusted for inflation.

17. The committee consisted of the CMDs of SECL, MCL and NCL with the CGM, CSESMP as member secretary.

18. Thus, monitoring data from the period between October 2000 to April 2001 show excess dust levels in 30 colonies and villages in 11 mines, data
from October to December 2001 show 15 habitations with excess levels in 8 mines, and data from May to July 2002 show excess levels in 21
habitations in 11 mines. The problem of excessive dust levels is found most consistently in all the three project mines in CCL, and in some MCL and
WCL mines.

19. Ghair Mazurwa Khas (GMK) land was previously held by large landowners (zamindars), but was after independence either transferred to the
cultivators or to the state.

20. A total of 25 environmental auditors, 100 environmental officers, and 75 social mitigation officers (resettlement and rehabilitation) will be trained
under the TA. Manuals and training modules will be developed for (i) Environmental management (ii) land acquisition and resettlement, (iii) mine
planning; (iv) mine closure, (v) social impact assessments, (vi) Geographical Information System, and (vii) environmental performance auditing and
evaluation. It has been agreed between CIL and the Bank, that the components of the TA implemented before the project closing date would be funded
under the CSESMP Credit, and TA activities extending beyond the closing date by CIL.

21. NCL has obtained an ISO 14001 certification on environmental management, and its environmental mitigation
activities are being monitored by the State Pollution Control Board.


22. WCL has created an environmental cell at the subsidiary headquarters to coordinate and monitor planning of environmental mitigation activities in all mines under the
   subsidiary. A budget is allocated for environmental mitigation, and a handbook on environmental management has been prepared. WCL is also seeking an ISO 14001
   certification for the Padmapur and Durgapur mines.




                                                                                - 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Adoption of corporate policy in CIL for      Continuation of policies in project mines and Environmental Policy likely to be continued in
environmental and social aspects.                replication in non-project mines                both project and non-project mines.
                                                                                                 Community Development Plan (= IPDP
                                                                                                 Policy) will be discontinued. Plans to apply
                                                                                                 the R&R Policy in 7 new non-project mines,
                                                                                                 but not in project mines.

Creation of separate environmental and           Fully staffed and mainstreamed
CD/R&R and environmental cadres in CIL.          environmental and social mitigation cadres      Only the Environment cadre has been
                                                                                                 established as a corporate entity, the number
                                                                                                 of posts at different grade levels are not
                                                                                                 defined or fully staffed, and career prospects
                                                                                                 within the cadres remain uncertain.

Training of mines managers and CD/R&R            Mine, subsidiary, and HQ level staff fully      Despite repeated training, limited capacity at
staff                                            trained in regarding CIL policies, income       mine and subsidiary levels, and absence of
                                                 restoration, participation, and computerized    capacity at HQ level to manage social
                                                 information management (PAP database)           dimensions of CIL's Inst. Strengthening
                                                                                                 Action Plan and provide guidance to field
                                                                                                 staff.
Villages participating in IPDPs                  Revised target of 172 villages and hamlets      172 villages and hamlets assisted
                                                 (merging of hamlets for planning and
                                                 implementation purposes).

PAPs incomes restored                            Improvement or at least restoration of          Analysis of income restoration status ongoing
                                                 pre-project incomes for PAPs
Installation of dust suppression system.         Dust levels within permissible limits in all 25 Revised dust suppression plan implemented,
                                                 project mines                                   but dust levels still excessive in 21
                                                                                                 habitations in 11 mines
Construction of catch and garland drains,        Completed as part of mine and integrated        100%
drains to catch mine water, and settling         effluent treatment plants
ponds.
Construction of sewage treatment plants          21 operational sewage treatment plants          100% completion between Sept. 2000 and
                                                                                                 March 2001
Reshaping overburden dumps for stability         Completion of civil works and plantation        Civil works and plantation activities on 75 OB
and safety.                                      activities by 03/31/2001                        dumps completed by 06/30/2002
Tree plantation for noise and dust               2.68 million trees planted                      100%
suppression.
Vegetation of overburden dumps and               Plantation on 75 OB dumps scheduled for         Plantation undertaken on 75 reclaimed OB
mined-out areas.                                 reclamation                                     dumps of 2.6 million trees
Consultation with representatives of                                                             Continued consultation with project affected
project-affected people, local communities                                                       people by CD/R&R officers on regular basis.
and NGOs                                                                                         No longer systematized as in processes for
                                                                                                 annual RAPs and IPDPs. Consultations with
                                                                                                 local and international NGOs on issues
                                                                                                 raised by these.
Implementation of RAPs and IPDPs.                IPDPs implemented in 172 target villages in     IPDPs implemented in 172 target villages.
                                                 25 mines. RAPs implemented in 14 mines          RAP implementation requires verification on
                                                 ensuring provision of resettlement              provision of resettlement entitlements and
                                                 entitlements and assistance for income          outcome of income restoration
                                                 restoration.
(i) Verification of the list of project-affected Continued updating of list of entitled PAPs in Updating of list of entitled PAPs in PAP
people.                                          PAP database                                    database (March 02: 9,938
(j) Photo ID cards issued in 14 mines.           All interested entitled PAPs                    ID cards issued to 8,376 PAPs

Development of income-restoration strategy       Self-employment assistance delivered as a       Uneven delivery of assistance for
                                                 package comprising training and assistance      self-employment as integrated package.
                                                 for investments and market linkages. Land       Land based income generation piloted in one
                                                 based income generation tested as               mine
                                                 supplementary instrument in 5 mines




                                                                     - 37 -

Training and support for income restoration. Effective self-employment assistance          At project closure, of 9,938 entitled PAPs,
                                             provided as a package to interested PAPs      2,693 PAPs received mine jobs, 450 have
                                             who are not entitled to a mine job            jobs with contractors, and 1,006 have
                                                                                           incomes deriving from self-employment
                                                                                           assistance
Development of community infrastructure      172 villages and hamlets provided with IPDP
                                             assistance including community                829 community infrastructure activities
                                             infrastructure                                completed (average of 4.8 activities per IPDP
                                                                                           village
(k) Carrying out of information campaign in
25 mines.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Installation of dust suppression system.     100%                                          100%


Construction of sewage treatment plants      100% completion of 21 STPs                    100% completion of 21 STPs
(STP)
Reshaping overburden dumps for stability     100% completion of civil works and plantation 100% completion of civil works and plantation
and safety.                                  activities on 75 OB dumps                     activities on 75 OB dumps
Tree plantation for noise and dust           2.68 million trees planted                    100%
suppression.
Vegetation of overburden dumps and mined     Plantation of 2.6 million trees on 75 OB      100%
out areas                                    dumps
Consultation with representatives of project                                               Conducted with PAPs for annual RAPs and
affected people, local communities and                                                     IPDPs, and with NGOs on issues raised by
NGOs                                                                                       these

1End of project




                                                                - 38 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Land                                                         2.70             0.22            8.21
Civil Works                                                 41.70           35.63            85.45
Equipment,Materials and Vehicles                            13.00             9.64           74.16
Technical Assistance                                         6.60             4.43            67.1
Miscellaneous                                                9.60             2.58           26.91

Total Baseline Cost                                         73.60           52.50
 Physical Contingencies                                      6.80
 Price Contingencies                                         3.60
                        Total Project Costs                 84.00           52.50
                  Total Financing Required                  84.00           52.50


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             47.23         1.40          2.94         51.57
                                  (0.00)          (42.48)      (1.12)          (0.00)       (43.60)
2. Goods                          10.12             4.42         0.33          0.00         14.87
                                  (8.02)           (3.50)      (0.27)          (0.00)       (11.79)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         7.34          0.00          7.34
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (7.34)          (0.00)       (7.34)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          9.95          9.95
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.27          0.00          0.27
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.27)          (0.00)       (0.27)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          10.12            51.65         9.34          12.89        84.00
                                  (8.02)          (45.98)      (9.00)          (0.00)       (63.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             23.39       11.02           1.21        35.62
                                  (0.00)          (20.86)      (7.26)         (0.00)       (28.12)
2. Goods                          6.85             1.88         0.00           0.95         9.68
                                  (5.60)          (1.75)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (7.34)
3. Services                       0.82             2.67         0.00           0.93         4.42
                                  (0.00)          (1.03)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.03)

                                                - 39 -

  4. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             2.78              2.78
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (2.78)           (2.78)
  5. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                7.67              27.94             11.02             5.87             52.50
                                           (5.60)            (23.64)            (7.26)            (2.78)           (39.27)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Land                                         2.94                                  0.22                            7.5
Civil Works                    43.60                                 28.12         7.53                  64.5
Equipment & Materials          11.52                                  7.51         1.81                  65.2
Vehicles                        0.27                                  0.28         0.04                  103.7
Technical Assistance:           6.60                                  3.36         1.07                  50.9
Miscellaneous:                               9.60                                  2.58                            26.9




                                                           - 40 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                             Economic and Financial Analysis of CSRP
                               Present value of flows (USD million)


                          Economic Analysis                       Financial Analysis
                               Appraisal            Latest             Appraisal             Latest
Total (For 23 projects)                            Estimates                             Estimates

Cost (PV)                             1,129.97              658.27           1351.57               712.19
Benefit (PV)                          2,692.18            1,252.73           2,260.54            1,109.48
Net Benefit (NVP)                     1,562.21              593.46             908.97              397.28
Internal Rate of                                                              57.61%               55.57%
Return (IRR)
Source: Coal India Limited



                                 Economic and Financial Analysis of
                         Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project ( 24 Sub Projects)
                                              (US$ million)



    Company/mine           Economic Analysis                       Financial Analysis
                               Appraisal        Latest Estimates       Appraisal        Latest Estimates
                               NPV at 16%         NPV at 16%          NPV at 16%          NPV at 16%
CCL
  KD Hesalong             87.7                n/a                 36.2                n/a
  Parej East              65.58               19.10               32.6                6.24
  Rajrappa                116.05              6.72                81.2                1.26
MCL
  Ananta                  64.2                36.82               49.63               31.72
  Belpahar                9.9                 3.66                6.94                2.40
  Bharatpur               104.6               63.6                80.65               57.65
  Jagannath               31.8                10.85               27.05               9.64
  Lakhanpur               81.8                23.36               52.04               19.16
  Samleswari              41.5                11.45               28.90               8.31
NCL
  Bina                    28.1                4.91                7.60                2.35
  Dudhichua               166.8               50.41               65.90               7.67
  Jayant                  102.6               57.41               41.20               22.86
  Jhingurda               470.                16.22               23.20               10.77
  Nigahi                  122.1               25.31               43.40               3.91
SECL
  Dhanpuri                5.70                1.07                2.10                1.31
  Dipka                   204.70              120.58              107.10              103.21
  Gevra                   51.70               31.33               34.50               26.16
  Kusmunda                70.05               41.72               45.50               31.48
  Manikpur                13.80               9.67                8.30                8.06



                                                  - 41 -

WCL
  Durgapur                      50.20                           26.26                        44.00                            22.22
  Niljai                        51.20                           8.44                         34.10                            4.36
  Padmapur                      38.10                           8.55                         33.60                            6.46
  Sasti                         28.60                           9.33                         17.10                            5.27
  Umrer                         65.90                           6.70                         41.80                            4.81
Total                           1,649.95                        593.47                       944.97                           397.28



         Source : Coal India Ltd.


                              Assumptions underlying the financial and economic analysis


                                              Financial analysis                                                    Economic analysis

Capital cost         SAR                                                                 SAR
                     The capital cost is based on Coal India's and the mission's         The financial costs were converted to economic costs by netting out
                     estimates of cost components in sub-projects. The capital costs     duties and taxes, expressing the input content at c.i.f. prices and
                     include the investments envisaged in Coal Sector Environmental      adjusting local cost components by applying the standard conversion
                     And Social Mitigation Projects. The cost estimates of equipment     factor of 0.8.
                     are based on the standard price list published by CMPDI every
                     year. This list is a compilation of information based on the latest
                     purchases by Coal India. However, in cases where no such
                     purchases were made, budgeted prices from the suppliers formed      ICR
                     the basis of estimates. The base month for the estimate is July     The financial costs were converted to economic costs by netting out
                     1996. The capital cost of individual sub-projects includes          duties and taxes, expressing the input content at c.i.f. prices and
                     applicable taxes and duties and 10% physical contingency. All       adjusting local cost components by applying the standard conversion
                     costs have been converted to their equivalent in 1996 US dollars.   factor of 0.9.
                     ICR
                     The capital costs from the beginning of the project in 1998 till
                     March 2001 are based on actual expenditure incurred. The
                     investment beyond March 2001 is estimated either on the basis of
                     actual contract prices or the current standard price list published
                     by CMPDI. The capital costs also include the investments
                     envisaged in Coal Sector Environmental And Social Mitigation
                     Projects. The estimates of capital cost for individual subproject
                     include applicable taxes and duties. All costs have been
                     converted to their equivalent in 2002 US Dollars.
Operating cost      SAR                                                                  SAR
                    The operating costs are based on Coal India's estimates of the       The cost was derived from the financial cost by excluding
                    operating costs for each subproject. These have been derived from all taxes and duties and a standard conversion factor of 0.8
                    the schedule of additional coal production, overburden removal,      was applied to the local cost component.
                    and deployment of the machines and take into account fixed and
                    variable components of unit operating cost. The unit operating cost
                    estimates, i.e. cost/m3 are comparable with mines of similar nature
                    currently in production in Coal India. For replacement projects,
                    however, the variable cost/incremental operating cost is company
                    specific and are based on actual results of 1995-96. These costs
                    reflect the variable costs per m3in opencast mines of Coal India.
                    Interest on working capital is based on historical levels of working
                    capital requirements equivalent to 4 months operating cash
                    expenses.
                    ICR
                    The operating costs till 2001 are actual and the unit cost estimates
                    for future years are based on the actual cost prevailing in 2001.
Coal production      SAR                                                                 SAR
                     For mines under construction and expansion mines, the expected      For mines under construction and expansion mines, the expected
                     increase of coal output was taken as the major benefit from the     increase of coal output was taken as the major benefit from the
                     subprojects. For projects where replacement equipment is            subprojects. For projects where replacement equipment is proposed to
                     proposed to be financed, the likely shortfall in coal output that   be financed, the likely shortfall in coal output that would occur if
                     would occur if equipment were not replaced was taken as the         equipment were not replaced was taken as the major benefit. The
                     major benefit. The assessment of the shortfall in production was    assessment of the shortfall in production was based on the recent
                     based on the prevailing average annual productivity of each type    average annual productivity of each type of equipment in Coal India.
                     of equipment in Coal India.                                         ICR




                                                                       - 42 -

                     ICR                                                              The coal production till 2001 is actual. The estimates of incremental
                     The coal production till 2001 is actual. The estimates of        production beyond 2001 are based on the technical assessment of the
                     incremental production beyond 2001 are based on the technical    planned deployment of equipment and the geo-mining characteristics
                     assessment of the planned deployment of equipment and the        of the mines. The methodology adopted for the assessment of
                     geo-mining characteristics of the mines. The methodology         incremental production is the same as the SAR.
                     adopted for the assessment of incremental production is the same
                     as the SAR.


Coal price           SAR                                                              SAR
                     Expected revenues are based on ex-mine selling prices authorized Benefits were calculated on the basis of additional coal production,
                     as of March 1997 and additional coal production attributable to  valued in two ways. First, at c.i.f. import prices of coal at selected
                     the investment in the project. Revenues for Nigahi are based on  Indian ports plus inland freight costs to consumers and adjusted for
                     the price negotiated with NTPC.                                  equivalent heat values, less freight charges for delivery of coal from
                                                                                      mine mouth to the same consumers. Second, on the basis of long-run
                                                                                      marginal cost, appropriately adjusted for quality, to reflect

                                                                                      consumer's willingness to pay. With the exception of two coking coal
                                                                                      mines (Parej East and Rajrappa) and one non-coking coal mine
                                                                                      (Umrer) producing high grade coal, incremental output of all other
                                                                                      mines was valued at prices based on the long run marginal cost
                                                                                      (LRMC). The methodology adapted is consistent with the one applied

                     ICR                                                              at appraisal.

                     Actual selling prices till 2001 have been adopted. The present   ICR

                     coal prices have been used in the estimates of cash inflow for   Same as above

                     each sub project

Source: Coal India Ltd.




                                                                      - 43 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/22/94                  4    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIALSCIENTIST (I); R&R
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
              12/01/94                  5    MISSION LEADER (1); R&R
                                             SPECIALIST (1); MINING
                                             ENGINEER (I); COUNTRY
                                             OFFICER (I); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (I)
              06/12/95                  3    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             MINING ENGINEER (I);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (I)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/01/95                  4    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             MINING ENGINEER (I);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (I)

 Supervision
              08/26/96                  9    MISSION LEADER                   S               S
                                             (1);MININGENGINEER (I);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIALANALYST (I);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                                             RESETTLEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (I);
                                             OPRATIONSOFFICER (I);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              02/11/1997                6    PROCUREMENT (1);                 S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPL. (1);
                                             MISSION LEADER (1); NGO
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (2)

              03/19/1997                3    SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALISTS
                                             (2)
                                             CONSULTANT (I)
              05/1/1997                 3
                                             SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALISTS
                                             (1)
              07/5/1997                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1)
              10/03/1997                4    PROCUREMENT (1); TASK            U               S
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);


                                              - 44 -

                PLANNING (1)

11/15/1997    8 PLANNING SPECIALIST(1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                ANTHROPOLOGY (1);
                PLANNING (1);
                TRAINING/ENVIRONMENT
                (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                (1); COMMUNITY
                DEVELOPMENT (1); URBAN
                PLANNER (1)

12/17/1997    8 RECONSTRUCTN./PLANNING        U    U
                (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                ANTHROPOLOGY (1);
                PLANNING (1);
                TRAINING/ENVIRONMENT
                (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                (1); COMMUNITY
                DEVELOPMENT (1);
                ENVIRONMENT (1)
02/28/1998    3 TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL       U    U
                DEVELOPMENT (1);
                ENVIRONMENT (1)
06/07/1998    3 TASK LEADER (1); SOCIAL       U    S
                DEVELOPMENT (1);
                ENVIRONMENT (1)
09/25/1998    5 TASK LEADER (1); SOCIAL       S    S
                DEVELOPMENT (2);
                ENVIRONMENT (1); SOIL
                SPECIALIST (1)
12/12/1998    2 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (2)        U    U

03/05/1999    5 ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                SPECIALIST (2); (1);
                ENVIRONMENT (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (I)
06/07/1999    3 TASK LEADER (1);              U    S
                ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                SOC. DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
11/21/1999    8 TASK LEADER (1);              U    U
                ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                SOC. DEVEL. SPECIALIST (2);
                JBIC REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                MINING ENGINEER (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1)
01/21/00      2
                SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
                CONSULTANT (I)



                - 45 -

               03/15/2000              8   TASK LEADER (1);                   U    U
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           SOCIAL DEVEL. OFFICER (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                           JBIC CONSULTANT (2); JBIC
                                           REPRESENTATIVE (2)
               06/15/2000              1   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)             U    U
               11/01/2000              3   TASK LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           SR. SOCIAL DEVL. SPEC. (1)
               03/09/2001              2   TASK LEADER (1); SOC.              S    S
                                           DEVEL. SPECIALIST (1)
               06/15/2001              4   TASK LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           SR. SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTALIST (1)
               12/06/2001              2   TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL            S    U
                                           DEVELOPMENT SPE (1)




 ICR

               02/15/2002             4     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                            SR. SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            19.1                           60.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 26.5                         104.0
  Supervision                        401.48                         1409.8
  ICR                                   18.0                           75.0
  Total                              465.08                         1649.3




                                            - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Social Safeguard Policies
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;

 2. Project Progress Reports;

 3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;

 4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated November 22, 2002; and

  5. Staff Appraisal Report for Coal sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project, dated April 24,
1996 (Report No. 15405-IN)




                                                  - 49 -

Additional Annex 8. Details of Inspection Panel

The project came under Inspection Panel investigation following a complaint letter regarding the Parej East
mine in CCL from the Chotanagpur Adivasi Sewa Samiti (CASS) dated June 14, 2001. The concerns in the
Request for Inspection dealt exclusively with actions carried out under the project. The Request alleged
violations of Operational Directives 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, 4.30
on Involuntary Resettlement, and 13.05 on Project Supervision. The Request also alleged violations of
OPN 11.03 on Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects, and of BP 17.50 on
Disclosure of Operational Information. A response from Bank Management was provided on July 19,
2002, and additional responses on follow-up questions from the Inspection Panel were provided in April
and November 2002. The final Inspection Panel report was distributed on December 3, 2002. Management
Report and Recommendation in response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report (No.24000) was
distributed on May 6, 2003. The Inspection Panel's Report together with Management's Report and
Recommendation were considered by the Executive Directors at a meeting on July 22, 2003. Management
proposed to continue supervising the project until June 2004. The supervision effort focuses on economic
rehabilitation of PAFs who had suffered a decrease in income, the settlement of claims for PAPs cultivating
land under customary tenure, the provision of long term leases for PAP house plots in the resettlement site,
and the disbursement of subsistence allowances in Parej East (CCL). (for further details see the Inspection
Panel web page: www.inspectionpanel.org).




                                                    - 50 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report

     Coal India's Comments

Formulation of policies

Environmental Policy: Based on the experience in environmental management, Coal India felt the need to
lay down policy guidelines for attaining a sustainable development. Accordingly an Environmental Policy
was formulated in July 1995 to be operative in all the subsidiaries of Coal India. The Environmental Policy
was subsequently reviewed during the mid-term review of the ESMP in 1999.

R&R Policy: Although a specific policy or law/Act on Social Mitigation and R&R issues is yet to be
firmed up at the national level, Coal India with the assistance of World Bank experts prepared a corporate
R&R policy after reviewing the existing policy in 1995. The policy has been implemented in the ESMP
mines and is in the process of implementation in other mines of the company.

Community Development Plan: Even though CIL already had a community development program for the
benefit of the people living in the areas where the coal mines are established, in 1995 a more systematic
Community Development Policy was formulated. The IPDP was a new introduction in the existing
Community Development plan with the aim to bring in an institutional framework and strategy for
implementation of activities that would help the communities around the mines to improve their living
standards. The villagers were involved in identifying the IPDP activities within the budget allocated, and
were also involves in the implementation of the activities and the subsequent operation and maintenance.

Organizational arrangements: A World Bank Project Division (WBPD) was established in 1996 at CIL
headquarters to ensure implementation of the Bank supported projects. Subsequently, the WBPD was
restructured into two separate units to deal with CSRP and ESMP, each unit headed by a Chief General
Manager (CGM). In the ESMP unit, the CGM was assisted by one General Manager (Environment), one
General Manager (R&R) and other Environmental and CD/R&R Officers at the corporate level. Similarly,
at subsidiary level World Bank Project Divisions were also organized with one CGM assisted by GM
(Env), GM (R&R) and other environment and R&R officers at corporate, Area and mine levels. CIL
introduced in 1999 measures to strengthen the financial powers of the Area and mine management to
facilitate timely implementation.

Technical Assistance

Technical Assistance consisted of several studies, which were used as a basis for the design of
environmental and social mitigation activities, such as: (i) environmental monitoring at all project mines,
(ii) improvement of air quality at production sites, mine quarters, and surrounding villages; (iii) reduction
of noise levels at production sites, mine quarters, and surrounding villages; (iv) improvement of water
quality of through establishment of facilities for treatment of effluent from workshops and mines as well as
domestic effluents in sewage treatment plants; (v) monitoring of drinking water quality at mine quarters
and in neighboring villages; and (vi) reclamation of 75 OB dumps, use of top soil to promote the growth of
vegetation on reclaimed OB dumps, and plantation of 2.68 million trees and other vegetation including
grasses.

RAP Activities




                                                      - 51 -

Resettlement: Based on studies on assessment of resettlement & rehabilitation annual RAPs were prepared
from 1998 and onwards with the help of the facilitating NGOs for 14 mines with land acquisition.
Relocation of land oustees was involved in 11 project mines (1 in NCL, 4 in MCL, 4 in SECL and 2 in
CCL). Out of these, resettlement is completed in 7 mines as targeted in SAR. In other four mines namely,
Bharatpur, Lakhanpur & Belpahar in MCL and Parej East in CCL, relocation as targeted in SAR was not
necessary since the mining did not progress as forecast, and fewer than anticipated had to be relocated. By
end of August 2003, 83% of the SAR PAF estimate were relocated, and per the mine expansion plans,
106% of the PAFs were relocated.

Issuing of ID cards: Issuing of ID cards with a specification of individual entitlements is complete except
for some of the PAPs in MCL who refused to accept the cards due to on-going court cases regarding
compensation. Total number of ID cards issued in 14 mines were 8,416 (against the SAR estimated figure
of 9,260 and EPAPs verified figure of 10,214) excluding the people out migrated, court cases and
resistance to be photographed (due to demand for mine jobs).

Rehabilitation: For economic rehabilitation of the EPAPs, a number of rehabilitation efforts were made.
Besides providing mine job to around 27% and jobs with contractors to 5% of the EPAPs, self-employment
training was given to around 17%. About 58% of the EPAPs trained for self employment have started
earning on their own. Some of the remaining EPAPs are either not interested in taking self employment
training and start earning on their own (mostly women folks - housewives), or are old and not interested in
earning and instead depend on income of other members of the family. It has been experienced that it is a
very tough job to develop enterpreneureship in the PAPs and to induce them for self-earning. [lessons
learned on this item is given at the end]

Land based income generation (LBIG): A pilot project on LBIG was started in SECL in July 2000, where
around 60 EPAPs are participating till date. The scheme included training of the EPAPs, formation of Self
Help Groups (SHG), making arrangement for water management and irrigation including soil and water
conservation activities, use of green manure on OB dump reclaimed land, and construction of a site office.
The crops produced were paddy/wheat/vegetables, castor and gram, soybean and medicinal plants. The
scheme is proving to be a success in generating earning for the EPAPs. [lessons learned on this item is
given at the end]

IPDP activities: IPDPs involving community development assistance were undertaken in 24 mines, and
comprised villages not affected by land acquisition and located within a one kilometer radius around the
mines. The target groups under the IPDPs comprised the population of 172 villages. About a third of the
IPDP target group belonged to scheduled tribes who were generally settled in mixed villages among caste
Hindus and scheduled caste Hindus. The IPDPs were aimed at the community as a whole with particular
emphasis on the poor and women. The IPDPs were prepared with active participation of the VWGs and
then reviewed by a Community Development Committee (CDC). The VWGs were being involved as
contractors for the civil works that were taken up under IPDPs. This, in fact, enhanced the capacity of the
villagers to plan and implement community works and generated income during construction without
compromising the construction quality. Besides, this also brought in a sense of ownership of the assets
created and help in taking up subsequent O&M of the assets. [lessons learned on this item is given at the
end]

Engagement of facilitating NGOs: To help implement the RAPs and IPDPs, 10 facilitating NGOs were
engaged in all the subprojects to work shoulder to shoulder along with the Coal India officials who did not
have much of exposure on the subject. [lessons learned on this item is given at the end]




                                                    - 52 -

Training

Environmental training: In June 1998, Indian School of Mines (ISM), Dhanbad developed three modules
on environmental training, covering 21 programs for providing training to senior management and
executive officers. The participants belonged to environmental as well as other cadres. Total 218 officers
attended the training, which was completed in July 2000. In the second phase under the capacity building
program, training was conducted for 200 executives under the Institutional Strengthening Action Plan
(ISAP). The outputs of the contract comprised preparation of manuals, training modules, and training
which will continue beyond the project closing date.

R&R training: CIL introduced from 1997 a four module training course for its social mitigation staff and
for the staff of the facilitating NGOs. The four training modules were (i) R&R and Community
Development policies and implementation issues, (ii) income generation for PAPs, (iii) information
management, and (iv) participatory management.

Workshops: Several workshops were conducted, which included a management retreat to discuss the pros
and cons of the project; workshops in all the subsidiaries for inter-area interaction and dissemination of
knowledge and experience; and on lessons learnt.

Engagement of Supervision Consultant and Environmental & Social Review Panel: A consultant was
engaged as Supervision Consultant, for supervising implementation of the project to help support the
Bank's supervision missions. In addition, an expatriate Consultant group in collaboration with an Indian
counter part formed a Environment & Social Review Panel to review the total implementation guided by
OD 4.30 and OD 4.20 for the social aspects and OD 4.01 for the environmental aspects up to the end of
the project.

Cross conditionality linkages between ESMP & CSRP

Under the CSRP agreement, the Bank had included a list of cross-conditionalities between CSRP &
CSESMP. All the cross-conditionalities were complied with under CSESMP.

Extension of the project closing date

The project's closing date was extended by one year from June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2002 to enable CIL to
progress towards the achievement of project outputs and objectives. During the extended period, the
following activities were taken up: (i) implementation of an innovative land based income restoration pilot
project at SECL (Dipka OCP); (ii) relocation of the balance PAPs based on land acquired for mine
expansion; (iii) implementation of the ISAP; and (iv) completion of the balance activities on OB dump
reclamation and dust suppression.

Assessment of the Borrower

Coal India, through implementation of ESMP, was able to create an organization in a structured manner,
capable of taking up mitigation measures of the environmental and social impacts arising out of coal
mining activities. It is now in a position to implement the environmental laws of the country in a better
manner. The R&R issues are also being taken care of in a better manner. Monitoring of environmental
parameters in a standardized manner has been extended to the mines beyond ESMP project mines. Based
on the experience in the ESMP mines, CIL is now in a better position to extend similar activities to other
mines. Overall supervision of implementation and monitoring of environmental and social activities has


                                                     - 53 -

also improved.

Operational Experience

Overall implementation progress was initially slow and uneven and CIL's commitment remained
problematic especially with regard to key areas of economic rehabilitation of PAPs, and institutional reform
to enhance CIL's environmental and social management capabilities due to lack of experience in the field of
social management. Procedural delay in engaging facilitating NGOs also contributed to slow progress of
the project at the initial stage. Significantly, progress throughout 25 project mines began only in the first
half of 2000. Since then CIL has demonstrated increasing commitment regarding both environmental and
social mitigation and there was noticeable implementation progress thereafter.
Ranking the old external OB dumps, on the basis of hazard and risk involved in it and then formulating
reclamation action plan for their safety and stability in a large scale, has been a new experience for Coal
India.

While implementing the RAPs, in connection with resettlement and economic rehabilitation issues of the
PAPs, Coal India encountered a lot of rough weather in the beginning. It was a unique experience to
identify training trades for the PAPs, who are basically tribal and/or depend solely on agriculture. Further,
organizing self-employment schemes for the PAPs was also a difficult task in the beginning. The on-going
LBIGS taken up by Coal India in SECL on pilot basis is a novel idea for economic rehabilitation of the
PAPs who are familiar with agriculture.

Similarly, although Coal India has experience in doing Community Development activities, IPDP in the
form it has been included in ESMP, is a new experience. The response from the villagers and facilitation by
the NGOs equipped Coal India with a unique experience. Implementation of IPDPs has caused less
interruption of the mining activities by the people around than normally experienced.

Project sustainability

The project was implemented successfully. The sustainability of the system installed can be assessed from
a number of observations:

Social: The IPDP activities taken up in the villages are being pursued by the VWGs and the SHGs in the
IPDP villages even after the closure of ESMP. This concept is being extended to other mines of WCL.
RAPs are being prepared for the new mines in compliance of the R&R policy of the company.

Environment:      Environmental monitoring is undertaken in a standardized manner with regard to the
parameters, frequency of monitoring, and methods of testing in all the mines of Coal India. Dust
suppression arrangements made and effluent treatment plants commissioned in the mines are working
satisfactorily, and are being replicated in other mines beyond the ESMP project mines. The environmental
management division set in the company is functioning to carry on the systems established during ESMP.
The three year action plan for institutional strengthening of Coal India is proving successful in enhancing
its strength through training, implementing the Environment Management System (EMS) of ISO 14001,
and installation of GIS.

Lessons Learned.

·        Resettlement and rehabilitation of the PAPs has to be done keeping in view the customs, habits and
culture of the people. The resettlement sites need to be identified with participation of the PAPs. It has


                                                       - 54 -

been found that PAPs are more interested in getting the lump sum monetary compensation payment in lieu
of plots in the resettlement sites.
·        It is necessary to have a permanent strength of personnel to deal with the environmental and social
mitigation measures. For inducing people to remain in this category of activities, some attraction is
required to be generated in the form of career development.
·        Technical assistance greatly helped in formulating the action plans, particularly the involvement of
a soil technologist in the area of OB dump reclamation, and of NGOs in case of implementation of RAPs
and IPDPs.
·        Transparency regarding the mining project construction to the PAPs is very much necessary for
getting full cooperation for physical acquisition of legally acquired land.
·        The PAPs dealt with in the project were mainly agricultural workers and mostly tribal. To train
them in other trades and then develop entrepreneurship to make them capable of self- earning was a tough
job, particularly when they always dream of a comparatively high salaried mine job. Thus it was not
possible to address the vast and complicated issues on social mitigation with complete success in the 25
geographically scattered open cast coal mines in such a short effective project period of three years time.
However, it was a very good objective started in a planned manner.
·        While organising training for the PAPs on skill development, the trainee EPAPs should be
prioritized, so that only potential self employment interested people are trained and not the people who are
interested only for the stipend during the training days.
·        Success of self-employment schemes highly depends on arranging seed money for the people frtom
banks, government schemes, etc.
·        Land based income generation schemes for the PAPs has huge scope in use of the reclaimed mine
lands and utilisation of the effluent from the sewage treatment plants.
·        Community driven development program under IPDP is very useful and its sustainability depends
on handing over the assets for operation and maintenance under proper supervision of the Panchayats.
·        Certain aspects like mine closure planning, and Social Impact Assessment should be properly built
in the Environment Management Plan itself, including the cost estimate.
·        Creation of external OB dumps should be restricted to minimum as far as possible, and only during
initial phase of box cutting in the opencast mines. Then onwards, only back filling of over burden should be
practiced for concurrent land reclamation. A thought is required to be given in the EMP regarding the land
use plan of the reclaimed land with further improvement for land based income generation activities.

Evaluation of the Bank

The Bank rendered highly professional and competent advice and assistance from time to time in
implementation of the project. The Bank missions visited all the project mines in the subsidiaries adequate
number of times to review the progress of implementation and gave necessary advice to address the weak
areas. During each visit, the World Bank officials held detailed discussions with the consultants and the
staff at corporate, area and project mine levels. Their suggestions and guidance during deliberation on
mitigation of the environmental and specially the complex issues on social aspect helped the project achieve
the objective largely. Assistance of the Bank in helping Coal India to develop an organizational set up for
environmental and social mitigation and firming up different policies and thus enhancing the capability of
the company in dealing with the management of environmental and social issues is highly appreciated. At
times the approach of the Bank was bureaucratic in nature, lacking proper appreciation of the ground
realities. The difficulty in achieving the targeted income restoration figure on the back ground of Indian
culture and habits needs to be understood and appreciated in a comprehensive manner.




                                                      - 55 -

Additional Annex 10. Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 4226-IN)

Project Development Objectives: The main project objectives are to support the market-oriented reforms
India is undertaking in the coal sector and, specifically, to provide financial and technical support to Coal
India's efforts to make itself commercially viable and self-sustaining. Underpinning India's broad drive to
achieve economic growth, the project also aims to increase domestic supplies of coal, by financing
investment in the most profitable 24 opencast mines of Coal India, for the power sector and other industries
until imports and production from private investments can fill the emerging supply gap.

Applicable Operational Directives: All environmental and social mitigation activities were handled under
the CSESMP.

Board Approval:           September 9, 1997;        Date of Effectiveness: June 17, 1998
Original Closing Date: June 30, 2003;              Revised Closing Date: None
Date of Loan Cancellation:                         July 25, 2000 for IBRD Loan and
                                                   January 21, 2001 for IDA Credit

     Subsidiary                                 State                       Project Mines
Northern Coalfields Ltd.                    Uttar Pradesh                          5
South-Eastern Coalfields Ltd.               Chhattisgarh                           5
Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd.                    Orissa                                 6
Central Coalfields Ltd.                     Jharkand                               3
Western Coalfields Ltd.                     Maharashtra                            5

Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was about US$649.80 million, compared with the SAR estimate of US$1.7
billion. Of the Bank Loan amount of US$530 million, US$224.40 million was disbursed and an amount of
US$268.70 million was cancelled on July 31, 2000. About US$37 million remained open for disbursement
under special commitments. Out of the Credit amount of US$2.0 million, US$1.42 million was disbursed
and the remaining US$0.58 million cancelled on January 25, 2001. JBIC provided co-financing of
US$261.30 million, and CIL contributed US$125.78 million. This was proportionately less than that
planned due to the higher level of local procurement and savings in excise duties, reduced custom tariffs
and CIL's disproportionate share of works which were either dropped or deferred.

Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project's physical (investment) objective of increasing CIL coal production through rehabilitation
and/or expansion of 24 mine sub-projects was, in aggregate, achieved ahead of schedule. The physical
targets for individual sub-projects varied, some well exceeding planned levels of coal production, while
others are still building up to full output.

Another outcome of the project was the liberalization of pricing and distribution for all categories of coal in
January 2000. Accordingly, CIL has been free to set prices of deregulated coal according to the market
forces, and the prices of washed coal (both Coking and Non Coking) are being fixed by the subsidiary
companies. Coal is also presently freely imported by anyone under open general license (OGL).

The project facilitated CIL reforming and restructuring its operations to the extent that its subsidiaries



                                                     - 56 -

became largely financially independent and autonomous companies, improving their productivity;
competing with each other; and fixing their own prices according to market demands. The project also
supported CIL's decision to do away with the existing systems of linkage/sponsorship and take a new
policy initiative for non-core sector. Subsidiary companies are also authorized to sell their entire quantity of
coal and coal products after meeting the requirements of the core sector, to the non-core sector customers.
In addition, the project eliminated the automatic cross-subsidization of loss-making activities through Coal
Price Regulation Account (CPRA) pricing mechanism between subsidiaries and even collieries as a natural
consequence of coal price liberalization.

Owing to unsatisfactory performance on coal sector reform; a reversal of the policy of reducing import
duties on coal; the financial deterioration beyond covenanted limits under the CSRP; and difficulties with
economic rehabilitation and income restoration under the CSESMP, the Bank advised the Ministry of Coal
(MOC) and CIL in January 2000 that it was considering applying legal remedies and moving towards
suspension in the event that these issues were not addressed. As the issues remained unresolved after
extensive discussion, the Bank proposed two options to the government comprising: (i) if GOI could
achieve compliance within a reasonable period of time with the covenanted actions under the two projects
in the near term, the Bank would suspend the CSRP Loan, reinstating it when compliance was achieved; or
(ii) if GOI assessed that compliance could not be achieved, they should request cancellation of the balance
of the CSRP Loan. In July 2000, GOI and CIL requested cancellation of the un-disbursed balance of the
Loan and Credit. The reasons and the background for such an outcome are described below:

          Sector Reform. The amendment of the CMNA was an essential legislative measure to enable the
     participation of the private sector in the development of new non-captive coal mines and also in any
     divestment that CIL would undertake as part of the restructuring of its loss-making subsidiaries. GOI
     in its Supplemental Letter to the CSRP Loan Agreement had committed itself to submit the draft
     amendment to the CMNA to Parliament by December 31, 1997. Despite the Bank's repeated attempts
     to emphasize the importance of this amendment, there was inordinate delay on the part of the GOI to
     submit it to the Parliament. The draft was finally submitted to the Parliament in April 2000, and was
     subsequently referred to the Standing Committee on Industry of Parliament and thereafter to the
     Standing Committee on Energy. After project closure, the GOI however did continue its efforts to
     submit the bill to Parliament and was prepared to withstand intense trade union pressure to withdraw
     the bill and endured a three day general strike in December 2001. Nonetheless, the difficulties in
     securing these reforms are apparent and further delays can be anticipated.

          Regulatory Framework. This important policy TA was designed to provide the critical foundation
     for coal sector reform to encourage the introduction of private sector interests in the coal sector and
     create enhanced competition between coal producers within India. Although the detailed TOR and its
     underlying fundamental philosophies were agreed at loan negotiations and reflected in loan and credit
     agreements as a precursor to continuing Bank support to CIL, GOI showed limited interest in engaging
     with international/local consultants and played a minor role in the development of its findings and
     recommendations. The study was completed well behind schedule due to procurement
     misunderstandings, delays and general lack of cooperation. Even though DOC had agreed to submit a
     time-bound action plan for the implementation of a new regulatory framework by June 30, 2000, it was
     never submitted by DOC to the Bank.

          Restructuring of BCCL and ECL. Despite the initial capital restructuring, CIL failed to take the
     bold measures needed to restore the financial viability of its loss making subsidiaries, BCCL and ECL
     in spite of repeated representations by the Bank. These together with CCL have now completely
     eroded their equity base and have all been referred to the BIFR for restructuring or closure under the


                                                      - 57 -

    Sick Companies Act of 1985. Despite various plans which remain under consideration by GOI/CIL
    and a 17% reduction in excess labor since 1998, these companies continue to drain scarce resources
    from other parts of the group and undermine CIL's ability to sustain its operations.

         Lower than expected demand for coal. Most of the expected additions to power generation
    capacity did not materialize due to the slow pace of the power sector reforms, and as a result, demand
    for coal began to decline. In addition, a slow down in industrial demand combined with the availability
    of imported Indonesian coal at comparable or cheaper prices than domestic coal, especially in the
    coastal areas, affected the demand for coal from cement plants and other industrial users.
    Consequently, the actual demand was only 311.0 million tons in 1996/97 and 354.3 million tons in
    2001/02 compared with 332.7 million tons and 513 million tons respectively in the SAR. Likewise,
    while the SAR estimated the gap in coal supply would be 44.0 million tons in 1996/97 and 128.0
    million tons in 2001/02, the actual gap for these years were only 15.9 and 25.46 million tons
    respectively. In light of these developments, a downward revision of capital requirements due to
    outsourcing, better maintenance and operating performance, and savings realized on phase A
    procurements, CIL no longer needed external finance to support the procurement of equipment
    scheduled for the Phase B of the project.

Outputs by components:

(A) Investment Component.

(Satisfactory). The objective of increasing coal production at the sub-projects by 13.4 million tones per
year to a level of 105.95 in 2002 was achieved by end 2001 with an increased output of 17.85 million
tones and a total sub-project production of 112.83 million tones coal. The output of individual CIL
subsidiary sub-projects was generally satisfactory (exceeding plan) although the 3 sub-projects at CCL are
not expected to meet planned production targets until 2002/3. It is evident that from 1996 ­ 2001 Coal
India (CIL) successfully:

    increased production (by 31 million tons per year - 13%);
    reduced employment (by 87,000 workers -14%) and
    increased labor productivity (by 0.5 tons per man shift ­ 28%).

These are substantial accomplishments and, despite more modest gains in the financial performance, the
objectives of the investment component were realized by CIL.

Key consolidated statistics of CIL for the period 1996-2001 are given below:

                                                 Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual           SAR

                                                   1996   1997     1998    1999     2000    2001     2001

Production                           Mill tons    237.3   250.6    260.6   256.5    260.6   268.1    289.9
Coal Prices                          Rs/ton        441     530       588    600     629      652      739
Production Cost                      Rs/ton        442     497       545    573     617      726      504
Labor Cost                           Rs/ton        211     215       230    239     266      380      245
Profit/(loss)                        Rs billion   (14.1)    6.9     14.5   18.0     11.4     6.1     25.2
Employment                           # 000's       639     632       620    599     574      552      594
Productivity                         OMS           1.8      1.9      1.9    2.0      2.1     2.3      n/a



                                                    - 58 -

Capacity Utilization               %              n/a      n/a     91.9    88.3    87.5    85.7    88.3
Capital Expenditure                Rs billion    15.5     13.3     16.3    15.9    28.8    7.6     35.7
Debt                               Rs billion    61.6     61.4     55.9    63.6    70.5    63.2    61.1
Equity                             Rs billion    49.9     54.2     59.2    64.3    61.4    39.4   117.6
Receivables                        months         2.4      2.3      2.6     3.1     3.0    3.3     1.4
Source: CIL Annual Reports
       WB Staff Appraisal Report


(B). Technical Assistance and Training Component.

(Unsatisfactory). The project design provided for nine technical assistance/training sub-components
(estimated cost US$14 million) covering policy, institutional development and project implementation. The
level and extent of TA/training was substantial by any project standards. Generally speaking, the TOR for
individual study programs was developed as a cooperative effort between Bank staff and GOI/CIL and the
TA design was to a large extent appropriate. With the loan cancellation coinciding approximately with the
conclusion of the TA programs, Bank staff were unable, with the exception of the policy (legal/regulatory)
study, to review the implementation of domestic/international consultant findings and recommendations.
Consequently, achievements realized by the TA could not be specified with any degree of certainty.




                                                   - 59 -

        Additional Annex 11. ESMP Implementation Status

                                                                                                                                  Annex 11a

CSESMP ­ Overall Status of Resettlement

  Subsidiary & PAFs to be PAFs to be                    Resettled by                                                     Balance (as Expected date
  Mine            resettled       resettled as per      June 30,                                                         per target) of completion
                                  mine expansion        2002                                                                            of
                                  plans by June 30,                                                                                     resettlement
                                  02
                                                        In              Outside         Cash(c)          Total
                                                        Rs(a)           Rs(b)
 NCL                    57                 57                  57              43               --              57              --     Completed
 Jhingurda              57                 57                  14              43               --              57              --     Completed
 MCL                   1290               812                 188              282             468             938             352
 Jagannath             436                436                  14              176             246             436              --     Completed
 Bharatpur             308                243                  90               8              198             296             12      Mine
                                                                                                                                       contingency
                                                                                                                                       plans(d)
 Lakhanpu              172                133                  73              64               24             161             11      Mine
                                                                                                                                       contingency
                                                                                                                                       plans(d)
 Belpahar              374                 45                  11              34                               45             329     Mine
                                                                                                                                       contingency
                                                                                                                                       plans(d)
 SECL                  852                852                 393                              459             852              --     Completed
 Gevra                 244                244                 244              --               --             244              --     Completed
 Dipka                 575                575                 116                              459             575              --     Completed
 Kusmunda               33                 33                  33              --               --              33             33      Completed
 CCL                   342                225                  67              15              143             225             117
 KD Hesalong            52                 52                  50               2               --              52              --     Completed
 Parej East(e)         290                173                  17              13              143             173             117     March '05
                      (+115)                                                                  (+57)           (+57)          (+58)
 Total                 2541               1946                705              340            1070            2072           469(f)
                      (+115)                                                                  (+57)           (+57)          (+58)


   (a) Relocated to resettlement site.
   (b) Relocated outside resettlement site and temporarily in mine quarters.
   (c) Relocated to places of own choice with cash grant of Rs. 50,000 in lieu of a plot in a resettlement site and transition allowance.
   (d) For the MCL mines of Jagannath, Bharatpur, Belpahar and Lakhanpur, contingency mine plans were developed in 1998 to cope
       with possible delays in resettlement of PAPs due to disputes mainly involving PAP demands for additional mine jobs. The
       contingency plans involved having mining operations bypass villages resisting resettlement, leaving a 300m gap between the
       quarry and the nearest habitation. A joint CSRP/CSESMP mission reviewed these plans, and were satisfied that they would
       permit the continuation of orderly mine advances over at least the next 5 to 7 years, thus permitting additional time, as and if
       required, to resolve outstanding disputes raised by the PAPs. Since then, provision of additional mine jobs and the introduction
       of the cash grant of Rs. 50,000 have contributed towards overcoming the resistance in all the MCL mines except Belpahar (Aide
       Memoire for mission from August 31 to September 11, 1998, para 49).
   (e) Additional PAFs added to caseload in Muslim Tola and Duru villages: 115. Of these, 57 PAFs have shifted to places of own
       choice with cash grant of Rs. 50,000. The balance of 58 PAFs are planned to be relocated by March 2005.
   (f) The total caseload for resettlement beyond the project closing date is 527 PAFs consisting of the 469 PAFs from the SAR
       caseload plus the balance of 58 PAFs from the additional caseload identified in Parej East.



                                                                     - 60 -

       Annex 11b

                    CSESMP: Status of Economic Rehabilitation 1997 - 2002

Subsidiary Number      No. of         No. of       Avg.            Avg.      Change in
 and Mine of           EPAPs          EPAPS        Individual      Increase  Inflation
           EPAPs       Reporting      Reporting    Income          1997 -    Adjusted
                       Income**       Income in    Rs./month       2002***   EPAP
                                      1997 & 2002                  Rs./month Incomes
                                                                             1997 to 2002
            1997 2002   1997    2002                1997      2002            Increase    De-   Same
                                                                                          crease
   NCL       256   245     256   245       245         824    2,128   1,105        178      4    63
 Jhingurda   256   245     256   245       245         824    2,128   1,105        178      4    63
  MCL       7,230 6,627  4,109  2,316    2,316       2,454    4,699  1,656       2,161     154   2
  Ananta    432   424     232    176      176        3,041    4,635    865        147       28   1
Jagannath   1,674 1,601   698    514      514        2,706    4,725  1,369        478       36   0
Bharatpur   1,552 1,187   745    313      313        2,919    4,990  1,370        290       23   0
Lakhanpur   504   464     346    207      207        2,348    5,167  2,256        201       6    1
Samaleswari 989   925     691    463      463        2,098    4,430  1,829        422       41   0
 Belpahar   2,079 2,036  1,397   643      643        1,614    4,248  2,246        623       20   0
   CCL       745   653     715   648       648         947    2,010    836         432      79   137
    KD        98    84     94     84        84        1,095   2,467   1,109         62      6    16
 Hesalong
 Parej East  647   569     621   564       564         798    1,553    563         370      73   121
  SECL      1,983 1,658   1,768  1,620    1,620       1,257   2,388    721        1,072    126   422
 Bisrampur   506   443     477   443       443        1,132   2,713    769         315      12   116
 Dhanpuri    153   130     139   130       130         916    1,786    650          85      25   20
 Kusmunda    103    93     101    93        93        1,037   1,622    337          44      16   33
  Gevra      466   413     418   402       402        1,235   2,978   1,447        257      37   108
  Dipka      755   573     633   552       552        1,967   2,840    401         371      36   145
   Total   10,214 9,183   6,848  4,829    4,829       1,371   2,806   1,079       3,843    363   624




                                             - 61 -

       Annex 11c

Subsidiary/ No. of   No of                          VWG members who are also or Block
mine        IPDP     Village                        elected toGram members of Development
            Villages Working                        Panchayat or   Gram        Committee
                     Group                          Block          Panchayat or
                     members                        Development
                                                    Committee
                     SC       ST  OBC& Total Women  SC             ST          OBC&      Total Women
                                  others     as % of                           others          as % of
                                             total                                             total
CCL             27
KDHesalong       4
Parej East      11
Rajrappa        12
MCL             27        1     2    7    10   40.0                    1            1       2
Belpahar         7                                                     1            1       2
Lakhanpur        5                   1    1
Samleswari       7                   1    1
Bharatpur        5        1          1    2
Jaganath         3              2    4    6     60
NCL             50        1          8    9    11.1        1                        8       9    11.1
Jhingurda        8
Bina            11                   7    8    12.5        1                        8       8    12.5
Dudhichua        5
Jayant           9
Nighai          17                   1    1                                         1       1
SECL            46        7    30   45    81   17.3        6           23          27      54    18.5
Gevra            5        1     9    2    12                           3            1       4
Dipka            3              5    2    7    14.3
Kusmund          8        2     4    1    7    60.0        2           4            1       7    60.0
Manikpur         8              1    1    2                            1            1       2
Dhanpur          6                   1
Bisrampur       16        4    11   38    53   17.0        4           15          24      43    14.0
WCL             22        9     2    9    20   20.0        9           2            9      20     15
Padmapur         6        2     2    1    5                2                        1       5
Durgapur         6        4          4    8    37.5        4                        4       8    37.5
Sasti            3        3               3                3                                3
Niljai           3                   3    3                                         3       3
Umrer            4                   1    1    100.0                   2            1       1    100.0
Total           172       18   34   69   120    192       16           26          45      79     164




                                             - 62 -

       Annex 11d

SubsidiaryTotal       Asset                                        VWG members                    Community
/ mine    investment  Creation                                     elected toGram                 Activities
          1998-2002   (No. of                                                                     (No. of
                                                                   Panchayat or
          (Rs -,000)  activities)                                                                 activities)
                                                                   Block
                                                                   Development
                                                                   Committee
                     Target       Completed In      Dropped Target Completed      In      Dropped Target      Complet Dropped
                                            progress                              progress                    ed
CCL          4430         118       105               13     106           98                8        241       227     14
KDHesalo     1656          30       29                 1      26           23                3        39        37       2
ng
Parej East   1783          45       42                 3      49           48                1        146       134     12
Rajrappa      991          43       34                 9      31           27                4        56        56
MCL         24003         265       248               17     248          214               34        241       219     22
Belpahar     6769          71       67                 4      75           57               18        94        88       6
Lakhanpur    7796          42       40                 2      53           47                6        41        37       4
Samleswar    3630          47       45                 2      92           91                1        61        54       7
i
Bharatpur    4018          64       62                 2      16            8                8        37        33       4
Jaganath     1790          41       34                 7      12           11                1         8         7       1
NCL         29345         118       116        1       1     404          404                         710       710
Jhingurda    4412          20       19                        40           40                         144       144
Bina         8090          23       22                 1      62           62                         148       148
Dudhichu     3981          17       17                        28           28                         109       109
a
Jayant       6447          30       30                        76           76                         105       105
Nighai       6415          28       28                       198          198                         204       204
SECL        41127         299       252        19     28     174          167                7        425       419      3
Gevra        4895          36       29                 3      2             2                         75        75
Dipka        4534          25       23                 2      21           17                4        41        41
Kusmund      2118          25       24                 1      41           40                1        50        44       3
Manikpur     7750          85       54         15     16      53           53                         139       139
Dhanpur      5546          45       44                 1      14           14                         31        31
Bisrampur   16284          83       76                 5      43           41                2        89        89
WCL          7844         111       108                3     369          363                6       1446      1382     58
Padmapur     1766          32       32                       121          121                         391       366     25
Durgapur     1903          22       21                 1     111          111                         338       320     18
Sasti        1308          29       27                 2      45           39                6        167       150      9
Niljai       1974          19       19                        49           49                         233       230      3
Umrer         893           9        9                        43           43                         317       317
Total       106749        911       829        20     62     1301        1246               55       3063      2957     97




                                                           - 63 -

       Annex 11e


Subsidiary/ Number of      Investment in Community                                O & M                                     O & M
mine        villages with  community     contribution                             arrangements                              undertaken
            IPDP community assets        *
            assets         (Rs-,000)
                                         Only        Deduction   Other (excluding Community       Community Transfer of
                                         deduction   from wages deduction from    contribution in contribution, responsibili
                                         from wages plus cash    wages)           bank account,   plus user     ty to
                                                                                  but no user     charges       Panchayat
                                                                                  charges
CCL                27           3462          27                                         3                                      3
KDHesalon           4           1343           4                                         1                          NO          1
g
Parej East         11           1173          11                                                                    NO
Rajrappa           12            946          12                                         2                          NO          2
MCL                27          21187           8                        19               8                                     26
Belpahar            7           5799                                    7                                           Yes         7
Lakhanpur           5           7253                                    5                                           Yes         5
Samleswari          7           2966                                    7                                           Yes         7
Bharatpur           5           3724           5                                         5                          Yes         5
Jaganath            3           1445           3                                         3                          Yes         2
NCL                46          23131          10          36                                           46                       4
Jhingurda          10           6742                                                                   10           NO
Bina                5           3149                      5                                             5           NO
Dudhichua           9           5221                      9                                             9           NO          4
Jayant              8           3274                      8                                             8           NO
Nighai             14           4745                                                                   14
SECL               45          32299                      39            6               28             10                      11
Gevra               5           4319                      5                              5                          Yes         8
Dipka               3           4248                      3                              3                          Yes         0
Kusmund             7           2128                      7                              4              3           Yes         3
Manikpur            8           7580                      8                                             7           Yes         0
Dhanpur             6           5379                                    6                                           Yes         0
Bisrampur          16          16182                      16                            16                          Yes         0
WCL                21           5735                      21
Padmapur            6           1178                      6                                                         Yes
Durgapur            6           1235                      6                                                         Yes
Sasti               2           1419                      2                                                         Yes
Niljai              3           1312                      3                                                         Yes
Umrer               4            591                      4                                                         Yes
Total              166         85814          45         965            25              39             56                      44




                                                           - 64 -

            Annex 11f


       Subsidiary/     Number of     Value of civil    Award of Work        Status of        Plantation          Application of top soil on OB dumps
          Mine         OB dumps        works (Rs                           civil works activities (no of
                                          -.000)                                               trees)
   CCL
   Parej East               1            174.20          Aug. 30, 2000     Completed           17,500       8,500 cu.m used between 1999-01 on external
                                                                                                            dump. Currently used on internal dump. No
                                                                                                            storage.
   KD Hesalong              1               -               By CCL         Completed           7,500        25,000 cu.m used in 2001. About 30,000 cu.m
                                                                                                            stored.
   Rajrappa                 2            396.00          June 15, 2000     Completed          115,000       20,000 cu.m used.
   NCL
   Nigahi                   2          359,007.00        Jan. 16, 2001     Completed          205,000       Top soil layer is shallow, and is not stored. For
                                                                                                            tree plantation, suitable soil and manure is used
                                                                                                            in the excavated pits where the trees are planted.
   Jayant*                  2          991,958.00        Jan. 16, 2001     Completed          244,700

   Jhingurdah               2          191,174.00        Jan. 19, 2001     Completed          110,000
   Dudhichua                2          190.738.00        Jan. 16, 2001     Completed          338,000
   Bina                     1          482.929.00        Jan. 12, 2001     Completed          100,000
   SECL
   Dhanpuri                 2          20,327.00         Oct. 17, 2000     Completed          113,000       Concurrent application of top soil**
   Gevra                    3          175,270.00         Oct 4, 2000      Completed          140,000       Top soil is stored.
   Dipka                    2          177,567.00         Oct 4, 2000      Completed           60,000       175 million cu.m stored.
   Kusmunda                 9          71,210.00        Sept. 25, 2000     Completed          100,000       Top soil is not stored. Instead, suitable soil and
                                                                                                            manure is used.
   Manikpur                 2          59,098.00         Oct. 31, 2000     Completed          100,000       Top soil is not stored.
   MCL
   Jagannath                4          94,487.00         Oct. 31, 2000     Completed           37,189       Concurrent application of top soil. In addition,
                                                                                                            top soil has been mixed with other OB dump
                                                                                                            materials, which is held to provide better growth
                                                                                                            for mature trees, when their roots reach deeper.
   Bharatpur                4          60,524.00         Nov. 30, 2000     Completed           58,270
   Ananta                   1          49,400.00         Nov. 23, 2000     Completed           15,800
   Samleswari               6           7,800.00         Sept. 5, 2000     Completed           23,365
   Lakhanpur                1           6,010.00         Nov 14, 2000      Completed           11,267
   Belpahar                 7          10,510.00         Nov 14, 2000      Completed          101,699
   WCL                                                                           .
   Durgapur                 5          12,027.00          Sept. 1999       Completed          139,000       Storage of top soil is practiced on a limited scale.
                                                                                                            Mostly concurrent application of top soil.
   Padmapur                 6           7,048.00          Sept. 1999       Completed          143,000
   Sasti                    5               -              By WCL          Completed          136,600
   Niljai                   3           2,828.00          Sept. 1999       Completed           96,500
   Umrer                    2               -              By WCL          Completed          191,000


Notes: * Jayant 1 and 2 have been combined into one dump. The changes were approved by the technical expert, IIT, Kanpur.

** Concurrent application of top soil involves the immediate spreading of top soil when it is excavated on OB dumps that have reached
their planned height or on the portion of backfilled quarrys (internal dumps) that are level with the surrounding area.




                                                                         - 65 -

Annex 11g
                                          Workshop Effluent Treatment Plants
Subsidiary/ Mine Integrated treatment Use of discharges                                          Monitoring results: April to July
                 plant for mine and                                                              2002
                 workshop?                                                                       (Permissible limit: TSS: 100)
CCL
1. KD Hesalong             No         100% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing TSS(100) high- July(246)

2. Rajrappa                No         100% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing TSS(100) high-
                                                                                                 June(120),July(140)
3. Parej East              No         100% is being reused for waterspraying/vehicle washing TSS(100) high- May(118)
SECL
5. Gevra                   No         96% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
6. Dipka                   No         90% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing TSS excessive in
                                                                                                 April(126),May(176)
7. Kusmunda                No         94% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing TSS excessive in April(186)
8. Manikpur                No         90% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
9. Dhanpuri                No         92% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
10. Bisrampur              No         95% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
WCL
11. Durgapur               No         100% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
12. Padmapur               No         100% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
13. Sasti                  No         100% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
14. Niljai                 No         100% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
15. Umrer                  No         100% is being reused for water spraying/vehicle washing Within permissible limits
NCL
16. Dudhichua              Yes        50% is being used for spraying, arrangement for using      Within permissible limits
                                      the balance will be ready shortly.
17. Nigahi                 Yes        100% is being used for spraying.                           Within permissible limits
18. Jhingurda              Yes        100% is being used for spraying.                           TSS excessive in
                                                                                                 May(113),July(164)
19. Bina                   Yes        60%, being used in spraying and deshaling plant,           Within permissible limits
                                      arrangement for using the balance will be ready shortly.
20. Jayant                 Yes        40%, being used for spraying, arrangement for using the Within permissible limits
                                      balance will be ready shortly.
MCL
21. Jagannath              Yes        40%, being used in plantation area and chemical house. Within permissible limits
                                      Rest of the effluent is being discharged in the paddy field
                                      on request from the villagers.
22. Ananta                 Yes        100%, being used for vehicle washing & dust                Within permissible limits
                                      suppression.
23. Samaleswari            Yes        100%, being used in spraying for dust                      Within permissible limits
                                      suppression in roads & CHP, for fire
                                      fighting in coal stocks and vehicle
                                      washing.
24. Bharatpur              Yes        100%, being used for vehicle washing & dust                Within permissible limits
                                      suppression.
25. Belpahar               Yes        System is being developed for reuse.                       Within permissible limits
26. Lakhanpur              Yes        30%, being used for vehicle washing & dust                 Within permissible limits
                                      suppression.




                                                           - 66 -

Annex 11h
                                    CSESMP: Sewage Treatment Plants

Sewage Treatment      Date of       Number      Capacity        BOD        BOD test         TSS test   TSS test
Plants                commis-sio    of          in ml/day       test       result:          result:    result:
                      ning          quarters                    result:    July 2002        Dec. 01    Oct. 01
                                    served                      Dec 01
                                                                           1st              2nd        1st 2nd
CCL
Parej East            Dec. 2000       688           1.0             6             8            7         445854
KD Hesalong           Dec. 2000       665           1.0             6             9            7         489868
Rajrappa              Dec. 2000       1,860         1.5             7             9            7         586458
MCL                                                   .
Samleswari            Dec. 2000       426           0.5          20 (F)          12            16      92 (F)2618
Belpahar/Lakhanpur    Sept. 2000      2,258         1.7          19 (F)          21            13      88 (F)1808
Jagannath             Nov. 2000       723           1.0          22 (J)          19            17      58 (J)5260
Ananta                Nov. 2000       737           0.5          18 (J)          20            23          106
                                                                                                         (J)7935
NCL
Nighai                Sept. 2000      2,442         2.5            22            16            13        333241
Dudhichua II/Jayant Aug. 2000         3,245         4.0            26            16            18        374144
Jhingurda             Aug. 2000       1,185         1.5            23            17            12        383832
Dudhichua I           Aug. 2000       1,736         2.0            20            14            13        463832
Bina                  Sept. 2000      2,337         2.5            17            21            22        423632
SECL
Bisrampur             Feb. 2001       2,223         1.5            17            15            17        272426
Dhanpuri              Feb. 2001       1,042         1.0            19            16            18        285862
Gevra/Dipka           Feb. 2001       4,505         3.0            24            14            16        372638
Kusmunda              March 01        2,267         2.0            30            28            32        296456
Manikpur              March 01        355           0.5            40            14            12        326062
WCL
Umrer                 Sept. 2000      971           1.0            18            19            20        421012
Sasti                 July 2000       599           1.0            21            21            20        981618
Niljai                Aug. 2000       539           0.5            12            16            15        501218
Durgapur/Padmapur Sept. 2000          1,732         2.5            13            20            18         96610
Permissible limits: BOD: 30; TSS: 100. (J): Jan 02 test results. (F): Feb 02 test results. SECL figures from May 02, and
WCL figures from June 02.




                                                           - 67 -

Annex 11i

                     CSESMP: Status of Dust Suppression Measures by June 30, 2002

Subsidiary   Mobile              Fixed        Dust               Black-top       Plantation        Avenue
/ mine     sprinklers            sprinkl      extractors          ping of        other than       plantation
              (Nos)              ers          in drills            roads          Avenue         (Km)
                                 (Km)         (Nos)              (Km)           (Ha)
           Target       Actual Target   Actual Target     Actual Target   Actual Target    Actual Target    Actual
CCL             6          6       4.3   4.04      17       17  3            3      139     139      14.1   14.1
Parej East      2          2       0.8   0.54       2        2                       10      10
KDHesalo        3          3       0.5   0.5        5        5                       61      61       2.6   2.6
ng
Rajrappa        1          1        3      3       10       10       3       3       68      68      11.5   11.5
MCL
Belpahar        2          2                        5        5      2.2    2.2       52     61.5      8      8
Lakhanpu        2          2                        6        6       5       5       56      57       6      52
r
Samleswar       2          2                        5        5       9       9       48      54       9.5    11
i
Bharatpur       2          2                        5        5       6       6       41     55.5      6      23
Jaganath        2          2                        7        7      5.5    5.5       20    26.52      3     2.7


Ananta
                2          2                        8        8      3.23   2.43      32    30.31      8      10

NCL
Jhingurda       2          2                        6        6                       52      52
Bina            6          6                       12       12                       24      24
Dudhichu        6          6       3.7   3.7       12       12      1.2    2.4     112.8   112.8
a
Jayant          8          8       4.1   4.1       18       18      7.75   7.75      18      18
Nighai          6          6                       12       12       3       3      188     188
SECL
Gevra           5          5        2      2       15       15                       50      50
Dipka           4          4       1.5   1.5        8        8      9.7    9.7       47      47       6      6
Kusmund         2          2       2.5   3.2        8        8      6.7    6.7        8       8
Manikpur        2          2       1.7   1.7       11       11      .95    .95       50      50
Dhanpur         2          2       1.5   1.5        6        6      4.35   4.35      50      50
Bisrampur                           2      2        7        7      4.4     52       52      18       18
WCL             5          5      2.25   2.87      37       37                     137.48  137.48     27     27
Padmapur        1          1             .575       6        6                      24.4    24.4      5      5
Durgapur        1          1       .25   .875      10       10                      17.2    17.2     9.5    9.5
Sasti           1          1       .75    .5        6        6                      38.4    38.4      4      4
Niljai          1          1       .25    .4        5        5                     47.08   47.08      4      4
Umrer           1          1        1    .52       10       10                      10.4    10.4     4.5    4.5




* Actual as per site availability




                                                     - 68 -

- 69 -

