Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2862 IN
                   Development Credit Agreement
     (Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 5, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2862 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1996, between  INDIA, Acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by Coal India Ltd.
(Coal India) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Coal India the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Coal
India;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Coal India" means Coal India Ltd., a limited
liability company established under the Borrower's Companies
Act, 1956, as amended;
      (b)   "Environmental Action Plans" and "EAPs" means the
plans prepared by Coal India for the Project Mines (as
hereinafter defined) as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower
or Coal India beginning on April 1 of a Calendar Year and ending
on March 31 of the following Calendar Year;
      (d)   "Indigenous Peoples Development Plans" and "IPDPs"
means the plans prepared by Coal India for the Project Mines as
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of Coal India as amended
to the date of this Agreement;
      (f)   "MOEF" means the Ministry of Environment and Forests
of the Borrower;
      (g)   "NGO" means Non-Governmental Organization established
under the relevant laws of the Borrower;
      (h)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Coal India Ltd. (Coal India), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (i)   "Project Mine" means any mine listed in Schedule 4
to the Development Credit Agreement, and "Project Mines" means
all of such mines;
      (j)   "Rehabilitation Action Plans" and "RAPs" means the
plans prepared by Coal India for the Project Mines as set forth
in Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement; and
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty three million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 43,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be desig-
nated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in
each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 2006 and ending May 1,
2031. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on May 1, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth percent
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
Page  4
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association, shall
have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association
may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet
due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause Coal India to
perform all its obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Coal
India to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit available to Coal India in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for onlending such funds
to its public sector undertakings.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project shall be carried out by Coal
India pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Credit account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at
                  least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last with-
                  drawal from the Credit Account was
                  made; and
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred
                  to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section
                  including those for the Special Account
                  for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such
                  year, a certified copy of the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Associa-
                  tion shall have reasonably requested
                  including a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements
                  of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the pro-
                  cedures and internal controls involved
                  in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   Coal India shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred
Page  6
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Coal India will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Memorandum and Articles of Association
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
operations or financial condition of Coal India or its
ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of Coal India or for the
suspension of its operations.
      (e)   The Borrower, Coal India or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
any of the following subsidiaries of Coal India or
for the suspension of operation of any one of them:
Northern Coal Fields Ltd.; South Eastern Coal Fields
Ltd.; Mahanadi Coal Fields Ltd.; Central Coal Fields
Ltd.; and Western Coal Fields Ltd.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and to Coal India;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d)
and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Coal India, and is legally
binding upon Coal India in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the pur-
poses of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Page  7
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretary to the Government of India
            Department of Economic Affairs
            Ministry of Finance
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.
                        INDIA
                        By /s/  N. Valluri
                                  Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/  Heinz Vergin
                               Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in     Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                               90%
      (a) overburden dump      18,400,000
Page  8
          reclamation
      (b) other                10,200,000
(2)   Equipment, vehicles       7,400,000       100% of foreign
      and materials                             expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Consultant services       4,500,000       100%
      (including services
      provided by NGOs),
      training and studies
(4)   Unallocated               2,800,000
                                _________
      TOTAL                    43,300,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that
of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and
      (b)   under Category (1) (a) with respect to an
overburden dump at a Project Mine until the panel of experts
has approved the recommendations contained in the study with
respect to reclamation of such overburden dump as set forth
in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the
Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts
costing less than $500,000 equivalent, except for the first
ten of such contracts costing less than the equivalent of
$500,000 but more than the equivalent of $200,000; (ii)
goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent;
and (iii) services under contracts costing less than
$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and
$50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower
in its  efforts to make coal production environmentally and
socially more sustainable.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
Page  9
objectives:
Part A:
      Strengthening Coal India's capacity at corporate
headquarters, subsidiary headquarters, area, and mine levels
to deal effectively with the environmental and social issues
of coal mining operations, through the carrying out of
studies and the provision of training and related technical
assistance.
Part B:
      Carrying out Environmental Action Plans, Rehabilitation
Action Plans and Indigenous Peoples Development Plans for 25
opencast coal mines as set out in Schedule 4 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, including, inter alia, carrying out of
related works and provision of goods and technical assistance.
Part C:
      Carrying out a tracer study of the resettlement and
rehabilitation efforts relating to Coal India's Dudhichua,
Jharia and Gevra opencast mines, in order, inter alia, to
identify persons who were affected by the Dudhichua Coal
Project, the Jharia Coking Coal Project and the Coal
Mining Coal Quality Improvement Project, and whose income
are below the poverty line established by the Borrower,
and formulate and implement an action program to raise
their income above the poverty line.
                          *      *      *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means
Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pur-
suant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be
made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance
with the provisions of this Schedule.
      (b)   Each payment (including a payment under a
letter of credit) for an eligible expenditure in an amount
equal to or less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be
made exclusively out of the Special Account. The Bank may
from time to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the
threshold amount specified in the previous sentence.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
Page  10
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis
of such request or requests, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
                  tion requests for deposits into the
                  Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Association the documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenish-
                  ment is requested.  On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on
                  behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                  Credit Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as
                  shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been paid out
                  of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Cate-
gories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish
to the Association, within the period of time specified in
Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pur-
suant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
Page  11
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at
any time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at
any time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                        List of Project Mines
Mine             Date of EAP       Date of RAP       Date of IPDP
Ananta           May 1995          December 1994     Not Required
Belpahar         "                 "                 November 1995
Bharatpur        "                 "                 "
Bina             "                 Not Required      "
Bisrampur        "                 December 1994     "
Dhanpuri         "                 "                 "
Dipka            "                 "                 "
Dudhichua        "                 Not Required      "
Page  12
Durgapur         "                 Not Required      "
Gevra            "                 December 1994     "
Jagannath        "                 "                 "
Jayant           "                 Not Required      "
Jhingurdah       "                 December 1994     "
KD Hesalong      "                 "                 "
Kusmunda         "                 "                 "
Lakhanpur        "                 "                 "
Manikpur         "                 Not Required      "
Nigahi           "                 Not Required      "
Niljai           "                 Not Required      "
Padmapur         "                 Not Required      "
Parej East       "                 December 1994     "
Rajrappa         "                 Not Required      "
Samaleswari      "                 December 1994     "
Sasti            "                 Not Required      "
Umrer            "                 Not Required      "
