                                                      INDIA
            COAL SECTORENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIALMITIGATIONPROJECT
                                             (CREDIT NO.2862-IN)

       MANAGEMENT REPORT ON STATUS OF OUTSTANDINGISSUES FOLLOWING
   THE INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATION REPORTNo. 24000 AND MANAGEMENT'S
                                                   RESPONSE



INTRODUCTION

 1.       A Boardmeetingheld on July 22,2003 discussed the findings o fthe InspectionPanel's
Investigation Report o f the India Coal Sector Environmental and SocialMitigation Project (CSESMP).
This Report focused exclusively on the Parej East mine, which was one o fthe 25 mines to receive support
under the project. Management's Report and Recommendationinresponse to the Inspection Panel
InvestigationReport was submitted on M a y 6,2003 and revised on July 25,2003, following the Board
discussion. "The Board endorsed the findings o f the Panel, while noting that the project had positively
influenced Coal India's policies on environmental and social issues and that nearly 90% o f the project
affected persons inParej East mine had improvedor restoredtheir incomes at the time o f project
completion."'

2.       Management indicated inthe Report its intention to continue to: "(i)      monitor provision o f
support to communities.. .including the issuance o f land titledlong-term leases to PAPs; (ii)   encourage
establishment o f an IndependentMonitoring Panel to support resolution o f issues related to subsistence
allowances and land titling; and (iii)   advise GO1on apparent entitlements for subsistence allowances for
 121eligible families inParej East."'

3.       The Board endorsed Management's action plan to continue to supervise and monitor the project
"to ensure that the outstanding issues relating to resettlement and environment are substantially
resolved.. ."3 and to report to the Board on the status o f these issues at regular intervals. The specific
activities which the Board endorsed Management to continue to supervise and monitor were:

    e    Economic rehabilitation o f 73 project affected persons (PAPs) who experienced a decrease in
         income duringthe project period;
    0    Settlement o f claims for PAPs cultivating land under customary tenure;
    0    Provision o f long-term leases to PAFs for their house plots inthe resettlement site;
    e    Disbursement o f subsistence allowance fund by GOI;
    0    Delivery o f compensation and relocation entitlements;
    e    Water quality at the resettlement sites;
    e    Reclamation o f mine land for agricultural use;
    0    Mechanisms for consultation and dissemination o fproject related information to PAPs; and
    e    Possible establishment o f an Independent Monitoring Panel (IMP).


4.       The purpose o f this report i s to comply with the Board's request to be periodically updated on the
status o f issues. It concludes that given the outcome o f its ongoing dialogue with GO1and other key

' World Bank News Release No:2004/30/SAR. July 25, 2003.
2 Management Report and Recommendation. July 25,2003.
3 Minutes of Meetingo f the Executive Directors o f the Bank and IDA. July 22, 2003.


                                                     - 1 -

 stakeholders, as well as the progress made to date in some areas and the varied impact o f Bank
 involvement inothers, Management will reassess the extent and nature o f its involvement through the end
 o f September 2005, and present its recommendationsto Senior Management on the scope and scale o f
 any further Bank involvement.

 5.       Specifically, inlight o f the uneven progress made to date, due inpart to the level o f cooperation
 o f various stakeholders, Management proposes a revised action plan that ends its current supervisory
 responsibilities for selected issues, yet continues engagement on issues where Bank involvement can still
 have a beneficial impact.

 6.       Inorder to allow the opportunity for two further Bankmissions, September 30,2005 hasbeenset
 as a target date for reviewingprogress, with the understanding that, on issues where the level o f
 stakeholder cooperation i s not contributing to progress towards resolution, Bank involvement would
 either be terminated or modified to providing advice and technical assistance as needed and/or requested.
 Management's reassessment report will be submitted to the Board by October 30,2005.

 7.       The following section provides an overview o f the Bank's involvement following the Technical
Briefing to members o f the Board on September 15,2004.

BACKGROUND

 8.       Over the past 19 months, Management has carried out its commitment to the Board to seek
 substantial resolution to the issues identified inthe Board endorsed action plan. Since the Boardmeeting
on July 22,2003, members o f the Bank's supervision team have made five visits to the project area, and
the Country Director for India has had three meetings with the Government o f India (July 20, 2004,
February 17,2005, and February 25,2005), to seek their active cooperation inresolving outstanding
issues.

9.        On September 15,2004, Managementprovided a Technical Briefing to members o f the Board.
Duringthis briefing, Managementprovidedan update onthe status o fthe nine issues it agreed to
supervise and monitor, respondedto questions from members o f the Board, and outlined its monitoring
and supervision plan for FY05.

 10.      Duringthe Technical Briefing, the Government o fIndiaalso clarified its positionon the
resolvability o f a number o f issues. Regarding the provision o f long-term leases, GO1stated that existing
Indian law (the Coal Bearing Areas Act), precludes the possibility o f providing long-term leases to PAPS.
However, duringrecent meetings between the Country Director and GOI, the Department o f Economic
Affairs (DEA) informed the Bank that Ministryo f Coal (MOC) has finalized amendments to the Coal
Bearing Areas Act to provide long-term leases to PAPs, and that these amendments have been vetted by
the Ministry o f Law. DEA also stated that these amendments are proposed to be introduced duringthe
current session o f the Parliament. However, once these amendments are introduced, it i s unclear how long
it will take for them to pass.

11,      A letter received inSeptember 2004 fi-om GO1concluded that the additional subsistence
allowance for PAFs inParej East was included inthe 1994 ResettlementAction Plan (RAP) by oversight
and i s not required under the Bank's policy for income restoration. Both CIL and GO1stated that
providing an additional subsistence allowance to 121PAFs would set an unacceptable precedent which
would be unsustainable for CIL's 500 mines. However, C C L has indicated that itwould be willing to
look into altemative options for additional income generation support for entitled families, following the
completion o f the consultation exercise being undertaken by the Xavier Institute o f Social Service (XISS).




                                                    - 2 -

 12.     On February 24,2005 the Bank received a copy o fthe XISS interim consultationreport, which
provideda draft action plan for assistance to the families, who the report identified as eligible for
 additional assistance. The Bank will review the consultation report and provide inputsto the draft action
planprior to the next mission inM a y 2005.

 13.     Inits September 2004letter, GO1also confirmeditsviewthatcircumstances onthegrounddonot
warrant the constitution o f an Independent Monitoring Panel and that regular Bank supervision missions
may suffice to provide the necessary monitoring. The Bank accepts the position o f GO1and no further
action on this issue i s envisaged.

 14.     Since the Technical Briefing on September 15, 2004, members o f the Bank supervision team have
made two visits to the project area, and maintained an open dialogue with GO1and Coal India Limited
 (CIL). The first mission following the Technical Briefing visited CIL headquarters inKolkata, Central
Coalfields Limited (CCL) headquarters inRanchi, and the Parej East mine inthe Hazaribagh area
between October 4 and October 12,2004. The primary purpose o f this mission was for the Bank to seek
the commitment o f key stakeholders - CIL, CCL, Chotanagpur Adivasi Sewa Samiti (CASS), XISS, and
the project affected people (PAPs) -to collaborate with one another on the development o f an approach
to substantially resolve the issues related to economic rehabilitation.

 15.     Duringthis visit, discussions were held directly with the Chairmano fCIL, CCL subsidiary and
project officials, the PAPs and CASS at the Pindra resettlement site, as well as a further meeting with the
members o f CASS at their offices inVillage Kasiadih. Inaddition, the Team Leader conducted an
analysis o f the issues that were affecting progress, and reviewed the appropriateness o f the current Bank
team's skill mix to address these issues.

 16.     The results o f this analysis indicated that there were four main challenges that were affecting the
Bank's efforts to facilitate resolution of the issues: (i) the difficulty o f the key stakeholders to
communicate directly with one another; (ii)    a misinformation campaign inthe village regarding the
Panel's findings and the scope o f the Bank's continued involvement; (iii)      speculative expectations o f
some o f the key stakeholders regarding the benefits that would accrue to them due to the Bank's
continued involvement; and (iv) assumptions about the extent of the Bank's influence ina closedproject.
As a number o f the issues affecting the Bank's efforts were relatedto communication and stakeholder
relations, the Team Leader added a Senior External Affairs Officer and an Organizational Effectiveness
consultant to the team.

17.      From November 30 -December 2, 2004 the Senior Extemal Affairs Officer visited CCL
headquarters inRanchi and the Parej East mine inthe Hazaribagh area in order to assist C C L with the
development o f a communications strategy which would: (i)        improve their direct relationship with CASS
and the community; and (ii)    counteract the misinformation campaign by providing accurate information
to the PAPs.

18.      On December 17, 2004 CCL's new Area General Manager met with CASS as the first step in
what i s expected to be an ongoing dialogue between the two parties. A subsequent meeting, which was to
take place duringFebruary 2005 has not yet been scheduled. Additionally, inan effort to improve its
relations with the community, CCL held a meeting with representatives o f each o f the social groups on
February 18,2005. The Bank i s awaiting feedback from CCL on the results of this meeting.

19.      The status o f issues under the current Board endorsed action plan, are summarized below:




                                                    - 3 -

 S T A T U S OF I S S U E S

 Issue 1: Economic rehabilitation o f 73 project affected persons (PAPs) who experienced a decrease
 inincome duringthe project period

 20.      A s o f MarcWApril2002, data from Parej East indicated that an overwhelming majority (87.1%)
 o f the PAPs have been able to maintain or increase their incomes4duringthe project period. These data
 also show that duringthe period o f RAP implementation (from 1997 to 2002) the percentage o f female
 PAPs earning an income increased dramatically, from 4.1% to 57.8%. Among the 270 female PAPs in
Parej East, 97.8% have been able to maintain or increase their incomes duringthe project period. The
 affected tribal population experienced similar improvements. InParej East, there were 194 PAPs
belonging to one o f the Scheduled Tribes who provided income information for both the 1997 and 2002
 censuses. Of these, 88.7% maintained or increased their incomes duringthe project period. Inaddition,
 the number o f tribal PAPs with above-poverty-line incomes more than doubled duringthe project period.
 Ofthe 73 PAPs inParej East who reported a decrease inindividual incomes, twenty-nine belongedto
households whose incomes had increased duringthe project period.

 21,      Duringthe November 2003 mission, the Bank and CIL agreed that CCL would investigatethe
reasons why these PAPs experienced a decrease inincome. InParej East, an initial survey was undertaken
by the Community Development/Resettlementand Rehabilitation (CD/R&R) Officer and a further
verification survey was to be undertakenby XISS, the former facilitating NGO. The survey was
 scheduled to be carried out inJuly/August2004, the results o f which would be used by CCL and CIL, in
consultation with the Bank, to determine what additional support, ifany, would be made available to
those PAPs who experienced a decrease inincome.

22.       After some initial delays, CIL reported that the survey by XISS began on September 9,2004.
Throughout the course of their work, the staff o fXISS have experienced increasingresistance from the
PAPs, arising inpart from posters inthe village which providedmisinformation regarding the nature and
scope o f the InspectionPanel's findings. Duringan October 2004 visit to the Pindra resettlement site, the
frustration o f the people over their expectations not being met, was clearly evident. As a result o f
misinformation, the PAPs are under the impression that the Inspection Panel's findings are legally binding
and that the Bank will force the Government o f India to implement them. For example, "The World Bank
inorder to rectify its own mistakes has orderedthe IndianGovernmentto pay $300,000 to the 121
families o f Parej East OCP."' The people are also under the impressionthat this money has already been
given to CCL and that it i s being withheld from them. The people have been urged to "Wake up for your
rights and existence!'I6

23.      The purpose o f the XISS survey i s to determine which o f the 73 PAPs who reported a decrease in
income in 2002 were still inneed of additional assistance, and to subsequently prepare an action plan
based on those findings. Duringthe October 2004 meeting with the PAPs at the Pindra resettlement site,
discussions revealedthat the very existence o f a list o f PAPSwho reported decreased incomes i s highly
contentious. There has been a great deal o f debate among the people about who should be on the list and
why certain people are on the list while others are not. CASS has also raisedtheir objections to the list
and stated that they have their own list o f 30 individuals who are inneed o f assistance and should be
included inany follow-up activities. The XISS Project Officer incharge o f the survey informed the Bank
that he has recorded these comments and complaints, and they will be included inthe final report.



'All  income informationhas been adjusted for inflation.
  Village poster.
  Ibid.


                                                     - 4 -

 24.      Duringdiscussions with the PAPs duringthe October 2004 visit, coal loading at the Ulhara dump
 was mentioned by the PAPs as one way to satisfy their interest in a daily wage. However, the PAPs have
 also complained that since the dump committee and local political leaders have taken control o f truck
 distribution away from CCL, their allotment of trucks has been irregular. Inorder to address the
 complaints from the PAPs regarding irregularities intruck distribution, CCL officials held a variety o f
 meetings with PAPs as well as local leaders to devise a more workable approach that would ensure the
 regular allotment o f trucks to PAPs.

 25.      Duringthese meetings, itwas agreedbetweenthe Bank, CCL, and the PAPsthat regarding coal
 loading at the Ulhara dump, (i)  the PAPs will submit a fresh list o f dangals (groups) interested intruck
 loading to CCL; (ii)   one personnominated by the PAPs from among these groups will be responsible for
 distributingthe trucks for loading on a rotational basis; (iii)records o f truck distribution will be kept ina
 register; and (iv) the overall process will be reviewedby a C C L supervisor. The distribution system
 would be recorded in a register, and it i s expected that this approach will support more regular allotment
 o f trucks and income for interestedPAPs.

 26.      CCL has informedthe Bank inJanuary 2005, that a fresh list o f 34 dangals (groups)' has been
 submitted, that a personfrom each group has beennominatedto oversee truck distribution, records are
 being maintained, and a CCL supervisor i s reviewing the functioning o f the overall system.

 27.      The Bank received a copy o f the interim survey report on February 24,2005. The survey
 indicates that o f the 73 PAPs who reported a decrease inincome in 2002, 18 persons have been able to
 increase their incomes beyond pre-project levels, while 38 persons have either retired, receivedjobs with
 the company, migrated out o f the area, or died. For the 17 persons that the survey indicates require
 further assistance, Coal India has prepared a draft action plan, which focuses primarily on assisting the
 PAPs with securing coal loadingjobs, as per their request inOctober 2004 .The Bank will review the
 survey results with XISS, CIL, and CCL, and provide input to the draft action plan prior to the next
mission inM a y 2005.

28.       The extent and nature o f the Bank's involvement on this issue will be reassessed by September
 30, 2005.

Issue 2: Settlement of claims for PAPs cultivatinglandunder customary tenure

29.       Consistent with the World Bank's OD 4.30, CIL's R&R Policy states that "tribals cultivating land
under traditional rights" should be recognized as entitled to compensation. Under Indian Law, PAFs must
establish that they have a valid claim to the land (i.e. that they indeed had traditional rights) before
compensation can be paid. Claims for rights to land cultivated under customary tenure -referred to as
Ghair Mazuwa Khas (GMK) land inthe Hazaribagharea -are examined on a case-by-case basis by the
District authorities. For recognized claims, the compensation amount i s calculated inthe same manner as
for private (or so-called `tenancy') land. Claims to rights over land are often not accompanied by
adequate records o f occupancy and the establishment o f `legitimate' claims i s open to abuse. The disputes
over GMK land stem from the fact that there are ambiguous historical records o f occupancy, and thus o f
tenancy. Occupancy rights need to be verified, which has proven to be a protractedprocess, before
compensation can be paid.

30.      A total o f 41 claims (26 from Parej village and 15 from Durukasmar village) for landbeing
cultivated under customary tenure have been filed with District and State authorities by families fkom the


7  10 dangals from Ganjutola, 2 dangals fromSahtola, 5 dangals from TudBorwatola, and 17 dangals fromMuslim
tola.


                                                    - 5 -

 two villages affected by the expansion o f the Parej East mine. Of the 26 claims from Parej village, 13 o f
 the claims have been authenticated in favor o f PAFs, and the requisite compensation has beenpaid to 10
 families. For the three remaining authenticated claims, CCL has informed the Bank that the paperwork i s
 being processed for payment on two o f the claims, while for the last remaining authenticated claim, the
 head o f household has died and his dependents have been advisedto submit the necessary information to
 the Circular Officer so that compensationcan be paid. As yet, the dependents have not come forward.

 31.      The remaining claims by 13 families have been rejected, an o f these, 8 families have filed an
 appeal with the State Tribunal inwhich the Union o f IndidCCL and the State o f Jharkhand are also
 parties. Evidence on behalf o f the claimants has been completed. Evidence on behalf o f the Union o f
 IndiaKCL i s inprogress. Testimony has been heard five times between September 20,2004 and
 February 15,2005, The next hearing date has been scheduled for March 19,2005.

 32.      Of the 15 claims from Durukasmar village, 9 o f the claims have beenauthenticated infavor o f the
 PAFs, and compensation has been assessed for 6 families. Clarification regarding the type o f land i s
required from the Forest Department and the Land and Revenue Department before payment can be
made. CCL has submitted the request for clarification on September 13, 2004. For the 3 remaining
 authenticated claims, the land authenticated i s not required for mining, the families will not be disturbed,
and therefore these claims are no longer applicable. N o appeals have thus far been filed with the State
Tribunal by the 6 families whose claims have been rejected.

 33.     Inan effort to expeditetheprocess, the Bankmet withthe Jharkhand State Secretary for Land
Revenue, who agreed to actively pursue the District authorities to settle outstanding claims and ensure
their timely resolution. The supervision team also met with the District Collector chargedwith
authenticating claims for Parej East, and he assured the mission that he would give priority to outstanding
claims. Despite these assurances and the emphasis placed on this issue by the Bank inall its missions, the
pace o f progress has been slow.

34.      The extent and nature o f the Bank's involvement on this issue will be reassessed by September
30,2005.

Issue3: Provisionof long-termleases to PAPSfor their houseplots inthe resettlementsite

35.      Security o f land tenure i s viewed by the Bank as a critical aspect o f successful resettlement. The
Bank first raised this issue with GO1in 1991, duringthe very early stages o f project preparation. By the
time the original 1994 RAP for Parej East was prepared, CCL had already acquired the Pindra
resettlement site under a law8that does not allow for the provision o f land title to the PAFs.

36.      InJuly 1997, GO1agreed inthe Minutesofthe CSRPNegotiations to "take the necessary action
to obtain from the relevant authorities written waivers or consent to grant PAPSrenewable long-term
leases....!Igto their house plots. Apatta (land title) format for long-term renewable leases proposed by
CIL was forwarded to the Ministryo f Coal (MOC) on March 30, 1999. Regardingthe Pindra
resettlement site inParej East, specifically, a draft lease agreement was sent to the Director, Department
o f Coal inMOC on April 1,2000. The matter o f long-term leases was then referred to the Ministry o f
Law.

37.      The Ministryo f L a w communicatedto CIL that while ownership cannot be transferred to the
PAFs, it i s willing to consider requests from the subsidiaries to enter into agreements (long-term leases)


  The Coal Bearing Areas Act.
  Minutes o f CSRP Negotiations, para. 38. July 1997.


                                                    - 6 -

 with individual PAFsregardingtheir use o fthe land. It also indicatedthat these agreements will be
 considered by the Ministryo f L a w on a case-by-case basis. CIL re-submitted individual case applications
 to the Ministryo f L a w inM a y 2001.

 38.      Duringthe Bank's discussions with GO1duringevery supervisions mission, regardingthe
 provision o f long-term leases, GO1stated that existing Indianlaw (the Coal Bearing Areas Act), precludes
 the possibility o f providing long-term leases to PAPS. However, duringrecent meetings between the
 Country Director and GOI, the Department o f Economic Affairs (DEA) informed the Bank that Ministry
 o f Coal (MOC) has finalized amendments to the Coal Bearing Areas Act to provide long-term leases to
 PAPS,and that these amendments have beenvetted by the Ministryo f Law. DEA also stated that these
 amendments are proposed to be introduced duringthe current session o f the Parliament. However, it i s
 unclear whether these amendments will pass, and inwhat timeframe.

 39.      The extent and nature o f the Bank's involvement on this issue will be reassessed by September
 30,2005.

 Issue4: Disbursementof subsistence allowancefund by GO1

 40.      Among the provisions o f the August 1994 Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for Parej East,
 preparedby CIL's Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI), Section 3.4.4 refers to a
 `subsistence allowance'" payable for 20 years to those PAFs who lose their land and do not opt for jobs
 or do not qualify for ajob. None o f the RAPSfor the other CIL subsidiaries include this type o f
 subsistence allowance, as it i s not based on CIL's R&R Policy.

41.       A letter receivedinSeptember 2004 from GO1concluded that the additional subsistence
 allowance for PAFs inParej East was included inthe 1994 Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) by oversight
and i s not required under the Bank's policy for income restoration. Both CIL and GO1stated that
providing an additional subsistence allowance to 121PAFs would set an unacceptable precedent which
would be unsustainable for CIL's 500 mines. However, CCL has indicated that itwould be willing to
look into altemative options for additional income generation support for entitled families, following the
completion o f the consultation exercise beingundertaken by the Xavier Institute o f Social Service (XISS).

42.      CIL hiredXISS to undertake the consultation exercise concurrently with the survey (described in
Issue 1). After some initial delays, C I L reported that the consultation exercise began on September 9,
2004. Throughout the course o f their work, the staff o f XISS have experienced increasing resistance from
the PAFs, arising inpart from incomplete or misinformation posted inthe village about the nature and
scope o f the Inspection Panel's findings, and through posters" placed inthe villages. The completed
consultation exercise i s expected to be received by February 15,2005.

43.      OnFebruary24,2005 the Bankreceiveda copy o fthe XISS interimconsultationreport, which
provided a draft action plan for assistance to the families, who the report identified as eligible for
additional assistance. The Bank will review the results o fthe survey with XISS, CIL, and CCL, and
provide input to the draft action plan prior to the next mission inM a y 2005.

10The unit o f entitlement for this subsistence allowance, as specified inthe 1994 Parej East RAP, i s not the
individual, but the family. For families losing up to one acre o f land, a subsistence allowance "at the rate o f Rs.300
per month + an ex-gratia amount o f Rs.lOOper month" would be provided for twenty years. For families losing
more than one acre o f land, a subsistence allowance o f "Rs.300 per monthper acre subject to a maximum o f
Rs.1,000 per month+ an ex-gratia amount o fRs.100per month" would be providedfor 20 years. The 1994Parej
East RAP also indicates that 54 percent o f the PAFs there were landless (while another 40 percent owned less than
2.5 acres o f land).
'' See Annex 2 for the translation o f the village poster.


                                                       - 7 -

44.      The extent andnature o f the Bank's involvement on this issue will be reassessedby September
30, 2005.

Issue 5: Deliveryof compensation and relocationentitlements

45.      Compensation and relocation entitlements have beenpaid to all PAFs who have been resettled to
date. InJune 2004, CCL clarified that o f the 110 PAFs that remain to be resettled, 87 PAFs in
Durukasmar are beingrelocated as part o f normal mine expansion, not related to the Bank investment,
and will not need to relocate untilafter March2006. Project relatedresettlement has been completed on
schedule, and compensation and relocation entitlements have been paid to 19 of the 23PAFs who were to
be resettledby December 2004, while payment to the remaining 4 PAFs i s inprocess.

46.      A total o f 27 PAFs have filed cases withthe State Tribunal for increased compensation. The
State Tribunal has awarded higher payment to 9 PAFs, and thisjudgment has been appealed to the High
Court by CCL. The last hearing date was scheduled for February 15,2005, and the next hearing date i s
scheduled for March 19, 2005. The delivery o f compensation and relocation entitlements will continue to
be govemed by State procedures, and ifthe PAFs exercise their right to apply to the courts for higher
compensation, delays, over which the Bank has no control, are likely to result.

47.      As the process for compensation andrelocation entitlement are govemed bywell established
State procedures, the Bank concludes its supervisory responsibility, but will continue to monitor this issue
through September 30,2005.

Issue6: Water quality at the resettlement sites

48.      Inits Report o fJuly 2003, Managementrecommendedthat institutional arrangements beputin
place for monthly monitoring o f water quality at all resettlement sites together with independent
verification, as well as measures to mitigate any results outside the parameters defined by Indian law.
Duringthe November 2003 supervision missionCCL agreedto reintroduce coliformbacteriacounts
(measured by the Maximum Probable Number per 100ml) into their work order to the CMPDI forthwith.

49.      Since November 2003 CCL has comprehensively monitored all necessary drinkingwater
parameters, includingcoliform. Cleaning of wells and bleaching powder treatment o f well water i s also
being done regularly. The water analysis for M a y 2004 showed that the coliform count inthe drinking
water sources at the resettlement sites was nil. Duringthe June 2004 mission, CCL agreed with the Bank
that the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI) they will monitor water quality at all water
sources on a monthly basis, and this has been done.

50.      Duringthe October 2004 visit, the monthly water quality reportswere reviewed bythe Bank, and
all parameters were found to be within permissible Indian limits. Despite this, CASS continues to insist
that the drinkingwater inthe resettlement sites i s unclean and has suggested that it conduct its own
quality tests. The latest water samples were collected on February 22, 2005 and the Bank i s awaiting the
analysis o fresults.

51.     As water quality monitoringis being satisfactorily addressedby CMPDI, the Bank concludes its
supervisory responsibility o f this issue.

Issue7: Reclamationof mine landfor agriculturaluse

52.     The provision o f replacement land for PAPSthrough utilization o f unused or reclaimed mine land
was proposed by the World Bank in late 1997, and pursued insuccessive supervision missions. During



                                                  - 8 -

the wrap-up meeting with M O C in October 2002, the supervision mission was informed that the Ministry
o f L a w had decided that since the land was acquired under the Coal Bearing Areas Act, ownership cannot
be transferred to the PAPs, but the subsidiary can enter into an agreement with the PAPs regardingtheir
use o f the land. The mission was further infomed that such an agreement would now be established.
However, to date, there has beenno such agreement.

53.       When the supervision team raised this issue duringthe June 2004 mission, CCL stated that in
cooperation with the Forest Department, it had hired a number o f PAPSover the past year to undertake
several tasks, includingbackfilling inminingareas, the plantation o f 17,000 trees o f different species in
two overburden dump (OB) sites, as well as catchment treatment and development o f a drainage system at
OB sites. While the Bank i s pleased to note CCL's efforts to employ PAPs, this type o f employment i s
sporadic and does not provide the PAPs with a sustainable source o f income o f the type that would be
available to them if they were granted long-term use rights to unused or reclaimed mine land.

54.       Indiscussions withthe Bank over the past sixmonths, CCL has indicatedthat depending onthe
results o f the XISS survey, they may consider the allocation o freclaimed mine land for land-based
income generation activities. While the draft action plan submitted inconjunction with the XISS survey
reports on February 24, 2005 does not propose land-based income generation activities, the Bank will
review these reports and provide inputs to the draft action plans prior to the next mission inM a y 2005.
However, CCL's future need o f the land for underground mining, lack o f legal clarity regarding use
rights,and CCL's obligation to retum the landto the State govemment once miningoperations have been
completed, further complicate a decision on this matter and makes it an unlikely option.

55.       The extent and nature o f the Bank's involvement on this issue will be reassessed by September
30,2005.

Issue 8: Mechanisms for consultationanddissemination ofprojectrelatedinformationto PAPs

56.       A s mentioned under Issue 1, the existence o f incomplete information and misinfomation inParej
East has had a significant impact on the Bank's ability to facilitate a resolution o f this issue as well as
others. The Bank team has considered ensuring access to accurate infomation a top priority. A Senior
Extemal Affairs Officer from the N e w Delhi Office visited CCL headquarters inRanchi and the Parej
East mine from November 30 - December 2,2004 to assist CCL with the development o f a
communications strategy which would: (i)       improve CCL's direct relationship with CASS and the
community; and (ii)    counteract the misinformation campaign by providing accurate information to the
PAPS.

57.      As part o f the strategy, CCL's new Area General Manager would attempt to engage CASS
constructively by inviting them to attend a one-on-one meeting with him. The purpose o f this meeting i s
to provide CASS with an opportunity to air their grievances directly with CCL management, and would
constitute the first step inwhat i s expected to be an ongoing dialogue between the two parties. C C L
reported that the first meeting between the Area General Manager and CASS took place on December 17,
2004. A subsequent meeting, which was to take place duringFebruary 2005 has not yet been scheduled.

58.      Inadditionto the efforts madebyCCLto improvetheir relationshipwith CASS, CCLwould also
begin improving their relationship with the community by providing accurate information to the PAPs
about the potential benefits and risks o f various options for economic rehabilitation. This would be done
by invitingthree to four credible representatives o f each social group inthe affected area (Muslims,
Ganjus, Turis, Manjhis, Prasads, etc.) who would be identified by CCL and XISS, to a meeting with mine
management. CCL held this meeting with representatives o f each o f the social groups on February 18,
2005, and the Bank i s awaiting feedback from CCL on the outcome. At this meeting:



                                                   - 9 -

    0    The community leaders would be invitedto raise all their doubts and questions;
    0    CCL would outline its rehabilitationpolicies and plans, distributingas muchinformation as
         possible inwriting;
    0    XISS would explain the purpose, process, and results o f the present survey; and
         Following the meeting, the participants would be provided recordedminutes along with any other
         written material.

 59.     The extent and natureo f the Bank's involvement on this issue will be reassessedby September
 30,2005.

 Issue 9: Constitution of an Independent MonitoringPanel(IMP)

 60.     Inits September 2004 letter to the Bank, the GO1has confirmed itsview that circumstances on
the ground do not warrant the constitution o f an independent monitoring panel and that regular Bank
 supervision missions may suffice to provide the necessary monitoring. Given the limitednature and
 scope o f the issues remaining inParej East, the Bank has agreed that the constitution o f an Independent
Monitoring Panel would not be able to further expedite resolution o f the issues discussed above.

 61.     The Bank concludes its supervisory responsibility o f this issue.

CONCLUSION

62.      While CIL and GO1have indicated their willingness to act on many o f the outstanding issues and
have promised to resolve a number o f them, this willingness has not always resulted inthe desired
progress on the ground. While there has been progress insome areas, the pace o f resolution in others has
been affectedby the nature and complexity o f the issues, the difficulty o f delivering implementing agency
obligations within the prevailing legal context, and the desire o f some stakeholders to expand the role o f
the Bank.

63.      Management has noted diminishingreturns regarding its efforts to facilitate desiredresolutions,
and an increasing risk to its project staff. Although Management i s encouraged by the recent intensified
efforts o f the Government o f India to address some o f the most challenging issues, Management has also
come to realize that no amount o f Bank supervision and monitoringwill be able to bring about substantial
resolution o f the remaining issues without the cooperation and a concertedeffort by all stakeholders with
decision-making authority, includingGOI, CIL, CASS, and the people themselves. Inan effort to
encourage timely solutions which will have a positive impact on the livelihoods o f the people o f Parej
East, Management renews its request to all stakeholders to continue to collaborate with the Bank, and
each other.

64.     Management will reassess the extent and nature o f its involvement by September 30, 2005, and
present its recommendationsto Senior Management o n the scope and scale o f any further Bank
involvement. Management's reassessment report will be submitted to the Board by October 30,2005.




                                                  - 10-

t-    a    a         a




     a




     a         a      a




     a              a

 I
c\l
3
 I

     a




          I
          M
          4
          I
I

I     I .    0    0




                       2
                       I




                       I




I    I

 I   I. .    .



     l




I   I.

3
W
a,
2
o
m

c
m
v)
r:
0

      .   .



 I .     .  .




I .  .

 a    a




 a




                                 I
                                00
                             i

                                 I




D          a     8         8




,           a         a    a

