Page  1
                                                 CONFORMED COPY
                                         CREDIT NUMBER 2862 IN
                         Project Agreement
     (Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                          COAL INDIA LTD.
                        Dated June 5, 1996
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2862 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and COAL INDIA LTD.
(Coal India).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between INDIA (the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty three million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 43,300,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Coal India agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      WHEREAS Coal India, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
Page  2
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Coal India declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Coal India shall carry out the Environmental
Action Plans, Rehabilitation Action Plans and Indigenous
Peoples' Development Plans for each Project Mine, in
accordance with the provisions of such Plans, and to
that end shall promptly inform the Borrower and the
Association of any material deviations in respect of the
implementation thereof.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and except as the
Association and Coal India shall otherwise agree, Coal
India shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) Coal India shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, Coal
India shall:
            (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines
                   acceptable to the Association, and
                   furnish to the Association not later
                   than six (6) months after the Closing
                   Date or such later date as may be
                   agreed for this purpose between
                   the Borrower and the Association, a
                   plan designed to ensure the sustain-
                   ability of the Project; and
            (ii)   afford the Association a reasonable
                   opportunity to exchange views on said
                   plan.
      Section 2.04. (a) Coal India shall, at the request
of the  Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the  progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   Coal India shall promptly inform the Association
Page  3
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Coal India of
its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of Coal India
      Section 3.01. Coal India shall carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and environmental practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. Coal India shall at all times operate
and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and environ-
mental practices.
      Section 3.03. Coal India shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) Coal India shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
and the operations with respect to the Project of each
subsidiary company which assists in carrying out the Project
and each Project Mine.
      (b)   Coal India shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements)
                  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such year,
                  (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited and
                  (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof, as the Association
                  shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on  the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Coal India thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
                  its terms; or
            (ii)  the date twenty years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify Coal India of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      For Coal India:
            Coal India Ltd.
            Coal Bhawan
            10 Netaji Subhas Road
            Calcutta 700001
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   COAL INDIA              021 7180 (CIL-IN)
                   Calcutta, India
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Coal India, may be taken or executed by
the Chairman and Managing Director or such other person or persons
as the Chairman and Managing Director shall designate in writing,
and Coal India shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
Page  5
of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/  Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                        COAL INDIA LTD.
                         By /s/  N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January
1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
      (b)   The invitation to bid for each contract estimated
to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in
accordance with procedures applicable to large contracts under
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
Page  6
$4,000,000 equivalent and all civil works estimated to cost
less than $3,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $45,000,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.    Community Participation
      Goods and works required for Parts B and C of the
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement may be procured in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify
for bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, (ii) each contract for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more, and (iii) the first ten contracts for civil works each
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more but less
than $500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
Page  7
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts
for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment
of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Coal India shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, by September 30, 1998,
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and (c) review with the Association,
by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Association shall
request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said
report and the Association's views on the matter.
2.    Coal India shall: (a) establish a team of experts, whose
terms of reference and qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association, to review its mine emergency plans
for each Project Mine; (b) submit such mine emergency plans to such
team by December 31, 1996; and (c) modify any mine emergency plan,
if necessary, in line with recommendations made by the team.
3.    Coal India shall: (a) carry out, or cause to be carried out,
safety engineering studies for reclamation of overburden dumps
at each Project Mine; (b) by August 15, 1996 appoint a panel of
experts, whose terms of reference and qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Association, to review and approve the
recommendations of such studies with respect to each Project Mine;
and (c) implement the recommendations, as approved by the panel, in
a timely manner.
4.    Coal India shall by October 31, 1996, appoint a panel of
social and environmental experts, whose terms of reference
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association, to monitor the compliance with the Plans referred
to in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Page  8
5.    Coal India shall employ, or cause to be employed, by
August 31, 1996, a team of experienced consultants, whose terms
of reference, qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Association, to assist in the periodic reviews and
assessment of the implementation of the Environmental Action Plans,
the Resettlement Action Plans and the Indigenous Peoples' Develop-
ment Plans.
6.    Coal India shall by December 31, 1996: (a) post at each
Project Mine a full-time resettlement and rehabilitation officer,
whose terms of references and qualifications and experience shall
be satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the implementa-
tion of the Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans and Resettlement
Actions Plans for the Project Mines; and (b) provide appropriate
training satisfactory to the Association in participatory community
development to such officers.
7.    Coal India shall submit by June 30, 1997, an action program,
satisfactory to the Association, that will raise the incomes of
those persons identified by the study undertaken under Part C of
the Project above the poverty line established by the Borrower, and,
thereafter, implement such program in accordance with the provisions
thereof.
8.    Coal India shall by June 30, 1997, review with the Association,
and thereafter implement over an eighteen month period a program,
satisfactory to the Association, to strengthen its environmental
management capacity.
9.    Coal India shall invite by September 30, 1996, proposals from
certified NGOs or specialized local organizations, and by December
31, 1996, appoint NGOs or specialized local organizations for
assisting Coal India in the implementation of Resettlement Action
Plans and the Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans.
10.   Coal India shall, by December 31, 1997, furnish to the
Association for comment a report containing the lessons learned
from the implementation of the Rehabilitation Action Plans and
the Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans at each Project Mine.
11.   Coal India shall throughout the implementation of the
Project seek the approval from appropriate authorities to extend
environmental clearance for each Project Mine prior to the expiry
of the period for which such approval is granted so as to enable
it to continue with its mining operations.  Toward that end,
Coal India shall take all such actions as may be required or
necessary in order to obtain such approval and furnish to the
Association copies of such approval.
12.   Coal India shall, during the implementation of the Project,
provide to the Association quarterly reports on the progress of
the Project within 60 days after the end of each quarter beginning
with the quarter ending September 30, 1996.
