CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 799 NEP
Project Agreement
(Third Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
Dated August 22, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 799 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 22, 1978, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of Parts A through D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Nepal Telecommuni-
cations Corporation (hereinafter called NTC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to NTC the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided; and
(C) the Borrower intends to contract a loan or grant in
an amount equivalent to $3,000,000, to be made available to
NTC, to assist NTC in the financing of Parts E and F of the
Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
NTC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NTC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and NTC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($14,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later dato as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-3-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1988, and
ending March 15, 2028, each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of NTC is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NTC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to
enable NTC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
NTC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NTC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include, inter
alia, a term of twenty years including five years of grace and
interest at the rate of 9% per annum.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit,, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NTC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of NTC under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or NTC shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NTC will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement or that the Borrower or NTC
will be able to perform their respective obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Communications
Corporation Act, 1972 or Borrower's Order dated June 15, 1975
establishing NTC which will materially and adversely affect
the financial condition or operations of NTC; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or of NTC to with-
draw the proceeds of any grant or loan made
to the Borrower or to NTC for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿-5-
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or NTC to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to NTC
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement and of NTC under the Project Agree-
ment and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02 For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and NTC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Secti6n
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Amendment of Prior Agreements
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NTC;
(b) the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of
NTC;
(c) NTC's local tariffs and connection fees have been
increased to levels satisfactory to the Association with effect on
July 16, 1978;
(d) the Borrower has made arrangements, satisfactory to
the Association, to employ consultants or experts pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement; and


﻿-6-
(e) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to
the Association, to obtain and make available to NTC the funds
required by NTC to finance Parts E and F of the Project.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by NTC, and is legally binding upon NTC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and NTC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and NTC in accordance with it, terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 20, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under para-
graphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 5.05. (a) For the purpose of this Section, the
following terms have the following meanings:
(i) "1969 Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Telecommunications Project) between the
Borrower and the Association dated November 10,
1969; and
(ii) "1973 Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Second Telecommunications Project)
between the Borrower and the Association dated
June 20, 1973.
(b) Section 4.12 (a) (iii) and 4.12 (b) of the 1969 Agree-
ment, as amended by Section 8.01 of the 1973 Agreement, and
Section 4.06 of the 1973 Agreement are amended to read as Section
4.03 of the Project Agreement provided, however, that the obliga-
tions of NTC under the said Section of the Project Agreement shall


﻿-7-
be deemed to be obligations of the Kingdom of Nepal with regard to
NTC as successor to NTB in the said 1969 and 1973 Agreements.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Babar Mahal
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W. -
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Padma Bahadur Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Cre.%dit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Local exchange equip-         9,600,000         100% of for-
ment, distribution                             eign expendi-
network and subscriber                         tures
apparatus
(2) Subscriber radio                400,000         100% of for-
network                                        eign expendi-
tures
(3) Long distance fac-                              100% of for-
ilities:                                       eign expendi-
tures
(a) Microave UHF/VHF        1,050,000
radio systems, land
lines and multiplex
equipment
(b)  Subscriber trunk        1,750,000
dialling equipment
(4) Vehicles, training              950,000        100% of for-
equipment and mecha-                           eign expendi-
nical aids                                     tures
(5) Consultants' services            50,000        100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(6) Unallocated                     700,000
TOTAL        14,500,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the disbursement percentage set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit will be insufficient to
finance the said percentage of expenditures, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to
the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of
the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) of such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the said disbursement percentage in
order that further withdrawals may continue until all expenditures
under the Project shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associ-
ation under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which t7ould otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which forms part of NTC's five year (FY 1979-
1982) development program, consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Provision and installation of telephone exchange equipment
and cable networks to provide for about 20,600 subscriber lines,
including provision of about ten automatic exchanges and about
eleven manual exchanges and conversion of about six manual
exchanges to automatic operation.
Part B:
Provision and installation of microwave and UHF/VHF radio
systems and land lines to serve about fzurteen centers.
Part C:
Provision and installation of subscribers' radio facilities
to about 100 isolated locations.
Part D:
Provision and installation of Subscriber Trunk Dialing
equipment at about 19 automatic exchanges.
Part E:
Provision and installation of automatic telex exchange
facilities to serve about 400 subscribers.
Part r,:
Construction and equipment of a satellite earth station for
international services and provision of facilities to interface
with telephone and telex networks.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


