E592
.,,,  .'-,,,t,'-{,!.  _ ; p ,, ~Volume  2
S1             -~~X-
Environmental Assessment
(EA) Requirements for the
Eritrea Emergency
Reconstruction Project
October 30, 2001
Kenneth ML Green
sDFILE COPY
.~~~~~y-~- k4yf2



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BE            Bank of Eritrea
CBE           Commercial Bank of Eritrea
DOE           Department of Environment
EA            Environmental Assessment
ECDF          Eritrean Community Development Fund
EDIB          Eritrean Development and Investment Bank
EE            Environmental Evaluation
EECF          Environmental Evaluation Clearance Form
EEQ           Environmental Evaluation Questionnaire
EER           Environmental Evaluation Report
EIRCF         Environmental Management Plan
ERN           Eritrean Nakfa
ERP           Emergency' Reconstruction Program
ESA           Environmental Sensitive Area
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
GOE           Govemment of Eritrea
HCBE          Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea
IDPs          Intemally Displaced persons
IRC           Impact Review Committee
MIS           Management Information System
MLWE          Ministry.of Land, Water and Environment
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOE           Ministry of Eritrea
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOLG          Ministry of Local Government
MOPW          Ministry of Public Works
NEMPE         National Environmental Management Plan for
Eritrea
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
OAU           Organization of African Unity
PEIAR         Proforma   Environmental  Impact  Assessment
Report
PMU           Program Management Unit
PSF           Project Screening Form
RTCD          Roads Transport Construction Division
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNDP          United Nations Development Program



GLOSSARY
Government: the Government of the State of Eritrea.
Procedures: the Procedures for environmental assessment as laid out in the
document: National Environmental Assessment: Procedures and Guidelines
Prolect: any humar activity, or proposed activity, which involves a change in
land/water use anywhtere in the State of Eritrea or its territorial waters, which results
in:-establishment of a new land use on previously unused land/water. This definition
of a project can be extended to cover pans, policies and programmes ( i.e. proposed
activities) where appropriate.
Proiect Cycle: the system whereby a project advances from inception to operation in
a discrete series of stages.
Proiect Owner: the! individual(s) or organization(s), whether private, public or
Government institution, proposing to implement a project.
Stakeholder: any person or group likely to be affected by a proposed
project.
ImDact Review Cornmittee: an expert group, chaired by a representative of the
Department of Environment, Ministry of Land, Water and Environment, which will
review the reports produced by an Environmental Impact Assessment Study and
make a recommendation on environmental clearance.
Proiect Screenin_: the formal process that determines whether or not
Environmental Evaluation or Environmental Impact Assessment is necessary for a
proposed project.
Environment: the total surroundings of any particular location, including the air,
water, and soil, plus the biological and socio-cultural components of those
surroundings.
Environmental Evaluation: the process by which the potential impact of a proposed
project on the environment is determined using primarily Eritrean resources and
existing information. The results of the evaluation are contained in an Environmental
Evaluation Report.
Environmental Assessment: refers to the overall process of consideration of the
potential impact of a project on the surrounding environment, including its physical,
biological and socio-cultural components. The Environmental Assessment may
involve only Project Screening, and/or Environmental Evaluatior2 or Environmental
Impact Assessment.
Environmental Imooct Assessment: the process by which the potential impact of a
project on the environment is determined through an in-depth study involving project
scooping and using both existing information and the collection of new data to
produce an integrated Environmental Impact Assessment Report and Environmental
Management Plan.



Environmental Auidit: refers to an assessment of environmental performance of an
existing project, induistry or activity.
Environmentally Sensitive Area: any area in Eritrea or its territorial waters whose
natural and socio-cultural characteristics make them more vulnerable to significant
negative change generated by human development activities, or, conversely, those
areas whose natural characteristics make them likely to present a significantly
increased risk to normal project implementation and operation through natural
hazard.
Environmental Manaaement Plan: is a report, produced as part of a full
environmenta! impact assessment, which contains the proposed mitigation ,and
environmental management actions associated with a project.
ImDact: any effect, which a project may have on the surrounding environment. This
may be intended or unintended, and it may be either positive or negative.
ImDact Mitigation: any activity undertaken as part of project design and
implementation, which reduces or eliminates adverse (negative) impact and
enhances positive impact on the environment.
Activity: iany action taken or work performed within a project in order to transform
inputs into outputs.
Scooping Exercise: a stage in the overall environmental assessment process,
which defines the focus and the limits of the main Environmental Impact Assessment
study.
Sustainability: the ability to meet the socio-economic needs of the present
generations without compromising the abilities of future generations to meet their
own needs, including a healthy environment.
Public Record: any register of documents, or other form of information to which the
general public has legal access.



Table of Contents
Executive Summary ........................................... 
1. Background and Purpose ......1.....................................
2. The ERP Components ..........................................2
2.1 Agriculture Component .........................................2
2.2 Infrastructure Comiponent .........................................3
2.1.2 Roads .........................................3
2.2.2 Power ..........................................3
2.3 Private Sector Reccinstruction Component  .........................................3
2.4 Social Protection Component .........    ................................5
3. National Environmental M!anagement Framework ...........................................5
4. The World Bank Environnmental Assessment Policy ...........................................9
5. Key Environmental Impac's and Mitigation Measures ..........................................  10
5.1 Agriculture ......................................... 11
5.2 Infrastructure ......................................... 11
5.3 Private Sector Reconstruction .........................................  12
5.4 Social Protection ......................................... 13
6. EnvironmentalAssessment Requirementsfor the ERP ..........................................   14
6.1 Project Screening and Classification .........................................  14
6.2 PIU Environmental Assessment Process .........................................  14
6.3 Private Sector Reconstruction Component ..................... .................... 15
6.4 PIU EA Reporting and PMU Monitoring ................. ........................ 16
6.5 Bank Prior and Post-Review .........................................   17
6.6 Disclosure Requirements .........................................      17
Annexes
Annex 1               Project Environmental Evaluation Clearance Form DOE/EECF
Annex 2               Project Environmental Impact Review Clearance Form DOE/EIRCF
Annex 3               Proformia for Review of Adequacy of Content and Structure of An
Environmental Impact Assessment Report DOE/PEIAR
Annex 4               Profortna for Assessment of Adequacy of Content and Structure of an
Environmental Management Plan DOE/PEMPR
Annex 5               Pesticide Management Plan (Under Separate Cover)



EA Requirementsfor the .EP
Executive Summary
The ERP is designed to finance a set of complementary actions in support of the public
and private sectors to restart and sustain the economy. The two target regions are the
southem and southwestern region affected by the recent conflict with Ethiopia and the
northem zone experiencing extreme drought conditions. The agricultural component is
providing households with support to enable resumption of farming activities.
Infrastructure rehabilitation and reconstruction includes roads and bridges, power
facilities, schools and health facilities. Financial support and associated social seryices
are underway to assist households to rebuid their livelihoods. Debt forgiveness for
borrowers affected by the conflict, small loans through the Village Bank program for
households and small enterprises and larger loans through commercial banks for access
to foreign exchanges are all underway. A balance of payments component is also
providing liquidity and flexibility to the Government.
The Program was classified by the Bank as environmental category B because no
component was expected to have significant environmental impact. However, several
sub-component activities have, potential negative impacts and these may require
identification of measures to prevent, minimize, mitigate or compensate for adverse
impacts. The ERP PMU arid Bank agreed to undertake an environmental assessment of
the project shortly after effectiveness, and this report fulfills that requirement.
Each of the four major components are discussed identifying key sub-component
activities. These activities are being implemented by GOE Ministries and other entities
and each has a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The document provides guidelines to
the participating PlUs on reviewing and appraising environmental impact/aspects of their
projects. It also provides information regarding environmental assessment requwements
so that the projects can be implemented in an environmentally sound manner. The
.procedures follow environmental assessment procedures and guidelines of the GOE and
are also consistent with the Bank policies and goals applicable to environmental
assessment,.pesticides, natural habitats, forestry, involuntary resettlement and gender.
National environmental assiessment procedures and guidelines are reviewed in detail. The
NEAPG screens projects into three levels of environmental analysis depending upon the
potential impact of the project, Category A, B, and C.
* Category A projects: projects which are likely to have significant adverse
environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented; these impacts
may affect an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to physical works.
*  Category B projects: projects with less potential adverse.envirnnrjental impacts than
Category A projects and are generally site-specific.
* Category C projects: projects that are likely to have minimal or no adverse
environmental impacts.
The NEAPG document is prepared on the basis of World Bank EA principles and more
or less corresponds with procedures and guidelines of the Bank. These from the basis for



EA Requirements for the ERP
the development of numerous environmental assessment checklists that enable each PIU
to fully understand the ERP EA requirements.
The World Bank has several policies goveming project environmental assessment.
Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 on Environmental Assessment is the foundation that-
defines the Bank's enviironmental assessment requirements. A screening process for all
World Bank projects classHfies them into one of four environmental assessment
categodes,. A, B, C or F l. The policy set out in OP 4.01 applies to emergency recovery
projects such as the ERP.
Specific environmental assessment issues related to each sub-project type as defined
by a full EIA or Environmental Evaluation per the NEAPG is discussed. There are fowr
primary areas of environmental concern in conjunction with the agricultural activities:
water resources; vegetative cover and biodiversity; land degradation and erosion; and
pest and pesticide management.
Most road subprojects involve rural road rehabilitation rather than outright construction of
new roads. Road rehabilitation or maintenance subprojects do not usually result in major
impacts;. however, this does not mean they should be exempt from environmental
assessment procedures during subproject planning. In those instances where a new
access road is to be built, especially in an environmentally sensitive areas as defined in
the NEAPG, a full environmental impact assessment is generally in order.
Impacts during bridge and ford construction are usually associated with disturbance to
banks and streambeds, erosion of streambanks, and potential impacts from heavy
machinery use. Site restoration after construction, including revegetation of riverbanks,
may be required to minimize long-term impacts.
The replacement and rehabilitation of the main Hirgigo - Massawa plant is a
recompletion with no now predicted impacts from the previous project. The high voltage
transmission lines were previously constructed and there is no new concern regarding
ROW cutting and digging. Work on the Self-Contained Systems in the various towns is a
simple process of replacing older equipment. The standard EEQs will have to be
completed by the Ministry for this projects.
Small and medium siize manufacturing and industrial units usually have minimal
environmental impacts., Because of the wide range of possible manufacturing and
industrial activities which might fall under in this sub-component, it is important to use
the EEQs for this entire sector. Risk reduction takes the form of pollution prevention,
changes in manufacturing processing, regeneration of processing and treatment
chemicals, retaining tanks, reduction of waste material and recycling. When there is high
exposure to specHfic populations or groups of people, interventions are requires to ensure
human safety.
Several small construction subprojects in terms of schools and health units are part of
this component but it is rare that such small constructiornubprbjects will cause
significant impacts. However, they should be screened for potential environmental
considerations such as involuntary resettlement, contamination from waste materials
during construction, disturbances during construction, and environmental contamination



EA Requirements for the ERP
during operation of the facilities (caused, for example, by inadequate sanitation
facilities).
Most of the environmenial considerations with regard to water supply to three small
towns involve avoiding water contamination. Measures need to be taken to ensure
initially good water qualitt. Testing of the water supply should be performed regularly to
detect any contamination to the system, and this should be done in conjunction with
periodic chlorine treatment. There is no expected displacement in terms of siting the
water take-up. Potential noise and air pollution problems can arise during constniction of
the distribution network but these can be mitigated with simple construction supervision
practices.
The section on EA Requirements provides a detailed explanation of how the PlUs will
undertake EA for respective components and sub-components and report to the PMU. A
simplified step by step set of actions, fully based on NEAGP are provided and
discussed. These steps take the project sponsor or owner through: screening;
environmental assessment or evaluation; DOE reporting; and PMU monitoring.
Special attention is given to the Private Sector Reconstruction Component since the
Loan Fund is a rather substantive amount of money and is financing manufacturing and
industries that correspond to NEAPG category B projects. These projects require the
borrower to fulfill DOE requirements and details are provided to assist in these
processes.
The report finishes with Et discussion of the PIU quarterly reporting requirements and
how the PMU will track E A progress. Considerations for Bank review and supervision
are provided. Several actions will be undertaken by the ERP to satisfy Bank disclosure
requirements.



EA Requirements for the ERP
1. Background and Purpose
The recent conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia resulted in significant economic and
social impacts on the country and its people. Thousands were displaced from their-
communities, homelands and traditional agriculture and grazing lands. The war caused a
tremendous loss of livestock, food, seed stocks, and farming tools and apparatus. The
conflict caused dramatic declines in agriculture output in one of the countries most
important grain production reBgions. There was also widespread destruction of schools,
hospitals, health centers, infrastructure and towns, villages and individual homes.
Humanitarian assistance is being provided through numerous agencies and
organizations to assist the IDPs in their camps and slowly return to their homesteads.
Appeals for International support for emergency relief was ongoing throughout the
conflict. With the cessation of hostilities in May of 2000, concerted measures were
launched to start the process of reconstruction and rehabilitation of the areas damaged
over the course of the conflict.
The failure of the important short rains in the Sahel region of the country for two
consecutive years has also contributed to suffering from drought. Although widespread
famine and disease outbrealks have not occurred, there was increased concern that the
"fragile" situation would deteriorate. Drought relief interventions to cushion decreases in
agriculture output, economic loss and social hardships were also identified.
The World Bank commitment to GOE to assist in the process of long-term reconstruction
and economic recovery frorm the conflict and drought is the ERP. The ERP is designed
to finance a set of complementary actions in support of the public and private sectors to
restart and sustain the economy. The agricultural component is providing households
with support to enable resumption of farming activities. Infrastructure rehabilitation and
reconstruction includes roads and bridges, power facilities, schools and health facilities.
Financial support and associated social services are underway to assist households to
rebuild their livelihoods. Debt forgiveness for borrowers affected by the conflict, small
loans through the Village Bank program for households and small enterprises and larger
loans through commercial banks for access to foreign exchanges are all underway. A
balance of payments component is also providing liquidity and flexibility to the
Government.
The ERP is coordinated by a Project Management Unit (PMU) within the Ministry of
Finance. The PMU is responsible for overall program management, including ensuring
that financial, management and reporting procedures are acceptable to the Government,
the Bank and other donors. The actual implementation of the project components are
the responsibility of the following Ministries or Govemment agencies;
Responsible Project       Project Component
Implementing Units
Ministry of Agriculture,  Agriculture
Ministry of Energy,       Power
Ministry of Public 'orks,  Road and Bridges
Ministry of Local Govemment  ECDF, traditional safety nets, housing
Ministry of Finance      Balance of payments support
Bank of Eritrea          Private sector reconstruction
Page I of 17



Table 1.1 ERP Components and Line Agency
and Organization Implementation
j  ERP PMU       |
Agricltiural Component                                          Social Proeetlon
tinistry of Agriculture                                             t04
501
C  d   uction   M e chan ized  A Utlc tm  a l   Resources  a   o   tM    icro-C "e 1t     Hm oaing    |     |I  Atm   tbe ded
Crep Prokdue n      5 012            5013               ECFEt:F                     tl ntsby of t dtowmt   S-etv Mal
5011                                       _         SOt              SOS2              5043             SOt4
Educ tibn
Hea10W 
Access lo   |
Water SuVp IY
Ilfrstrrature                                          Prtv te Sector Reconstruction
Re2 heizile,  MaUaws Fogf B
Efc DwP   & snt  SW*
l   l                                   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Affected Enhrprhtes  Loan Furnd
Roas              502 or                                      5031              5033
|  taiito        MassawtXgo 
1             Wed~~~~~~~em Edret
|  tlance of Payments |



EA Requirements/for the ERP
The Program was classifiecl by the Bank as environmental category B because no
component was expected to have significant environmental impact. However, several
sub-component activities have potential negative impacts, which may require
identification of measures to prevent, minimize, mitigate or compensate for adverse
impacts. In a parallel manner specific sector project types may benefit from measures to
improve environmental performance. Consequently, the Bank and GOE agreed to
conduct an environmental assessment of the overall program shortly after credit
approval and effectiveness.
The EA terms of reference specified attention be directed to the use of pesticides, the
agriculture component, housing and settlement, and the private sector reconstructidn
component. Development ol a Pesticide Management Plan in accordance to GOE
National Environmental Assessment Procedures and Guidelines and the Bank Policy on
Pest Management was specified. Additional consideration of Bank Policies on Natural
Habitats and Forestry was called for.
This document is intended to provide guidelines to the participating Project
Implementation Units (PlUs) on reviewing and appraising environmental impact/aspects of
their projects and on providing information regarding environmental assessment
requirements so that the projects- can be implemented in an environmentally sound
manner.  The procedures in this report fully cover the environmental assessment
procedures and guidelines of the GOE. The mechanisms prescribed are also consistent
with the Bank policies applicable to environmental assessment, pesticides, natural habitats
and forestry.
The first section of this document provides a brief overview of the ERP components and
sub-components. The secondl section provides a summary of the GOE environmental
assessment management framework. The environmental assessment requirements of
the ERP are presented in the next section, building upon the World Bank EA
requirements and specific DOE procedures. Screening, environmental evaluation, EIA,
environmental clearance and monitoring procedures are defined for each component. A
Pesticide Management Plan is provided in a separate appendix.
2. The ERP Componenits
2.1 Agriculture Component
This component will finance! the purchase and distribution of seeds, fertilizers,
agricultural tools, tractors, livestock, storage facilities and veterinary support. These
inputs are targeted for the,estirnated 770,000 war and drought-affected households, the
majority of whom are farmers. Such support is designed to'as*t th'em to resume
agricultural and livestock production.
The Land Resources and Crop Production sub-component finances acquisition of seeds
for main cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables; local hand tools and spare
parts; fertilizers; draft animals; water pumps for small-scale irrigation; soil conservation
works; and afforestation. DANIDA in a parallel effort is sponsoring a small program of
adaptive research and a small credit fund.
Page 2 of 17



EA Requirementsfor the ERP
A Mechanized Agriculture -and Support Services sub-component will restore agricultural
output through several initiatives. Tractors and other farm machinery are being supplied
to compensate for the reduction in manual labor available for farm production in the war
affected areas and loss of draught animals due to the war. This sub-component will
finance the purchase of small tractors, seed planters, weeders, small harvesting
equipment, threshers, storage and repair facilities and workshops.
The Animal Resources sub-component will restore productive capacities through
restocking and feed production and introduce new income generating activities. Specific
activities include restockincl poultry, bee-keeping. Restocking of approximately 156,QOO
ruminants and required feed supplies for these animals, and vaccines and other public
veterinary supplies.
2.2 Infrastructure Component
2.2.1 Roads
The war damaged parts ol the national and regional road network. Five activities are
programmed with the Ministry of Public Works - Infrastructure Department.
* Three bridges will be repaired - Tesseney Gash, Dassir-Awgaro Gash and Kuluku
Gash - consisting of a EBailey bridge and abutments and repairs for each.
* There is also construction of new access roads and improvements of existing roads
leading to IDP settlements. These road schemes include shorter routes from 10 to 50
kms, and longer stretches from 50 to over 1 OOkm. The works will consist of grubbing,
grading, and partial filling with minor drainage structures and fords and Irish
crossings.
* Construction of small bridges and culverts and reshaping and widening of road
sections in drought and famine affected areas. This focuses on a North Easter Belt
totaling 285 km and a Northern Belt totaling 446 km.
* Procurement of Bailey bridges and vehicles and office equipment.
* Pre-construction investigations including design and construction supervision.
2.2.2 Power
The target of this activity is to rehabilitate existing power plants in several locations of
the country through the Ministry of Energy and Mines. Work is programmed for two
efforts:
* The Inter-Connected System which supplies Asmara, Massawa, Keren, Mendafera
and Dekenhare through 132 and 66 KV transmission lines and the main Hirgigo
Power Plant and related substations.
Damage to the Self. Contained Systems which are stand alone local generating
plants serving specific towns and surrounding areas. This *cludes the damaged
Barentu and Tesseny power generators and upgrading of faclities in Adi Quala, Adi
Keith and Senafre.
2.3 Private Sector Reconstruction Component
This component consists mainly consists of micro, small and medium scale enterprises
mostly engaged in trade with a smaller share involved in manufacturing and service
Page 3 of 17



EA Requirements for the ERP
industries. They are mainly characterized by a small sole ownership operations and to a
large extent based on family labor and capital. Furthermore, they are constrained by the
limited business support system that could help to improve the managerial, financial,
financial, technological and marketing capabilities. The principal objective of the PSR is
to revive the private sector of the economy through the provision, as appropriate, of relief
and loan funds to various enterprises and technical assistance to the banking institutions
in the country.
The support for Affected Enterprises sub-component of the emergen.cy funding program
is geared toward enterprises, which are predominantly micro and small. The support for
affected enterprises aims at bailing out banks from sudden depletion of their finarycial
resources or even bankruptcy as a result of the extensive draw related to the recent
conflict. According to the Bank of Eritrea, no importation of machinery and no major new
construction is envisaged to be undertaken under this component except the partial or
full debt forgiveness of the outstanding bank loans by the beneficiaries. The area of the
country which has been particularly affected by the recent conflict is mainly in the Zobas
of Debub, Southem Red Sea and Gash Barka.
The Loan Fund consists of medium and long-term loans for financing the fixed
investment and permanent working capital needs of existing enterprises in various
sectors of the economy (with the exception of tobacco, firearms and residential real
estate). A priority is to addoress their needs to import machinery and components. In
addition, new enterprises wrhich have the potential to eam or save hard currency are
eligible to apply for these locans.
The last subcomponent is technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of
the Bank of Eritrea and the three financing institutions in the country, namely, the
Commercial Bank of Eritrea, the Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea and the
Eritrean development and Investment Bank.
The number of enterprises so far submitted to the Bank by the three Financial
Intermediaries in connection with debt relief funding is 1564, as presented in Table 2.
Request for debt relief funding
Financial      Enterprises that  Enterprises that  Enterprises that  Total
Intermediary   sustained 100%  sustained partial sustained
loss           loss           minimal
disruption
CBE            903            108           257            1268
HCBE           51            65             121            237
EDIB           8             4              47             59
Total          962          j177            425            1564
On the other hand, the enterprises supported by the Loan Fund from these financial
intermediaries are relatively large and accordingly fall within several of the Industrial
Sector Project Types in the 14EAPG. As such these loans require proper screening and
environmental, evaluation as Category B projects. So far some 20 applications have
been submitted to the Bank.
There have been 20 requests submitted by the three Banks under the Loan Fund sub-
component for a total amount of about US dollars 10.8 million (see Table 3).
Page 4 of 17



EA Requirements for the ERP
Loan Fund requests by riumber and amount as of September 2001
Activities   Maekel  Debub  Gash      Total  US Dollars  Average
Barka                       Value
Tourism      1       _      -         1       259,512     259, 512
Construction  1         _             1     1,100, 000  1, 100, 000
Mining      -               1         1       255, 445    2
Industry    14       3              I 17    9,186,111    540,359
Total        16      3      1         20    10, 801, 068  .540,053
2.4 Social Protection Component
Many households and communities affected by the war and drought will receive social
support and economic services in several forms under four sub-components.
The Infrastructure sub-component, implemented by ECDF, will rehabilitate and develop
basic social and economic infrastructure in the following:
*  Rehabilitation off schools in the two war affected regions of Gash Barka and Debub
including construction ol: provisional classrooms, school supplies, training, and other
educational support services.
-  Rehabilitation of basic health facilities in the same regions.
*  Rehabilitation of smaller feeder roads near IDPs.
*  Construction of three small town water supply schemes in Adi Keith, Segheneti and
Dibarwa - towns with populations between 6,000 to 9,000. These projects will
include geophysical surveys, drilling and civil works for a improving or expanding
water source delivery and a distribution network.
The micro-credit sub-component will replenish ECDF to continue its village bank savings
and credit program. An expansion of Village Banks from the existing 86 to 16 more in
war affected regions of Gash Baraka and Debub and another 35 throughout the country
is expected to provide service to over 4,500 beneficiaries. These micro-credit loans
range between $US 100 to ';US 500.
A Housing sub-component will target providing funds and or materials to subsidize the
cost of rebuilding war damaged homes, through the Ministry of Local Government, for
approximately 20,000 poor households.
Finally, a.Safety Net sub-component will provide, at the community level, cash grant
transfers to war affected households repayable without interest and cash for work
programs. This sub-component will be coordinated through the Ministry of Local
Government.
3. National Environmental Management Framevlck
Eritrea's environment and natural habitat has undergone deterioration during the last
century due to population pressure on limited productive land, poor water and soil
management and persistent drought.  Limited knowledge of viable solutions or
alternatives to harmful practices, lack of financial resources and previous
macroeconomic policies have also contributed to the perpetuation of environmental
problems of the country.
Page 5 of 17



EA Requirements for the ERP
To address the overall challenge of environmental management in the country, the
Government adopted the Natiional Environmental Management Plan - Eritrea (NEMPE)
in 1995. More recently in 1997; environmental protection and sustainable use of natural
resources has been articulated in Article 8 of the Eritrean Constitution. The main
objective of these measures is the coordination of the protection and enhancement of
Eritrea's environment and natural resource base so that optimal social and economic
development can be achieved. These initiatives promote the interconnection between
population, resources and environment within the Eritrean context. The relationship
between NEMPE and other national initiatives such as development planning and
macro-economic policies are acknowledged and a number of guiding principles for the
integration of environmental objectives into the national planning process are provided.
In short, it is the vision of the country's environmental heritage and a strategy for
ensuring that development incorporates resource-use options that can be sustainable in
the future. It can thus be considered as the starting point for the development of action
programs to address specific environmental issues and to create a foundation for the
introduction of appropriate environmental management. Govemment recognized the
challenge of transforming these objectives and policies into a collection of
comprehensive institutional, regulatory, and practical actions.
The lead agency for undertaking this process is the Department of Environment, Ministry
of Land, Water and Environment. DOE has collaborated closely with a range of
Government agencies to develop a system of environmental impact assessment
procedures and guidelines suitable to Eritrea's context. The National Environmental
Assessment Procedures and Guidelines (NEAPG) were published in March 1999 after a
series of intensive consultation processes which involved numerous workshops
representing parties from the private sector and govemment ministries and agencies, at
the central and zonal level.
Within the framework of NEMPE, the NEAPG is meant to transform environmental policy
into development plans and projects that integrate sound environmental management.
The NEAPG screens projects into three levels of environmental analysis depending
upon the potential impact of the project, Category A, B, and C.
* Category A projects: projects which are likely to have significant adverse
environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented; these impacts
may affect an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to physical works.
* Category B projects: projects with less potential adverse environmental impacts than
Category A projects and are generally site-specific.
* Category C projects: projecl:s that are likely to have minimal or no adverse
environmental impacts.
The NEAPG document is prepared on the basis of World Bank EA principles and more
or less corresponds with procedures and guidelines of the Bank. This environmental
document consists of two sections and four appendices. The first is 'Procedures and
Guidelines for Environmental Clearance of Projects" and the second is 'Monitoring and
Evaluation of Projects". These sections provide an overview of project screening, project
screening responsibility, over-all environmental assessment reauirements, timing of
these procedures and clearance outcomes.
Page 6 of 17



EA Requirementsjor the LRP
The activities of the Procedures are to:
*  assess the significance of potential impacts which the implementation of the
project may have on the environment;
* reduce delays in project approval;
* Improve project design and performance; and
* promote economic deBvelopment without unnecessary decline in environmental
quality.
In the Manual, the responsibility for implementation, the users and the conditions for
using the procedures are specified. The EA requirements for clearing projects arnd
procedural steps for EA are provided.  Screening of projects the requirements by
category (A, B and C) and responsibilities for carrying-out the EA are specified.
For clearance Category A projects are required to be subjected to full EIA; while
Category B projects are required to carry-out EE; and those in Category C are not
subjected to EA.    The procedural steps in carrying-out full EIA, the reporting
requirements and EMP preparations; for reviewing EIA and EMP reports and project
clearance have been specified.
In section B, the requirement and procedures of monitoring and evaluation of projects
during implementation have been specified.
The NEAPG also contains environmental screening details in four appendices.
Appendix A (Project List for Environmental Screening); contains a list of typical
projects arranged by sector, for environmental screening. A set of criteria were used
to separate the projects into three categories (corresponding to Category A, B and C)
of environmental assessment. The key criteria are the likely size and scale of the
prQject in terms of area of potential impact and the potential for direct/indirect
hazardous effect on human health and/or ecosystem integrity. The sector and project
types include:
* planning sector projects (urban planning, transport, waste disposal);
* industrial sector projects (mining, processing and manufacturing industries,
electrical manufacturing, and management of hydrocarbons); and
* natural resources (clams, rivers, water resources, biodiversity conservation
forestry, agriculture, aerial spraying, fisheries).
Appendix B (Proposed Environmentally Sensitive Area); contains a list of
proposed environmentally sensitive areas (ESA) including land use and geology,
water, area of agricultural heritage potential, potential tourist areas, biodiversity,
fisheries, agricultural and forestry land.
Key Considerations Regarding ESA
* Any area with >25% tree cover, including nvernne and floodplain forest and woodland (as per Forest
Directive; 1994);
*  Any area within 1 OOm of river or stream with main channel bank-width of >5m (as per Forest
Directive; 1994);
*  Any area of land with slope of >35o (as per Forest Directive; 1994);
Page 7 of 17



EA Requirements for the ERP
* Areas which serve as an important natural resource base (for humans, wildlife or livestock),
especially during seasonEil or inter-annual drought stress periods;
* Forest, woodland or grassland with important soil conservation functions;
* Area agreed or proposed for permanent or temporary enclosure, or for gazettement for biodiversity
conservation;
* Area containing habitat of regionally or nationally-rare species (see endangered species list,
available from DoE or Moo\);
* Coastal shoreline near coral areas, seagrass or mangrove habitat which have been ranked as
especially important for conservation purposes;
* Any area of coastal land which is recognised as providing important habitat (e.g. breeding or
feeding areas) for any species of special conservation status;
* Any area of land designated as high or medium potential agricultural land.
Appendix C (Environmental Assessment Forms) including;
* Project environmental screening, evaluation clearance, impact review clearance
forms as well as Performa for review of adequacy of content and structure of EA
and EIA reports.
Appendix D (Checklist for Project Screening) covers project scooping and
contains a checklist of project components and environmental components
In a separate document that is distributed on CDROM, DOE has assembles a set of
questionnaires for use in environmental evaluation. These questionnaires raise technical
queries regarding the project under consideration, its type, location and site ( area
coverage, site plan), plant and machinery, production capacity, future expansion,
processing technique or technology, raw materials, chemicals used and storage, source
and annual consumption of water and energy, type and size of vehicles to be used,
disposal of solid waste, treatment and release of effluent, waste emission to air, water or
land, measures to be taken to reduce waste emission, etc. They also raise socio-
economic questions including mwith respect to number of total and permanent staff to be
ermployed at the site/factory, supply resources for food, features and distance of
residential are from the site, transport means, sanitation measures, etc. See Table 1 for
some of the type of projects c:overed in the NEAPG and the spectrum of questions
raised in their respective questionnaires.
Resettlement issues are addretssed in line with different development sectors and
incorporated into any project having such impacts. A Draft National Framework Policy on
Resettlement has recently been i;ssued (June 2001). The primary objectives of this policy
state that:
*   Projects should be screened for potential resettlement issues;
*   Resettlement should be treated as an integral part of project design from the
earliest inception of the project; and
Altemative to displacement and resettlement should be fullycognsidered before
decisions on displacement and resettlement are taken.
Highlights of the Eritrea Resettlement Plan Policy
Involuntary population displacement should be avoided or minimized whenever possible by
exploring other viable project designs' altematives.'People needs and environmental protection
.    must be given appropriate consideration in the decision making process.
* Where displacement is unavoidable, resettlement plans should be formulated with due care given
to people's needs and to environmental protection.
Page 8 of 17



EA Requirements for the ERP
* All involuntary resettlement should be conceived and executed as development programs and
should be provided sufficient investment resources and opportunities for resettlers to share on the
benefits that the project may bring.
* Participation of govemmert -institutions, communities (resettlers and host communities) in
planning and implementation should be included with the participation of women an important
consideration.
* The implementation of the resettlement plan should be effectively supervised.
Generally, the plan is required to focus on restoring the income earning capacity of
resettlers and improving their living conditions prior to resettlement. Displaced persons
will be:
*  Enabled to reconstruct a land based or employment-based productive existence;
*  Compensated for their lloses at replacement cost;
*  Assisted with the move and during the transition period at the relocation site; and
*  Supported in their effonts to improve their former living standards, income earning
capacity, and production levels, or at least to restore them.
Several ERP components specifically target women and provide significant benefits for
them and their families: This is evident in the micro-credit programs in agriculture which
have successfully provided chick stocks for women. Support services include feed
supply, veterinary care and extension so that after one year the household has an
altemative source of income as well as improved nutrition for the family. Supplemental
income for women is also available in the Cash for Work program under the Land
Resources and Crop Protection sub-component that are manual labor construction
activities building terraces, retaining embankments and reforestation, all having positive
impacts on soil and water conservation.
Under the Social Protection component, the micro-sub-component is targeted on village
bank savings and credit programs, many of which are directed towards small business
enterprises that are run by women. These include small stores, restaurants and food
services, trading enterprises and other informal income generating businesses.
4. The World Bank Environmental Assessment Policy
The Bank is involved in financing the ERP and one of the requirements for this is that
such Bank financed projects would be subject to Environmental Assessment (EA). The
objective of this requirement is to ensure that such projects are environmentally sound
and sustainable. EA evaluate the potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of
influence; examines projects alternatives; identifies ways of improving project selection,
sitting, planning, design and implementing by preventing, minimizing, mitigating or
compensating for adverse environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts, and
includes the process of mitigating and managing adverse environmeQ! impacts through
project implementation.
EA takes into account the natural environment, human health and safety; social issues
and global environmental matters and it considers natural and social aspects in an
integrated manner:  It considers also the country's policy, legislation, institutional
capabilities; country obligatiorn in respect to project activities under international
environmental agreement.
Page 9 of 17



EA Requirements for the ERP
The World Bank has several lpolicies governing environmental assessment of projects.
Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 on Environmental Assessment (revised in January 1999) is
the foundation that defines the Bank's environmental assessment requirements. A
screening process for all WVorld Bank projects classifies them into one of four
environmental assessment categories. Projects in category 'A' potentially cause
significant and possibly irremediable environmental impacts. Category "B" projects
cause lesser impacts, which ere often essentially remediable or mitigable. Category 'C"
projects can be expected to have little or no environmental impact. A recently new
category uFl," has been created for projects where financial intermediaries are
responsible for the preparation, appraisal, and implementation of subprojects.
Depending on the nature of the project a set of EA instruments are used to comply witi
the Bank's requirement. These may include EIA, regional or sectoral EA, environmental
and it, hazard or risk assessnment and environmental management plan (EMP) and EA
applies one or more of these.
The policy set out in OP 4.01 applies to emergency recovery projects such as the ERP.
However, when compliance with the requirements of this policy would prevent the
effective and timely achievement of the objectives of an emergency recovery project, the
Bank may exempt the project lrom such a requirement. However, the Bank requires that
(i) the degree to which the emergency was precipitated by inappropriate environmental
practices be determined; and (ii) any corrective measures be incorporated into either the
emergency project or a future Ilending operation.
The Bank's requirements include also that the adequacy of the institutional capacity
(legal and technical) of the borrower to carry-out EA related functions complies with the
policy specified in OP 4.01. For all Category A and B projects, the Bank requires that
the borrower carries-out public consultation which includes project affected groups and
local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) about the environmental aspects of the
project. Such views are required to be taken account. The borrower is required to
provide relevant material to the groups. During implementation, the borrower is required
to report on (i) compliance with measures agreed with the Bank including EMP; (ii) the
status of the mitigatory measures, and (iii) the findings of monitoring programs.
5. Key Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
The ERP is financing a tremendous variety of different subproject types as discussed
above posing a special chalilenge to those responsible for evaluation of potential
,impacts. What follows in this section is not intended to be a comprehensive discussion of
all the sectors components and types of subprojects, their impacts, and their mitigation
measures. Rather, it is an attiempt to highlight the most common impacts that can be
expected in the types of subprojects being implemented.  Specific environmental
assessment issues related to each sub-project type, as defined by a full EIA or
Environmental Evaluation per the NEAPG will be addressed in the next section on EA
requirements
Page 10 of 17



EA Requiirementsfor the ERP
6.1 Agriculture
There are four primary areas of environmental concern in conjunction with the
agricultural activities: water resources; vegetative cover and biodiversity; land
degradation and erosion; and pest and pesticide management. See Table 5.1 for a list of
impacts and mitigation measures for this component. Although many of the irrigation
activities will be small using portable pumps or wells, other larger schemes, especially
those involving agriculturall land expansion will have water extraction concerns. Issues
conceming pumnping rates to sustain specific crops, especially in the arid zones with low
water tables and restrictecl aquifers, are at the forefront. The threat to declining water
tables is also of concem in areas with significant wetlands. The hydrological potential of
specific agro-ecological zories requires examination. Recent studies by the DepartMent
of Water in the MLWE have addressed these issues on a broad scale in a water
resources and irrigation sector study.
The vegetative cover of much of the country today consists of little forest, much of that
being disturbed forest and brushland and shrubland. Riverine forest is under threat,
although there is a GOE proclamation protecting this sensitive ecosystem. GOE has
attempted to sustain and rehabilitate many areas in the country by restricting use of
'highland area and continuing in extensive reforestation programs. Establishment of
protected areas has been proceeding with the establishment of several national parks
and reservations.
Soil erosion and land degradation are evident throughout the extensive deforested
highlands. Expanding farming onto steep slopes is increasing with the need to have
access to more land for the rural poor. Such activities have resulted in decreased soil
fertility and loss of natural vegetation increasing soil erosion, sedimentation and siltation
to receiving waters. Consiclerable effort into terracing and bunding continues in these
micro-watersheds. Additional land degradation occurs even on the flat alluvial rich soils
with mechanized plowing if deep soil turnover exposes the land to potential runoff.
Minimum till, shallow plowing, fast growing vegetative cover and contouring based on
drainage will reduce such impacts.
Crop protection remains a challenge to the agriculture sector. Pest management is an
important requirement in all the agro-ecological zones and environmental and human-
health risks continue. Use of appropriate chemicals, application rates, proper storage,
protective gear and chronic exposure present major concerns. Proper pest management
including Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is being promoted by the MOA through
staff and farmer training in the Crop Protection Unit supported by several donors and
technical assistance organizations (USAID, DANIDA, FAO). Extensive discussions
regarding this subject is available in Appendix 5, Pesticide Management Plan.
5.2 Infrastructure
Roads
Most road subprojects involve rural road rehabilitation rather than outright construction of
new roads. Road rehabilitation or maintenance subprojects do not usually result in major
impacts; however, this does not mean they should be exempt from environmental
assessment procedures during subproject,.planning. This is clearly addressed by the
Page I 1 of 17



Table 5.1 Typical Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Agriculture and Small-Scale Irrigation Subprojects
Environmental and
Social Components                                          Impacts                                      Mitigation Measures
Plhysical Environment
Soils                           Increase of soil erosion -                                 Proper siting of irrigation subprojects; extension
* Soil waterlogging as a result of improper drainage         and training in crop selection and agricultural
* Increased salinization                                     technology; careful design and appropriate
selection of irrigation systems; adequate
drainage, soil protection measures
Water Resources                * Water quality degradation in ponds and reservoirs, siltation  Control of agrochemical use; proper design of
* Deoxygenation of receiving water                           canals; ;micro-watershed protection; soil
* Clogging of canals from weeds                              stabilization; monitoring of water quality;
:njece ,,ei waier flow because of heavy sedimentation       operation & maintenance plan; regional water
* Degradation of water systems receiving irrigation waters by  use plans
nutrients, agrochemicals and salts
* Depletion of aquifers from overexploitation
* Degradation of wetlands
* Disturbances to flow regimes
Biological Ehvlronment
Natural Habitats               * Disturbance of natural habitats, environmentally sensitive  Consideration of alternative sites; select
ecosyslems                                                  appropriate design and crops, avoid cutting
* Disturbance to protected areas                             riverine corriders
Fauna and Flora                * Disruption or destruction of wildlife                     Provision of corridors of habitat for movement of
* Algal blooms, proliferation of aquatic weeds               animals; expand protected areas
Social Environmenti
Human Health                   * Risk of waterbome diseases from artificial water flows   Education in proper sanitation and health practices;
(schistosomiasis, malaria, etc.)                            avoidance of stagnant waters; adequate treatment
* Disease transmission from human and animal waste deposits in  of irrigation waters; careful management of
irrigation waters used on agriculture                       pesticides; integrated pest management (IPM)
* Toxicity of pesticides                                     programs; protection of canals from livestock
Human Communities              * Involuntary resettlement loss of property                 Compensation; good consultation and participation
* Conflicts over water use rights                            with affected communities; consideration of
* Multiple land use demands on restricted water sources      cumulative impacts
* Political and social problems associated with upstream land use
and pollutant discharges



Table 5.2 Typical Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Rural and Access Road Subprojects
Environniental and
Social Components                                      Impacts                                          Mitigation Measures
Plysical Environment
Soils                      * Erosion of lands downslope from roadbed or borrow areas    Construction in dry season; protection of soil surfaces
* Landslides, slips, and slurnps -                            during construction; revegetation or physical
stabilization of erodible surfaces
Water Resources            * Creation of stagnant water pools                           Special attention to drainage; prevention of erosion;
* Increased sediments into streams                            consideration of alternative alignments; retention ponds;
* Clogging of drainage works                                  proper disposal of oil and other hazardous materials
* Decline in water quality
* Increase in runoff and flooding conditions
* Introduction of hazardous wastes
Air Quaiity                * Dust during construction                                   Dust control by water or other means
Acoustic Environment       * Noise disturbance                                          Restrict construction to certain hours
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats           *Disturbance of natural habitats                             Consideration of altemative alignments or sites
* Disturbance to protected areas                              (especially for new roads)
Fauni and Flora            * Disruption or destruction of wildlife                      Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction;
* Threats to rare and endangered species                      altemative alignments; various special measures for
* Increased road kills because of higher speeds and traffic volume  sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape-  * Marred landscapes                                          Restoration of vegetation; cleanup of construction sites
* Debris
Historical/Cultural Sites  * Degradation of sites                                       Alternative alignments and/or sites
* Disturbance to structures                                  Special measures to protect cultural heritage sites
Human Health               * Transport of hazardous substances                          Regulation of transport of materials
* Traffic accidents                                          Safety designs (signage)
* Pedestrian accidents
Human Communities          * Involuntary resettlement                                   Compensation as per OD 4.30
* Social change (new roads)
* Loss of buildings, property, or economic iivelihood



Table 5.3 Typical Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Bridge and River Ford Suibprojects
Environniental and
Social Components                                        Impacts                                         Mitigation Measures
Plhysical Environnment
Soils                        * Degradation of riverbanks through excavation and erosion     Protection during construction; erosion prevention
using plastic fencing; revegetation or physical
stabilization
Water Resources              * Creation of stagnaht water pools                            Construction during dry season; minimized erosion
* Increased sediments into streams                              of riverbanks; minimal disruption of natural
* Decline in water quality                                      streamflows
* Changes to hydrological regime (e.g., increased flooding)
* Introduction of hazardous wastes
Air Quaiity                  * Dust during construction                                     Use of water to minimize dust generation
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats             e Disturbance of natural habitats (especially aquatic)         Careful siting (especially new structures)
Fauna and Flora              * Loss or degradation of vegetation (including aquatic vegetation)  Faunal inventories; no construction during
* Disruption or destruction of wildlife (especially fish)       breeding season
* Disturbance to spawning aieas of fish (stream bottoms)
- Threats to rare and endangered species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and LandscapeL      Marred landscapes                                            Cleanup of construction sites
* Debris
Human Health                 * Traffic accidents                                            Adequate regulation and signposting
* Pedestrian accidents
Human Communities            * Involuntary resettlement                                    Coripensation as per OD 4.30
* Loss of buildings, property, or economic livelihood



Table 5.4 Typical Impacts and Mitigation Measures in Small to Medium Manufacturing and Industry
Environmental and
Social Contponents                                        Impacts                                       Mitigation Measures
Plhysical Environment
Air emissions                                                                             Substitution of less volatile agents (e.g. aqueous
' Particulates                                              based solvents for organic solvents); removal of
* Sulfur dioxide                                           volatile pollutants from air emissions priot to
* Nitrogen oxides                                          release; adequate dilution of final waste products;
* Lead                                                     exhaust hoods and ventilation systems should
* Vapors which arise during the finishing process          capture these losses - VOCs and heavy metals can
* Vapors released directly to the atmosphere               be recovered for re-use from exhaust streams by
- Air emissions from the project being directed towards nearby  carbon filtration; acid vapors can be scrubbed with
residential, institutional or educational locations.      water prior to venting
Water discharge                                                                           Minimize the "escape" of minor pollutants, such as
* Heavy metals and other toxics can contaminate normal sewage  dirt, oil, chemicals, other organic material, etc.
treatment works and/or water bodies receiving plant discharge  from the project site by installing retention tanks
Leachate into surface water or groundwater               screens, etc.; collect solids and divert to authorized
* Temperature increase                                     collection systems or to landfill; waste oil and
* TSS, BOD, pH, COD                                         other organic chemicals should be collected in
* Oil and grease                                           appropriate containers and stored safely until they
can be disposed properly; regeneration of the
processing and treatment baths; further treatment
of dilute liquid wastes
Hazardous materials                                                                        Use non-hazardous materials instead of hazardous;
* Toxic substances                                          proper disposal of these materials; store and label
* Health impacts                                           in appropriate containers; proper fire prevention
and secondary containment; treatment of dilute
effluent wastes to recover materials - such as ion-
exchange columns, reverse osmosis, ultrafiltration
and electrodialysis; metal-bearing sludge can be
filtered, pressed and dried - the dry sludge may
contain sufficient metals to make it usable to metal
recovery contractors.
Solid waste                                                                               Reduction of solid waste volume should be
* Toxic substances                                         encouraged through avoidance of unnecessary
* Health impacts                                            packaging, re-use of materials, recycling of
materials, combustion where appropriate, before
final disposal. Hazardous wastes should be kept
separate from other wastes and disposed of only to
secure landfills/incinerators



Social Environment
Human Health                   * Worker safety                                             Within the workplace, reduce worker exposure to
v Toxic substances                                          continuous noise levels; establish safety practices;
* Health impacts                                            protective equipment
Human Communities              e Excessive ambient noise ievels                            If the project is within "hearing distance" of
E Toxic substances                                         residential areas or other workplaces, then noise
E Health impacts                                            emissions from the project needs to be controlled



Table 5.5 Typical Impacts and Mi gation Measures of Water Supply Subprojects
Environmental and
Social Components                                           Inrpacts                                      Mitigation Measures
Plhysical Environment
Soils                           * Degradation of soil cover                                  Protection during construction; revegetation or
physical stabilization
Water Resources                 * Contamination of water resources                           Adequate protection from livestock; minimal
* Overexploitation of aquifers                                distance from human settlements and agricultural
* Inadequate wastewater disposal                              areas; regional water use planning; proper
* Introduction of hazardous wastes                            drainage near pumping stations; community
* Creation of stagnant water pools                            participation; links to sanitation subprojects
COuSt:           i`rvi     rr.uea.at  - Nuise uIshui'baiKx fruni pump siation if near a nome  Siting studies
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats                * Disturbance of natural habitats                            Siting studies
Fauna and Flora                 * Loss or degradation of vegetation                          Protection of vegetation during construction
* Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape        * Marred landscapes                                          Cleanup of construction sites
* Debris
Human Health                   ' Waterborne diseases                                        Correct design and adequate training; testing
* Chemical imbalances in delivery system                       procedures
Human Communities               * Involuntary resettlement                                  Compensation as per OD 4.30
* Loss of buildings or property



LA Requiremenis jor Ihe Lh?
NEAPG in its screening process and evaluation procedures. Table 5.2 summarizes the
most typical impacts and their mitigation measures.
Impacts from road rehabilitation may occur on-site during construction (erosion along
road bed) or at nearby or remote areas such as quarries where construction material is
being obtained or transporte!d. Impacts occurring during operation (for example, noise
nuisance and safety hazards) should be considered if road upgrading significantly
changes traffic pattems adjacent to population concentrations of villages and towns.
In those instances where a new access road is to be built, especially in an
environmentally sensitive areas as defined in the NEAPG, a full environmental impact
assessment is generally in order. In addition, the MOPW, with the assistance of toe
Bank, is engaged in an overall upgrading of its EA capabilities with the addition of a full
time environmental specialist in the Infrastructure Division. A technical capacity building
effort is underway that will also develop more appropriate EA screening, assessment
and mitigation provisions for the entire sector.
Bridges and River Fords
Typical small-scale bridge construction subprojects in the ERP include permanent
structures with a pier support bridge structure or a shore-to-shore suspension span.
Construction materials include poured reinforced concrete, steel support beams, wood,
or combinations of these materials. Table 5.3 shows some typical impacts of these
subprojects.
Impacts during construction are usually associated with disturbance to banks and
streambeds. Erosion of streambanks may adversely affect aquatic habitats and water
quality locally and downstream. The use of heavy construction equipment in or near
water bodies may result in hazardous substance contamination from fuel, lubricants, and
greases. Site restoration after construction, including revegetation of riverbanks, may be
required to minimize long-term impacts.
Power
The replacement and rehabilitation of the main Hirgigo - Massawa plant is a
recompletion of a previously installed plant. Consequently, there are no new predicted
impacts form the previous project. The high voltage transmission lines were previously
constructed. There is no nevw concern regarding ROW cutting, digging etc.
Work on the Self-Contained Systems in the various towns is a simple process of
replacing older equipment. T he standard EEQs will have to be completed by the Ministry
for this projects. The are not any expected impacts if the older material and parts are
disposed of'properly.
5.3 Private Sector Reconsi:ruction
Following is a brief description of the environmental risk considerations and the respective
recommendations for environmental action or mitigation measures for the Loan Fund sub-
component (see Table 5.4). Smaller loans and lending in an enterprise or industry in
which the environmental impacts are expected to be negligible. This category does not
Page 12 of 17



EA Requwrements for the ERP
normally require further envirc,nmental analysis. However, there may be environmental
measures which may enhance the project through minor (low-cost) modifications in the
design without reducing efficiency.
Small and medium size manufacturing and industrial units usually have minimal
environmental impacts. Because of the wide range of possible manufacturing and
industrial activities which might fall under in this sub-component, it is important to use
the EEQs for this entire sector. Although smaller in scale, the types of impacts arising
from small-scale projects are similar to those arising from larger industrial units and
industrial estates.
Environmental impacts include air emissions, water discharge effluents, hazardous
chemicals and wastes and solid wastes. A diverse collection of chemical outputs can
cause serious environmental and human health risks. Occupational health and safety is
also of concem and requires evaluation.
Risk reduction takes the form of pollution prevention, changes in manufacturing
processing, regeneration of processing and treatment chemicals, retaining tanks,
reduction of waste material and recycling. When there is high exposure to specific
populations or groups of people, interventions are requires to ensure human safety.
5.4 Social Protection
Minor Construction Subprojects for Housing and Health Units
Several small construction subprojects in terms of schools and health units are part of
this component. It is rare that such small construction subprojects will cause significant
impacts. However, they should be screened for potential environmental considerations
such as involuntary resettlement, contamination from waste materials during
c.onstruction, disturbances during construction (dust, noise, etc.), and environmental
contamination during operation of the facilities (caused, for example, by inadequate
sanitation facilities). Because of the scarcity of tress throughout much of the country,
roof beam construction, traditionally relying of large Eucalyptus trunks, can be
substituted for with light, inexpensive and locally available steal beams. Potential
problems associated with the handling and disposal of medical waste must be
addressed during the design of the health post and monitored during operation of the
facility.
Water Supply to Small Towns
The water supply subprojects supported by ERP will be underground pump and
distribution systems. Table 5.5 summarizes the most frequently encountered
environmental impacts of these water supply subprojects. Most of the environmental
considerations with regard to water supply subprojects involve avoiding water
contamination. Measures need to be taken to ensure initially goodowater quality. During
operation of the system, measures need to be taken to prevent contamination from
agricultural activities, grazing animals, and human settlements. Testing of the water
supply should be performed r,sgularly to detect any contamination to the system, and this
should be done in conjunction with periodic chlorine treatment. Hence, proper training of
technicians is critical to ensure that adequate maintenance occurs. There is no expected
displacement in terms of sitirig the water take-up. Noise and air pollution problems can
Page 13 of 17



EA Requirementsfor the ERP
arise during construction of the distribution network but these can be mitigated with
simple construction supervision practices.
Rural Roads
The EA requirements for this sub-component is the same as the road component under
Infrastructure. In this case, the ECDF is responsible for screening and environmental
evaluation. ECDF. already uses the DOE EEQ and coordinates with MOPW. Contractors
have been fully aware of the EA requirements as part of their bid documentation.
Micro-credit
The amount of financing under this sub-component is very small and is dispersed
through many village level intermediaries. There is no reason to believe that any of small
enterprises and activities to households will have any environmental impacts. Therefore,
these entire collection of activities is considered a category C.
6. Environmental Assessment Requirements for the ERP
As discussed above, the cumrnt DOE procedures and guidelines satisfy World Bank
policy requirements for EA and other associated policy objectives (e.g., Natural Habitats,
Pesticides, and Forestry). Consequently, this section provides a detailed explanation of
how the PlUs will undertake EA for respective components and sub-components and
report to the PMU. The following discussion provides a simplified step by step set of
actions, fully based on NEAGP.. These steps take the project sponsor or owner through:
screening; environmental assessment or evaluation; . DOE reporting; and PMU
monitoring.
6.1 Project Screening and Classification
The first step is for the project sponsor or owner is to classify the project. The process
for determining project category type is presented in Table 6.1 The criteria for identifying
in what environmental category a project is assigned is defined. Specific environmental
assessment requirements, timin!g of these events, and responsible parties are identified.
Finally, the possible environmental clearance outcomes are summarized. Table 6.2
indicates, based on the general subproject types and potential environmental impacts,
which PIU activities fall under environmental screening requirements. Specific project
components and type are listed in more detail in Table 6.3. The NEAPG was used to
also generate Table 6.4, which assists the PIU understand where a project type will fall
in terms of environmental assiessment and identifies specific EEQs by name and
reference code. These evalutation questionnaires are available!on CIOMfrom DOE as
well as other Ministries. Each PIU needs to use these checklists td assist in identifying
what is the expected EA requirements based on actual in the field activities. DOE
Project Screening Form - PSF- is required to be filled out (see appendix).
6.2 PIU Environmental Assessrnent Process
Table 6.5 illustrates the steps discussed in this section. It is critical to emphasize that
each PIU is responsible for ensuring that the NEAPG process is complied with. The ERP
Page 14 of 17



Table 6.1 Procedures for ProJect Screening and Classification
Project Screening        Category A             Category B            Category C
Procedures
Determinants       Larger projects with    Large to medium size  Projects that do not
for Classifying    potentially significant  projects that could lead  involve major changes to
Projects           negative environmental  to significant negative  the physical environment
impact< which are not  environmental impacts  and have minimal or no
easily predicted       that can be usually   negative environmental
reduced through use of  impacts
existing design
standards and mitigation  The project requires little
measures              or no physical
intervention in the
environment
Projects of similar type
that have been
implemented under
similar conditions within
the past 5 years with no
known negative
environmental impacts
Environmental      Full Environmental Impact Completion of an EEO  No environmental
Assessment         Assessnnent                                   assessment beyond
Requirements                              Subject to Environmental screening and can be
Evaluation before     implemented without any
__________________   _ ___________________ _  environmental clearance  delay
Timing of          EIA to b? conducted in  Should take place as
Environmental      parallel with project  soon as possible after
Assessment         design and feasibility  screening
Or Evaluation
Use existing information
and expertise -
additional data required
only when significant
potential negative impact
predicted
Responsibility     Project Owner or sponsor  Project owner or sponsor
For                with coordination by DOE  with relevant
Environmental                             Govemment agency (at
Assessment         Consulta:ion with any  the Central or Zonal
Or Evaluation      potential affected     level)
stakeholclers
Environmental      EIA review by DOE to
Clearance          determine adequacy      Unconditional Clearance
Conditional Clearance
DOE forwards EIA to    Environmental
stakeholders           Objections
No Environmental
Stakeholaler comments  Clearance
DOE forwards EIA to IRC
Unconditional Clearance
Conditional Clearance
Postponed Clearance
No Environmental
Clearance              .



Table 6,2 ERP Components and Environmental
Screening Requirements*
I.ERP PMU
Allklcultoral Component                              Social Prolecuion
mtinistry of Aglriculture
Land Reaowces  | | MechsedAg utre  |mn    B    tu _ tr tu   Mifo-Credit                      bed
CmOD ProdrJetl                                              ECOF     Misby of Lou GImmmf    e
I
Educatbn
HeaMth
Water Sut t
Ilitreotmelt'                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prb tto Soctor Reconstruction
-n     vsLo. ItEwW
i   loade i      Power
|           LRehabifio |  Massawa i4rglo |
I   Bitdes     rBiarentu. Tassneny|
| Matw Access  Ad-ua Ad Keioth
xlnac tic or Paymenqe
*flagged boxes represent those activities requiring Environmental Evaluation



Tabile 63 ERP Screening Checklist
Environmental
Assessment Approach'
PROJECT COMPONENT AND 1IYPE                                    None    EE      EIA
AGRICULTURE
Land Resources & Crop Production
New agricultural projects involving clearance of natural
vegetation cover
Rehabilitating irrigation systems                        V
Replacing irrigatiori pumps                                      '
New or expanding irrigation
Construction of storage dams                                     %/
Diversion of river flows
Ground water drilling                                            '
Change in pesticide use
Aerial spraying
Mechanized Agriculture
Plowing existing fields                                  '
New agricultural projects involving clearance of natural         '
vegetation cover
New or expanding irrigation                                      '
Animal Resources
Small scale breeding & production                        '
Intensive livestock production                                   '
When water access and/or storage planned refer to storage
darns, diversion of river flows & ground water drilling above
INFRASTRUCTURE
Roads
Road Rehabilitation < 5km                               'v
Road Rehabilitation > 5kn                                        /
Bridges < lOm                                            /
Bridges> lOnm                                                   V'
New Access Roads                                                         '
Power
Electricity generation stations < IOMW capacity                  '
Electricity generation stations > IOMW capacity                          '
High voltage electrical transmission lines                       v
Electrical substations                                           /
SOCIAL PROTECTION
Construction of small-scale education facilities        '/
Construction of small-scale health facilities            /
All tertiary roads including feeder & rural
Water Supply to small towns                                             %v
Micro Credit                                             V
Housing                                                  V
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Small loans and micro credit                             '
Larger loans for enterprise, manufacturing and industry          V'
'EE stands for Environmenital Evaluation and EIA is Environmental Impact Assessment and are defined in
the National Environmental Assessment Procedures and Guidelines



Table 6A lRP Project Screening Requirements'
Project        Eritrea Natfonal Environniental Assessment Requirements                           DOE EA        Responsible
Component      DOE EA Procedures & Guidelines induding Appendix A                                EEQs          Agency or
.  .         .                                                       _             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oroanizationo
Category A                 Category B                             | Category C      _
AGRICULTURE                              _                                                       _
Land                                       New agricultural projects involving                   3.4 a         Ministry of
Resources &                                clearance of natural vegetation cover                               Agriculture
Crop
Production                                 Irrigation                                            3.4 b
Storage dams                                          3.1 a
Diversion of river flows                              3.1 c
Ground water drilling                                 3.1 e
Change in pesticide use                               3.4 c
Aerial spraying                                       3.5 a
Mechanized                                 New agriculEural projects involving                   3.4 a         Ministry of
Agriculture                                clearance of natural vecetation cover                               Agriculture
Irrigation                                           3.4 b
Animal                                     Intensive livestock production                        3.4 a         Ministry of
Resources                                                                                                      Agriculture
When water access and/or storage planned
refer to storage dams, diversion of river
flows & ground water drilline above                         _
INFRASTRUCTURE
Roads
Road                                       All tertiary roads including feeder & rural"          1.2 b         Ministry of
Rehabilitation                         _                                                        _              Public Works
Bridges                                    Bridges over lOm in length              Bridges       1.2 d         Ministry of
_________________ __  _                   .under lOm                    Public Works
New Access     All primary & secondary     All tertiary roads including feeder & rural           1.2 b         Ministry of
Roads          roads'                                                                                          Public Works
Technical       All pnmary & secondary                                                                         Ministry of
Services       roads                                          ..                                               Public Works
Power
Massawa        Elecuticity generation      High voltage electrical transmission lines            2.3 b         Ministry of
Hirgigo Power  stations> IOMW capacity                                                                         Energy
Rehabilitation
Berentu,       Electncity generation       Electrical substations                                2.3 c         Ministry of
Tesseney,       stations > I OMW capacity                                                                      Energy
Western
Eritrea
generator
replacement
Adi-Quala,                                 Electrical substations                                2.3 c         Ministry of
Adi Keith,                                                                                                     Energy
Senafe
electrical
power system
repairs                    _                                 ._._ .    _. _
SOCIAL PROTECTION                        _
Education                                                                          Construction                ECDF
I                             j ~~~~~~~~~~~of small-
scale
education
facilities



Health                                                                        Construction              ECDF
of small-
scale health
__________________________________________  facilities
Access Roads                            All tertiary roads including feeder & rural                     Ministry of
___________________________________   ___________                Public W orks
Water Supply                            Ground water drilling                              3.1 e        ECDF
Micro Credit                                                                               Category B   ECDF
Not
available
Housing                                                                                    Category B   Ministry of
Not          Local Housing
._____________  _________________________   ______________ ___________________________   _____  av ailab le
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Support for                                                                   No guidance               CBE,HCBE.
Affected                                                                      availab!e                 EDIB
Enterprises
Loan Fund      Mitneral processing,     Recycling metal, non-metal waste & scrape          2.2 a        tBE, HCBE,
reduction of ores & minerals  Metal fabrication & finishing                  2.2 b        EDIB
Foundries producing <10 Tlday                      2.2 c
Smelting & refining of orus  Brick & earthernware < I T/day                  2.2 d
Foundries producing >     Cement works & lime processing                     2.2 e
lOT/day                  Tanneries                                          2.2 j
Abattoirs & meat-processing plants                 2.2 k
Brick & earthenware       Brewing & malting                                  2.2 m
manufacture with          Bulk grain                                         2.2 n
production of >IT/day     Fish processing                                    2.2 o
Pulp & paper mills<5T/day                          2.2 p
Cement works & processing  Food processing                                   2.2 q
with production of >      Assembly of motorized vehicles                     2.2 r
IOT/day                   Aircraft or railway repair or construction        2.2 s
Rubber manufacturing & processing                  2.2 t
Glass works
Fertilizer plants         Fiberglass, sheet-metal, polyplastic tanks &       2.2 u
Explosive plants         reservoir manufacturing
Oil refineries &          Plastic manufacture                                2.2 v
petrochemnical
Mechanical workshops employing < 50                2.2 w
Chemical plants           persons in industrial zone or < 10 persons
Pulp & paper mills >5T/day  outside industrial zone
Paint processing & paintshops                      2.2 x
Textile plants                                     2.2 y
Printing                                           2.2 z
Battery production & recycling                     2.2 aa
Prepared by K. Green, Environmental Specialist and Consultant to ERP, September 2001
i This checklist contains those projects that are most likely to be included as part of the ERP portfolio and is a selected set from the
Department of Environment EA Procedures, Guidelines and Environmental Evaluation Questionnaires
ii All Category A projeCts require a full EIA as required in the EA Procedures & Guidelines, Chapter5. Category B follow
Environmental Evaluation Questionnaires that are separate guidance questions available from DOE on a CDRom.
'i Eritrean Community Development Fund (ECDF), Commercial Bank of Eritrea (CBE), Housing & Commerce Bank of Eritrea
(HCBE), Eritrea Development & Ihvestment Bank (EDIB)
J Tertiary roads are feeder and rural rcads connecting villages or sub-zonal capitals-with primary and secondary roads, or with zonal
capitals. Also includes roads connectingt villages between them with length estimated at
v Primary roads handle a significant traffic load, and many have international role and have carriage way of 7m with shoulders of
1.5m. Secondary roads connect regions or connect important economical and political centers, some bituminous and others graveled



Table 6.5 Einvironmental Assessment Process for the ERP
PIU Pfoiect Formulatlon
Objective: Ensure that environmental issues are considered at the earliest stage of the subproject
Actions:   * Provide technical assistance directly to subproject formulators when necessary, or direct them to
qualified specialist who can help in subproject formulation
* Ensure impacts and mitigation measures are considered by project sponsor
4 JP
Enilronmental Assessment
Objective: Ensure that environmental impacts have been analyzed and appropriate mitigation measures
designed
Actions:   * Screen proposals to classify projects according to NEAPG
DOE Prtject Screening FormnPSF
 Carry out either an EIA for Category A projects or an Enviromnental Evaluation for Category B
* Submit appropriate forms and information to Department of Environment
Category A - EIA and EMP
Category B - EEQ
DOE AoDroval
Objective: Review by DOE of EIA or EEQ
Actions:   * Once project has been screened and any necessary environmental impact assessment or
evaluation has been completed, project can be approved
* In some cases approval may be denied if the environmental assessment is incomplete or
inadequate
Category A EHA
* Prepare and submit EIA and EMP to DOE
* DOE and relevant Government agency complete adequacy review
Review of Adequacy of Content and Structure of an Environmental Assessment Report/PEAR
Assessment of Adequacy of Content and Structure of an Environmental Management Plan/PEMPR
* Review of EIA and EMP by stakeholders of concern and Impact Review CommitteeIRC
 Formal approval recorded in Project Environmental Impact Review Clearance Form /EIRCF sent to project sponsor
Category B Environmental Evaluatiod,
* Complete Form DOE/EECF to record the evaluation decision
* Submit Form to DOE or zonal branch along with copies of EE Repon (EEQ responses)
* Recommended environmental clearance is automatic unless written disagreement is received from DOE or its zonal
branch office within 10 working days of receipt of Form DOEIEECF



EA Requirements for the ERP
believes that each PILl, with its own staff, can undertake the EA process. The PIU is first
required to ensure thaet the environmental issues are considered at the earliest stage of
subproject identification and formulation. Reference to the generic discussions in
previous sections, checklists if impacts and mitigation measures and specific
environmental evaluation questionnaires will prove sufficient for this to be accomplished.
Remember, that the screening and categorization determine whether an EIA or EEQ is
the appropriate proceclure to follow. It is emphasized that the requirement to undertake
EMAs, category A, will be the exception in most ERP components.
When the appropriate! procedures are finished, the PIU completes the appropriate
Environmental Evaluation 'Questionnaire. The answers are submitted to D*OE for
approval. In the rare situation when a full EIA is required, the PIU must refer to the
NEAPG document for dietailed requirements on hoe to scope and conduct the EIA. The
EIA and EMP must be submitted to DOE.
Category A Apporoval Process
In general, the Category EIA review process will take some time. Both DOE and the
relevant Government agency complete an adequacy review. The results are formalized
in the Review of Adequacy of -Content and Structure of an Environmental
Assessment Report/'EIAR and the Assessment of Adequacy of Content and
Structure of an Environmental Management Plan/PEMPR, (see appendix).
The EIA and EMP are also reviewed by stakeholders of concem and an Impact Review
Committee (IRC). Once these measures are satisfied, formal approval is recorded in the
Project Environmental Impact Review Clearance Form /EIRCF (see appendix).
Category B Approval Process
The Environmental Impact Review Clearance Form/EECF is completed to record the
PIU evaluation decision. This form is submitted to the DOE or zonal branch along with
copies of the EE Report. Recommended environmental clearance is automatic unless
written disagreement is received from DOE or its zonal branch office within 10 working
days of receipt of Fom, DOE/EECF. Since most of the ERP projects that require
environmental evaluation are predicted to be Category B, Table 6.6 should be used as a
more detailed checklist to help the PIU identify which sector and project type needs to be
consulted. This table also shows the entire list of sectors and projects, with the key
relevant ERP EEQs highlighted.
6.3 Private Sector Reconstruction Component
The small loans and micro-credit of the Affected Enterpvres subcomponent are
generally considered as Category C projects and consequently have no EA
requirements. However, before approving a Loan under the Loan Fund subcomponent,
the Fl is expected to verify, either through their own staff, outside experts, or DOE, that
the EA approach is appropriate and all obligations of NEAPG are fulfilled.
For investment projects which involve low level of regular emissions or accidental
emissions, an EEQ would normally suffice. Such limited environmental assessment would
be recommended in cases which may simply require specifying well-defined mitigation
Page 15 of 1 7



Table 6.6 Caltegory B Project Screening -
Environmental Evaluation Process
1. Refer to National Environmental Assessment Procedures and Guidelines - Appendix A
" The project is screened, by identifying proper project sector and type, by relevant Govemment
Agency based on the project sector and type
* Three major sectors - Planning, Industrial and Natural Resource with thirteen project types
2. ProJect Owner and Relevan7t Govemment Agency Complete Appropriate
Environmental Evaluation OQuestionnaire (EEO) in a Report Form
Planning Sector Projects             Natural Resources Sector
*  Urban Planning                    Projects
  Transportation                    a  Dams, Rivers & Water Resources
Tertiary roads                       Small dams
Bridges larger than 10 meters        River flow or flood control
* Waste Disposal                           Drilling for ground water
* Biodiversity Conservation
Industrial Sector Projects           a  Forestry
*  Mining                                  Timber harvesting, new
*  Processing & Manufacturing              plantations & afforestation
Industries                        * Agriculture
Small-scale Industrial               Clearance of natural vegetation
 Electrical Infrastructure                & intensive livestock
* Hydrocarbons                             production
Shift from rain-fed to irrigation
Change in pesticide use
* Aerial Spraying
* Fishery
* the key relevant ERP EEQs are highlighted
3. Relevant Govemment Agency completes Forn DOE/EECF
 Form DOEIEECF records the evaluation decision
* Submit Form to DOE or zc,nal branch along with copies of EE Report (EEQ responses)
*  Recommended envirotimentat clearance is automatic unless written disagreement is
submitted by DOE or its zonal branch office within 10 working days of receipt of Form
DOEIEECF



EA Reqzaremenis for the ERP
measures such as generally available standard operating practices or measures
specifically prescribed by law.    It is suggested that the owner seek advise of an
environmental expert to make such determinations and fill out the required forms.
If a full environmental assessment is required, it should be prepared by the borrower. in
parallel with the techno-ec:onomic feasibility study of the project. The full environmental
assessment would normgilly require that a borrower uses services of environmental
specialists. The profile and job description for an environmental specialist is provided in
Annex E. While preparing the environmental assessment the environmental specialist
should specifically describe remedial measures to mitigate the negative environmental
impact. The cost of such mitigation measures should be included in the environmental
assessment report. The environmental impact mitigation measures should them be
incorporated to become an integral part of the investment project proposed. The loan
amount should be increased to include the financing covering the cost of mitigation
measures.
To ensure proper adherence to NEAGP and Bank policy, the environmental assessment
process for the Loan Fund comprises the following steps:
Step 1: The borrower, in collaboration with a consultant if so desired, undertakes environmental
screening of the investment project at the same time technical and financial analyses are prepared.
Following informal discussicins with the relevant Ministry and DOE, the borrower prepares the
Project Screening ForrmPSF and determines the category of the investment.
Step 2: The relevant Ministry and DOE screen the investment project and confirms to the borrower the
environmental category.
Step 3: Once the project is screened, it is the responsibility of the borrower, or its environmental
consultants, to undertake an EIA or EEQ. The borrower is required to initiate the clearance
process with the relevant authorities in Asmara.
Step 4: The DOE reviews the environmental assessment that has been submitted and reports its
findings to the borrower. The DOE provides its clearance once the environmental analysis is judged
to be satisfactory.
Step 5: The borrower incorporates the recommendatons provided in the EIA or EEQ into the investment
project design and implementation plan, including the estimated costs.
Step 6: The borrower finalizes the loan package, including the relevant environmental documentation,
and submits it to the PIU for its final appraisal.
Step 7: Approvals and clearances of the environmental assessment process are verified by the PIU
before loan effectiveness.
Step 8: The PIU includes an environmental assessment certification form to the PMU as part of the loan
portfolio summary.
6.4 PIU EA Reporting and PMU Monitoring
The PMU will include in its quarterly reports a section on EA status. This section will be
based on the' quarterly PIU EA Reporting Form shown below. The section for this
information is already under "8.0 Other Activities", 8.1 Environmental Impact Analysis.
Page 16 of 17



EA Requirementsfor the ERP
The section name will be changed to Environmental Assessment Status beginning Fourth
Quarter Report October - December 2001.
FIU EA Reporting Form for the PMU
O List any projects undergoing environmental screening.
O List any projects that are completing an EIA or EE
O EIA
O EE
O Provide copy of any EIA, EMP or EE to PMU
o Provide copy oDf any environmental certification forms
6.5 Bank Prior and Post-Review
Environmental evaluations and review procedures will be subject to ad-hoc review by
World Bank supervision missions. Individual projects will be reviewed by Bank staff
according to the same criteria clefined in this document. The review of evaluations will
ensure that the work was of satisfactory quality, stakeholder participation took place when
appropriate, the appropriate recommendations were made, all documentation was
properly filed and recorded, and that the conditions of approval conceming environmental
assessment as prescribed by NEAPG were met.
6.6 Disclosure Requirements
The ERP will undertake several actions to ensure proper disclosure of this EA Report.
First, a copy of the report will be filed for public access and review at the Eritrea World
Bank office, the DOE and at the ERP office. The ERP will place a notification about the
availability of these reports and l:heir locations and access times and include a date and
time to conduct a open forum discussion of the EA Report. This forum will be also
announced on national radio ancl posted in all PIU offices. The forum will be coordinated
by ERP with assistance by a proftessional facilitator that will allow for audience questions.
Page 17 of 17



Date of Evaluation
Record of environmental evaluation decision
Project Categorisation (Circile appropriate category)
1 Unconditional Environmental Clearance
2 Conditional Enviror mental Clearance
3 Environmental Objections (Referral for full EIA)
4 No Environmental Clearance
(A justification of the Environmental Clearance Decision should be provided
below)
Environmental Evaluation Decision Registration at Department of Environment
Date Evaluation Decision Sent to Department of Environment
Signature and Seal of Evaluation Agent
Date



Department of Environment Response to Environmental Clearance Decision
Response
A No objection
B Objection
Date written objection sent to relevant Government agency
Responsibility for preparation of written elaboration of objection
Name
Date written elaboration sent to relevant Government agency
Justification of Categorisalion (Summary of Main Points):



Project Environniental Impact Review Clearance Forn
(DoE/EIRCF)
Project Details
Project Name
Project Number
Date of Registration
Environmental impact review Details
Date of Impact Review Committee Meeting
Composition of Impact Review Committee
Chairman Department of Enviroriment
Committee Members
Documents Reviewed by Committee
Environmental Impact Assessment Report
Environmental Management Plan (draft)
file://C:\eeq\impact review form.htrn                                      9/9;2001



Comments from Stakeholders (list all below)
Response from Project Owner           _
Names of Stakeholders making Comments
Record of environmental impact review committee decision
Project Categorisation
(Circle appropriate category)
A, Unconditional Environmental Clearance
B, Conditional Environmental Clearance (Project requires minor changes)
C, Postponed Environmental Claarance (Environmental Objections, thus project requires
extensive redesign)
D, No Environmental Clearance (Project presents unacceptable environmental risk)
Record justification for category
Registration of environmental impact review committee
DECISION AT DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT
file://C:\eeq\impact review form.htn                                 9/9/2001



Date Impact Review Commiltee (IRC) Decision sent to Department of Environment
Signature and Seal of IRC Chairman
Date
Justification of Review Categorisation
(Summary of Main Points)
Top Of This Page
Environmenf.al Evaluation Question an aire Home
fileI//IAeten\imn2rnt re'view fnrm htm                                Qifl 



Proforma for REVIEW OF ADEQUACY OF
CONTENT AND STRUCTURE OF AN
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
R]EPORT (DoE/PEIAR)
Adequacy Assessment
Report Section
Adequate   Incomplete   Inadequate   Not applicable
General Layout:              OLI                       E l
_ __                   _       _     _ __                      LI
Cover Page                                El          El
Executive Summary            El          El           E 
Table of Contents            O3                        E l.
Introduction                 O            L           OO
Administrative, Policy and   El     O      I           El            LI
Legal Requirements        _
Consideration of Impacts
of Alternatives
a) Description of sources    L            LI           L             LI
of impacts 
b) Description of impact      I           L            L             L
effects
c) Assessment of impact      LI           LI           L             LI
significance             I
d) Evaluation of             LI           LI
alternatives__                                                     ... ._
Definition of Technical       I           L            L             LIO
Terms
file://C:\eeq\PEIAR -EIA review forTn.htm                                9/9/2001



List of Main Contributors   E           U r                        O
to Report
Bibliography (references,   U           U            0             O
other data sources and
personal communications)
Appendices (including       U           U            O             U
ToR)
Record of Consultation:     O           U            U             U 
a) List of third parties    U           U            U             U
contacted
b) Record of stakeholder    U:1         U            U             U
consultation
Conclusion and              U           U            U             0
Recommendations
Top Of This Page
Environmental Eval uation Questionanaire Home
file://C:\eeq\PEIAR -EIA review forn.htm                               9/9/2001



Proforma for .Assessment of Adequacy of Content
and Structure of an environmental Management
Plan (DoE/PEMPR)
Adequacy Assessment
Report Section
Adequate   Incomplete  Inadequate    Not
applicable
Brief Description of the    E      1   El0             1
Proposed Project:                . J
Mitigation Activities:
List of Proposed Mitigation |                                 El
Activities     IiIgt1 
For each Proposed
Mitigation Activity
(photocopy foim as
necessary)
file:/iC:\eeq\PEMTR- review checklist.htm                            9/9/2001



(i) Description of Activity  L                  LI     El          El
(ii) Responsibility for     l             El     1                 l I
implementation                                    _
(iii) Timeframe for                      El            l O
Implementation
(iv) Estimated Cost of       El          El            LI O   
Mitigation
(v) Predicted Impact of       O Li               |                 El
Mitigation
(vi) Responsibility for       Oi                       El         El
Monitoring                                       J
(vii) Responsibility for                  l            El          E l
Action after Non-
compliance                   __       _  _   __ _    _
Top Of This Page
Environmental EvalualtiOl Questionanaire Home
file://C:\eeq\PEMPR- review checklist.htm                                 9/9/2001



