Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T7396-ER
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 69.3 MILLION
(US$90.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO ERITREA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
October 23, 2000



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Nakfa 10.00
October 16, 2000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BE         Bank of Eritrea
BOP        Balance of Payments
CAMEL    Capital adequacy, Asset quality, Management, Earnings/profitability, Liquidity
CBE        Commercial Bank of Eritrea
CWIQ       Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DANIDA    Danish Development Agency
ECDF       Eritrean Community Development Fund
EDIB       Eritrea Development and Investment Bank
EPLF       Eritrean People's Liberation Front
ERN        Eritrean Nakfa
ERP        Emergency Reconstruction Program
ERREC      Eritrean Relief and Refugee Commission
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
GOE        Government of Eritrea
HCBE       Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDP        Internally displaced person
LIB        Limited International Bidding
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOE        Ministry of Energy
MIS        Management Information System
MOLG       Ministry of Local Government
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOPW       Ministry of Public Works
NGO        Non - Governmental Organization
OAU        Organization of African Unity
PFI        Participating Financial institution
PMU        Program Management Unit
PSR        Private Sector Reconstruction
RTCD       Roads Transport Construction Division
SAE        Support for Affected Enterprises
TOR        Terms of Reference
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
UNFPA      United Nations Population Fund
UNMEE    United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea
UNHCR    United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:                   Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:                 Oey Astra Meesook, AFC06
Sector Manager:                   Arvil Van Adams, AFTH4



Team Leader:                                      Laura Frigenti, AFTH4
ERITREA: ENERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
TECHNICAL ANNEXES
Table of Contents
A.  BACKGROUND .....................................................5
I        . The Conflict ...............................................................5
11. Humanitarian Impact .5
III. Damage Assessment                                                   .3
IV. Economic Impact                                                    .4
V. Government Response .5
VI. International Response                                                .6
B.    IDA'S RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ............................................7
1. The Elements of IDA 's Response .....................................................7
11.   IDA 's assistance strategy /Rationale for Bank 's involvement ....................................................8
111.   Lessons Learned .................................................... 10
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION ........................................... .                                                   10
1. Program  Objectives .....................................................                                       10
11. Program Costing and Financing .11
111. Agricultural Component .13
IV. Infrastructure Component: Roads .15
V Infrastructure: Power .17
VI. Private Sector Reconstruction .18
VII.  Social Protection ..............................................................                             26
D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ............................... 30
I. Program  Implementation Period ..............................................................                   30
11. Program  Implementation and Coordination ..............................................................        30
III.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..............................................................     30
IV. Financial Management, Auditing and Reporting .......................................        ....................... 31
V. Project Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................................................                32
VI. Donor Coordination ..............................................................                              33
VII. Environmental Aspects ..............................................................                          33
E.    ACTION  PLAN ..............................................................                                      34
Attachment I                 Emergency Procurement Manual
Attachment II                Financial Management Review
Attachment III               Terms of Reference for Environmental Assessment






A. BACKGROUND
I. The Conflict
1.    Eritrea's struggle for independence began in 1961, following the annexation of
Eritrea by Ethiopia, and it intensified following the military coup in Ethiopia in 1974.
Eritrea became formally independent following an internationally supervised referendum
in April 1993, two years after the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF) gained
military control of Asmara in May 1991.
2.    Open conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia erupted in May 1998, as a
consequence of a dispute over their common border in the Badme region. Until May
2000, the war with Ethiopia was contained to a relatively limited area in Eritrea, with
some 270,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) escaping the border territories.
3.        On May 12, 2000 Ethiopia launched a major new offense on several fronts,
advancing approximately 100 km deep into Eritrean territory, causing a dramatic
humanitarian crisis, with the massive and sudden internal displacement of approximately
1.1 million people (i.e. about one third of the national population).
4.    On June 18, 2000, the parties have agreed to a cease-fire and to resume the peace
talks on the basis of the existing OAU Peace Framework Agreement. The agreement,
inter alia, calls for a buffer zone about 16 miles wide inside Eritrea, where 4,200 UN
Peacekeepers (UNMEE) are to be stationed until Ethiopia withdraws to its pre-war
position and a final settlement to the dispute is reached.
5.    UNMEE will deploy in three phases. The first phase has already been completed
with the establishment of two Military Liaison Offices. The second phase involves the
deployment of 100 Military Observers, 50 in each country. About half of the observers
have already been deployed in September. The third phase will consist of the deployment
of 4,200 peacekeepers along the border.
II.  Humanitarian Impact
6.    The resumption of fighting on May 12, 2000 had a disastrous humanitarian
impact on Eritrea. The most dramatic consequence of the conflict has been the sudden
displacement of approximately 1.1 million people from the Gash Barka and Debub
regions, which contribute some 70 percent of Eritrea's total grain production and are host
to approximately 47 percent of the total population. Of these IDPs, an estimated 230,000
have been settled in several camps in central Eritrea, 50,000 have crossed the border into
Sudan and the remaining are without a secure place to stay. Furthermore, approximately
70,000 people have been deported from



Ethiopia back into Eritrea. The sudden movement of such large numbers of people, in a total
population of roughly 3.5 million, has put host communities under considerable strain and it is
estimated that about 170,000 people in host communities are also affected.
7.    Several rapid assessments of the humanitarian situation have been carried out by
the Eritrean Relief and Refugee Commission (ERREC) in collaboration with UN
agencies and NGOs. According to these assessments, the situation of IDPs remains
critical, although there have been some small improvements since the crisis began.
Generally, displaced people have been living without shelter and access to potable water
and sanitation; their movements have been fluid, often seeking safety in remote areas,
making access by the relief agencies extremely difficult, especially after the inception of
rains. Distribution of food aid has been uneven among IDPs locations, and signs of
children malnutrition have started to appear in camps. Furthermore, displacement has had
a major negative impact on agricultural activities. The Ministry of Agriculture has
estimated that, as of early August, only 38 percent of normal agricultural activity had
occurred, which means there will be great repercussions on harvesting prospects and food
security for next year. As far as health conditions are concerned, poor hygienic conditions
in the camps have caused the spreading of infectious diseases, particularly respiratory
infections. Recent reports have revealed that there is currently 1 doctor available per
35,000 people in the country, and that only 10 out of 58 health facilities in Gash Barka
are still functioning. The same reports stress that 80 percent of the IDPs camps have no
form of emergency education facility. At the same time, the demographic profile of IDPs
is: 65-70 percent children, 25-27 percent women, and the rest are elderly. This
underscores the urgency for support to arrest further suffering and to begin the recovery
efforts.
8.    Under the current circumstances, return to original residence is not yet a safe
option for the majority of IDPs. The Ethiopian Army still has control over large areas
south of the Gash River and Upper Gash and Galuj sub-zones. In areas close to the
border, the main threat to returnees comes from landmines. Figures on the number of
returnees are difficult to obtain at this point. According to the last rapid assessment
jointly conducted by ERREC, UN and other NGOs, as of August 2000, 163,077 people
had voluntarily returned to the Gash Barka, Debub and Anseba region - only 14 percent
of the total IDPs population. More recent reports show that, as of September, the number
of returnees has been increasing. Three out of the twenty two existing IDPs camps had
been emptied, and their inhabitants had returned to their home areas. The most recent
estimates by ERREC however suggest that, as of late September, there were still 212,885
IDPs living in a total of 25 camps, with the rest of IDPs still scattered throughout the
country. Furthermore, a total of 23,881 Eritreans refugees from Sudan have been
repatriated so far, through a tri-partite arrangement between the Government of Eritrea,
the Government of Sudan and UNHCR. The three parties are constantly assessing
whether the situation is conducive to promote repatriation of this group. The last rapid
assessment estimated that there is need to provide three months worth of ratios to
returning families, together with drought-resistant seeds, hand tools and tents. There is
also an urgent need to rehabilitate basic social infrastructure in most villages where
people are planning to return.
2



9.    Besides war, Eritrea is also suffering from recurrent drought. Along with several
other parts of the Horn of Africa, the Sahel area of Eritrea (predominantly pastoral areas)
has been particularly affected by the failure of short rains two years in a row. Out-
migration to more food-secure and urban areas has begun. Some 316,000 people are
estimated to have been affected.
III. Damage Assessment
10.  In September 2000, the Government made available to the international donors
community the final Damage Assessment, prepared under the coordination of the
University of Asmara, which gives a monetary estimate of property destroyed in the two
war affected regions, Gash Barka and Debub. The Damage Assessment has provided an
important basis for the costing of the ERP, although it should not be considered by any
means exhaustive - its focus is strictly economic, does not factor human or social costs,
and it is geographically confined. In fact, areas still under Ethiopian control could not be
accessed by the surveyors, and damages caused by the war in the area around Assab were
also not factored in. Therefore the results of the damage assessment should be considered
as incomplete and preliminary.
Table 1. Affected Areas (1998)
DEBUB           GASH BARKA    ERITREA
No.      percen No.       percent. No.        percent
Area (Km")        8,349     7      33,350   27      122,787     100
Population        776,633   22     541,667  16      2,181,700   100
Households        191, 670  27     145,304  20      879,685     100
11.   The assessment classifies damaged "property" into the following five categories:
(a) Farming Households (including houses, livestock and draught animals, cereals,
agricultural implements and household items); (b) Non-Farming Households (including
shops, hotels, bars, restaurants, small businesses); (c) Residential Households (including
urban houses and their valuables); (d) Public Infrastructure (including schools, hospitals
and health centers, and government offices); and (e) Expensive Property (including
agricultural and industrial complexes, bridges, roads, vehicles and large equipment).
12.   The surveyors visited 22 sub-zobas in Debub and Gash Barka. The information
was collected through specific questionnaires distributed to 299 informants, who had
been chosen as representatives for each Kebabi, the smallest administrative unit in
Eritrea. The data collected in each Kebabi were subsequently aggregated to give the total
cost estimate. The results were finally compared with informnation available within the
relevant local administrations.
13.   Practically, all Kebabis in each-sub-zoba suffered damages with the exception of
Dekemhare, Debarawa, and Segheneiti in Debub. Overall, the damages that have been
incurred are significant and their order of magnitude is US$ 564 million - slightly larger
than the national GDP (US$ 509 million). The findings show that, as a result of the war,
the Gash Barka region suffered the most, with 74 percent of total damages, while the
3



remaining 26 percent is in Debub. Per capita value of property loss is estimated to be
around US$ 1,000 in Gash Barka and US$ 100 in Debub (including both private assets,
and damage to large establishments and public infrastructure).
14.   With regard to the spectrum of the damages, the agricultural sector has incurred
the highest damages - approximately US$ 352 million, i.e. 62.4 percent of the total - of
which 74.8 percent occurred in the Gash Barka region alone. The bulk of agricultural
damages are due to loss of livestock, amounting to approximately US$ 225 million. The
total value of missing cereal is US$ 47 million. The bulk of damages inflicted on non-
farning households (mainly urban dwellers and shop-keepers) is mostly in the Debub
region (58 percent) and amounts to approximately US$ 95 million.
15.  In terms of private housing, the assessment calculates that a total of 54,276 houses
have been destroyed in both regions, for an estimated value of US$ 41 million, excluding
those houses which need to be repaired. The values of the damages sustained by public
buildings is comparatively less - about 4.2 percent of the total - and amounts to an
estimated US$ 24 million. Of this amount, US$ 4.7 million is the cost of schools which
have been destroyed; while the cost of destroyed hospitals and health facilities totals US$
2.5 million. The majority of public infrastructure was destroyed in Debub (56 percent)
while almost all of the destroyed industrial infrastructure is in Gash Barka. Most of the
industrial damage was to the Alighider ginning factory and the Tokombia Tobacco
enterprise. The total cost for the loss of these and other large scale properties (e.g.
bridges, roads, commercial farns) is approximately US$ 53 million.
Table 2 - Destruction by Category (US$ million)
Debub         Gash Barka       TOTAL
$     percent $       percent  $       percent
Farming Households      41.2   27.8   311.3  74.8    352.6  62.4
Non Farming Households  55.7   37.5   40       9.6      95.7   17
Other Households        37.1   25      2.2    0.6       39.4    7
Public Infrastructure   13.2   8.9    10.4   2.5        23.6   4.1
Large scale establishments  1.2   0.8    52.1   12.5    53.4   9.5
TOTAL                   148.4  100    416    100        564.7  100
IV. Economic Impact
16.   Since the conflict began in May 1998, Eritrea has accumulated substantial
economic stress. Average real GDP growth has declined from 8 percent in 1997 to 3
percent in 1999. Activity in most sectors has slowed largely because of labor shortages
following mobilization of nearly 170,000 citizens for the war effort, the influx of war-
related refugees, war-related expenditures, the closure of the border with Ethiopia, and
shortages of foreign exchange.
17.   With the outbreak of the conflict in May 1998, and the closure of the border, trade
relations between the two countries were totally disrupted. In addition, the diversion of
4



Ethiopia's transit goods away from Assab port since May 1998 resulted in a considerable
loss of fiscal revenue (4 percent of GNP), external service receipts, and in increased
unemployment. These losses, coupled with an increase in defense and relief expenditures
related to the war, have been the principal sources of fiscal pressures for Eritrea
18.   An IMF mission was conducted in parallel to the ERP appraisal to look at the
state of the Eritrean economy immediately after the conflict. Generally, mission findings
show that the macroeconomic pressures which began in 1998 persisted throughout the
first seven months of 2000, yet most current figures are in line with projections.
Preliminary estimates suggest that the fiscal deficit increased from 5.5 percent of GNP in
1997 to 48 percent in 1999, and has not substantially decreased in the year 2000. Short of
external financing, the deficit has been financed by a sharp increase in domestic
borrowing, from US$ 4.8 million in 1997 to about US$ 160 million in 1999 and projected
to total US$ 130 million in 2000. Furthermore, gross international reserves have declined
from the equivalent of 6.4 months worth of imports in 1997 to 3.3 months in 1999.
Interviews with private sector representatives, as well as the banks, suggest that the
private sector currently has almost no access to foreign exchange and this has had a
significant inhibiting effect on private sector activity. The contraction on domestic output
has resulted in a steady increase in inflation rates, from 11.2 percent in December 1999 to
18.4 percent in June 2000.
19.   Total expenditures have been moderately lower than expected, with the most
notable overruns for domestic capital projects (e.g. for emergency reconstruction of basic
infrastructure which had not been budgeted for this year). Defenses outlays were lower
than projected, and lower than during the first seven months of last year, yet still
accounting for 29 percent of total expenditures.
20.   Furthermore, the conflict has threatened Eritrea's efforts to reduce poverty. With
a per capita income among the lowest in Africa ($200), Eritrea is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Most of the country's social indicators, such as average life
expectancy (46 years) and infant mortality (135 per 1000 births), tend to be lower than in
the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa. As a result of the last outbreak of hostilities, most
families have been affected by the mobilization of almost all the men aged 18-40, so that
90 percent of the displaced households are now female headed. Overall, the sudden loss
of productive assets during the last displacement, and the disruption of the planting
season in Eritrea's breadbasket regions, are factors which are likely to negatively affect
poor households' income for at least one more year.
V.  Government Response
21.   The Government's response to the crisis has been twofold: (i) provision of
emergency relief and assistance to the IDPs and the host communities; and (ii)
organization of available human and financial resources in order to start the process of
reconstructing and rehabilitating the areas damaged by the recent fighting.
5



(i) Emergency relief has been mainly provided by the Eritrean Relief and Refugee
Commission (ERREC) which, since the time of the liberation struggle, has provided essential
food, shelter, and medical care for people in need. Based on its long experience and ties with
local communities, during this emergency, ERREC has been the agency responsible for
delivering humanitarian assistance, as well as the agency responsible for NGO coordination.
Despite its limited capacity, ERREC has so far succeeded in providing most people with
sufficient food, medicine, shelter and other basic goods and services to prevent major loss of
life or disease. It has been able to do this by importing food and essential supplies using scarce
foreign exchange.
(ii) Reconstruction activities have also been promptly planned by the Government. To
this end, the Government has requested Bank's assistance through the proposed ERP. The
government's reconstruction strategy is complex and requires the involvement of all
government agencies, as well as a significant contributions from the international community.
The process of reconstruction and rehabilitation of such large areas of the country will be
undertaken in two phases: (i) a first set of immediate needs will be met through the financing of
the ERP which will enable the country to restart some productive activities and repair key
infrastructure; (ii) the remaining and less urgent needs will be addressed through individual
sector programs prepared and financed in collaboration with the development community, and
within the framework of the 2001 - 2003 medium term development program.
VI. International Response
22.   Since the outbreak of hostilities in May 1998, most donors have responded to the
different emergency appeals put out by the Government, however in most cases new
funds were not committed. An appeal to seek international support for emergency and
relief needs was launched by ERREC in collaboration with the UN in May, 2000, for
US$ 48.7 million, and revised in July to US$ 87.4 million, owing to the sudden crisis.
The response to this appeal has been more positive than in the case of previous appeals,
although approximately 50 percent below the expected needs. Donors have included
European Union, Italy, the United States, Denmark, Japan, The Netherlands, Saudi
Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, France and the United Nations agencies (World Food
Program, United Nations High Commission for Refugees, UNDP, FAO, WHO, tTNFPA,
and UNICEF) which have supplied funds, goods and logistical assistance. International
NGOs, including OXFAM, Save the Children (U.K.), Africare, ACCORD, International
Committee of the Red Cross, CARE International and others, are working through
ERREC to provide water and sanitation facilities, tents and tarps, and essential food and
medicines to the IDPs and the refugee camps. A new UN Consolidated Inter-Agency
Appeal for Eritrea will be launched early next year.
23.   Since the signing of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement on June 18, 2000,
most donors have been revising their stance on development cooperation and are ready to
resume development activities in Eritrea. The Government asked for the Bank's
assistance in preparing the ERP and presenting it to the international community for
financial support. The Program was discussed with representatives of several multilateral
and bilateral agencies during a preliminary meeting organized by the Government in
Asmara in July 2000, as well as during meetings with individual donor agencies. The first
6



response so far has been good, both in terms of working together at identifying a single
set of procedures which satisfy all co-financing partners, and in terms of financial
support. Subsequently, a multi-donor ERP appraisal mission has been carried out to
assess the feasibility and adequacy of the program's individual components, as well as to
finalize procurement, financial management and implementation issues. A meeting to
finalize the financing plan for the program was organized by the Government in
September 2000, during the program appraisal mission. The following five donors
besides IDA have pledged money to the ERP: European Union (US$ 50 million'), Italy
(US$ 58.7 million), Denmark (US$ 11 million), France (US$ 3 million), and the African
Development Bank (US$ 21 million).
B.    IDA's RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
I.    The Elements of IDA's Response
24.   When the conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia first broke out in 1998, the
Bank's initial posture was to continue lending, although in practice no new lending
operations were approved to Eritrea since there were none ready to go to the Board at that
time. In April 1999, after an escalation of hostilities, the Bank decided to defer all new
lending to both Eritrea and Ethiopia. However, the Bank continued to be fully engaged
through non-lending activities and preparation of new projects to be presented to the
Board once the time would be appropriate. Despite the war, disbursements on existing
portfolios have continued, as well as routine supervision missions.
25.   Recent briefings to the Board have stressed that, even in the absence of a final
peace agreement, the Bank would nonetheless resume selective project lending to both
countries for urgent, high impact operations which would have large benefits to the poor
and have an unquestionable developmental impact. The Board was usually supportive of
this approach.
26.   During the last outbreak of hostilities, and the unfolding of the consequent
humanitarian crisis, the Bank received a request from the Government of Eritrea for
emergency assistance. With the signing of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement, the
Bank's response has been threefold:
* Reallocation of: (i) US$1.2 million equivalent from the ongoing Health Project
(Credit No. 3023-ER) to finance essential drugs and other urgently needed medical
supplies; and (ii) up to US$3.7 million equivalent from the ongoing Eritrea
Community Development Fund (ECDF) Project (Credit No. 2823-ER) to finance
water supply and sanitation subprojects in areas with high concentrations of IDPs,
The EU delegation present at the pledging conference informed the mission that they are pursuing the
allocation of up to an additional 35 million EURO for the rehabilitation of infrastructure. The Bank has
recently learned that this additional amount will be forthcoming from the EU, which would leave no
financing gap in the Program.
7



which are of high priority in the current emergency situation. These two reallocations
are fully consistent with the original development objectives of the projects.
* Reallocation of US$20 million equivalent from the ongoing Human Resources
Development Project (Credit No. 3033-ER) to finance nutritional supplements,
kitchen utensils, stoves, agricultural inputs, and associated transport services.
* Preparation of an Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP) in collaboration with all
interested development partners.
27.   Furthermore, in June 2000, the Board approved the Eritrea Early Childhood
Development project (US$ 40 million), the first new lending operation in two years, thus
endorsing the idea of selective lending. The project covers child and maternal health and
nutrition, childhood education and support for children in difficult situations.
II.  IDA's assistance strategy / Rationale for Bank's involvement
28.   The Bank has recently finalized an Interim Support Strategy for Eritrea, as a
precursor to a more detailed Transitional Support Strategy, expected to be defined in
2002. The Interim Support Strategy outlines the Bank's assistance strategy to the
Government in the transition to peace over the next 12-18 months. The strategy takes into
account the serious constraints presently affecting the country's development prospects
such as: (i) the lack of a final negotiated peace agreement; (ii) the prolonged need for
humanitarian relief over the next 18-24 months; (iii) the severe macroeconomic
imbalances; (iv) the drop in exports and the dramatic increase in domestic debt; and (v)
the physical damages to infrastructure. Taking these factors into account, the strategy
revolves around three pillars: (i) the existing Portfolio (six projects) will be managed so
as to maximize its contribution to the emergency humanitarian needs and reconstruction
efforts of the country; (ii) the level of new lending for FY01  i.e. the interim period - will
be increased above the yearly allocation set for Eritrea (US$ 90 million), thus
acknowledging the country's extraordinary needs for financing in order to rebuild both
the infrastructure and the economy. Besides the ERP, new lending for FY01 will include
an HIV/AIDS-Malaria-Tuberculosis project (HAMSET). Preparation of priority
programs for the next phase of the transitional support strategy will involve
demobilization and support for macroeconomic management. The government has
already started the demobilization process. Once there is significant progress in the peace
process and the UN peace-keepers are in place, the Government is planning to ask
support from the International Community to finance the costs associated with the
demobilization effort. Should available grant resources not be available, the Government
may approach IDA. The Bank will also be working with the IMF on a potential balance
of payments support program. (iii) Non-lending work will be carried out during this
interim period: three pieces of Economic and Sector Work in the Financial, Agriculture
and Export Development sectors; a Heath Sector Note and an Education Sector Note; as
well as a Country Economic Memorandum. During the Interim period, Government will
also prepare an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP), that will guide long-
term development strategy and will underpin the new CAS.
8



29.   The proposed ERP was conceived to address the five constraints outlined by the
Interim Support Strategy. The Program acknowledges that any long-term development
solution will be subject to achieving a durable and stable peace. Still, the Program also
considers that, short of a final peace agreement, the country's immediate needs are
overwhelming, particularly given the size of Eritrea's economy, the current
macroeconomic imbalances (e.g. large deficit, shrinking foreign reserves), the drop in
exports and in private sector productivity, and the scarce access to external financing.
30.   The Program's rationale primarily underscores the idea that neglecting these
urgent needs would eventually jeopardize the country's long-term development
prospects. Nevertheless, it carefully takes into account the risks associated with the
present circumstances. Specifically, the size of the Program (US$ 287.7 million) was
conceived not to cover all the country's needs, but rather to ensure sustainability, i.e. it
keeps in mind the small size of the economy, the limited implementation and absorption
capacity, and the necessity to avoid unsustainable debt levels in the future. Given its
limited size, the Program was therefore designed according to the principle of selectivity:
it chooses to prioritize those areas (e.g. infrastructure and private sector rehabilitation)
which will eventually jump-start the economy and create the conditions for long-term
development, while at the same time tackling the immediate economic and social needs
of the most vulnerable people.
31.       In 1996 the Board approved the first CAS for Eritrea. The former CAS
directly supports Eritrea's development priorities and the country's overall strategy for
post-conflict reconstruction after its 30 years long war independence war with Ethiopia.
The CAS places particularly high priority on (i) Private Sector Reconstruction, in
particular by expanding investment, production and exports; (ii) strengthening physical
infrastructure, such as roads and public services, to ensure effectiveness of economic
activities; (iii) human resource development, through the strengthening of education,
training and institutional capacity; and (iv) support for poor communities and vulnerable
groups through social funds.
32.   The Emergency Reconstruction Program directly supports all CAS objectives. It
supports these objectives by: (i) providing debt relief and working capital to the war-
affected private sector, so that it can effectively lead the country's economic recovery;
(ii) restoring key roads networks and power plants so that economic activity, trade and
delivery of social services can be quickly resumed; (iii) offering technical assistance to
banks in credit risk analysis, and in developing banking regulations, and to the Ministry
of Public Works in managing the works program; and (iv) assisting poor rural
communities and IDPs in the effort to rebuild basic social infrastructure and to repair
housing, as well as by providing them with access to micro-credit schemes and temporary
employment opportunities. Furthermore, through the Balance of Payment component -
which is not financed, by IDA but included as part of the ERP appraised package - the
program helps macroeconomic stabilization, by making resources available to the
Government which are essential to revitalize its foreign exchange reserves and to manage
its fiscal deficit.
9



III. Lessons Learned
33.   A previous Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Credit (ERRC) to the
Transitional Government of Ethiopia for Eritrea2 had been approved by IDA in March
1993, for an amount of US$ 25 million. The ERRC was a multi-donor, multi-sector
emergency program, aiming to restore agricultural and industrial production, rehabilitate
infrastructure, support communities rehabilitation, and strengthen public institutions after
a devastating thirty years long independence war. The Implementation Completion
Report of RRPE rates the outcome as generally satisfactory, as implementation was
substantially completed within the three year time frame, and over 90 percent of donors
funds were disbursed. The program (US$ 156 million) provided the bulk of donor aid
supporting Eritrea's economic recovery, and it contributed to a steady GNP growth
between 1994-96 (from 1 percent to 6.5 percent). The main lessons learned from this
experience were:
*  Commitment and ownership of the borrower is essential for a successful
implementation of emergency projects.
*  Multi-donor operations are complex to manage. It is important that responsibilities for
donor coordination are well-established early in the program; that different
emergency procurement and disbursement procedures are well harmnonized; that
flexibility in these procedures is introduced, since in an emergency situation speed of
implementation is as critical as accountability.
*  The borrower needs early assistance and training to be able to handle emergency
procedures, particularly on procurement.
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
1.   Program Objectives
34.   The immediate objective of the proposed program is to begin the process of long-
term reconstruction and economic recovery. Particular attention is being paid to long
term sustainability so that actions taken now during the emergency do not have long-term
adverse consequences on institutions and programs. In addition, elements of the ERP will
complement the ongoing efforts coordinated by ERREC to respond to the immediate
humanitarian needs.
35.   The needs arising from the conflict and drought are overwhelming for a country
of Eritrea's size. As indicated earlier, a partial and preliminary estimate of damage in
Gash Barka and Debub, excluding the areas still under Ethiopian control, is US$ 564
million. Given the limited resources available, the program is designed to finance a set of
complementary actions in support of the public and private sectors that will both be
responsible for restarting the economy. One set of actions revolves around rebuilding
infrastructure: roads and bridges (which are also important for the humanitarian
program), power facilities, schools and health centers, to prevent a further decline in
social indicators.
2 Eritrea had not yet become a member of the Bank Group by then. Obligation of the Credit was assumed
by the Government of Eritrea upon joining the World Bank in July 1994
10



36.   These actions will be complemented by a set of programs to assist households to
rebuild their livelihoods and to jumpstart the private sector. A set of complementary
financial programs will be offered: debt forgiveness for bank borrowers most directly
affected by the conflict, small loans through the Village Bank program for households
and small enterprises, and larger loans through the commercial banks, which will also
provide access to foreign exchange. In addition, a large agricultural component will
provide households with inputs that will enable them to begin farming activities again, in
the expectation that agricultural production will quickly move back to prewar levels. A
balance of payments component will provide much needed liquidity and flexibility to the
37.   The number of people who will be able to return to their community of origin in
the immediate future is still uncertain. This is due to various reasons: (i) the peace
process has not been completely finalized; (ii) the border demarcation process may take
some time; and (iii) in the meanwhile, Ethiopian forces are still occupying portions of
Eritrean territory. For these reasons, the ERP will focus on people and the services they
need, rather than purely on rehabilitation of infrastructure. This will mean that the
program will provide resources for both reconstruction of key infrastructure for those
communities where people will be able to return in the short term (i.e. roads, bridges,
power facilities, housing), and provision of temporary services (i.e., make-shift
classrooms, mobile health facilities) for both temporarily resettled and host communities.
II.  Program Costing and Financing
38.   The Program includes five major sub-components: (i) Agriculture (ii)
Infrastructure Rehabilitation (iii) Private Sector Reconstruction (iv) Social Protection and
(v) Balance of Payments.
39.   Program Costing  The total costing for the Program has been estimated at
US$287.7 million. IDA's proposed contribution is US$90 million.
Table 3. Emergency Reconstruction Program Costing Table (in million US$)
. ...... ....... .. ..... .............. .............................. ......... .. .... ..... ... . ...... ........... .. .............-......... .. .....  ...... ..... .  ... ....... ...... .... ........ ......  .... .  ... ...........   ........ ................... .. .... ..........    ...................  ... . ..... ....
Component                                                           US$
1ll.    Agriculture                                                                                      43.0
2.   Infrastructure rehabilitation                                                                       61.0
Energy                                                                                           25.0
Roads                                                                                           36.0
3.   Private Sector Reconstruction                                                                       45.0
4.   Social protection                                                                                   41.0
ECDF infrastructure component                                                                   21.0
. .... ............ .............. -----  _.. . ... ........ ............. ................... ..................... ...... .... ............   ....... ... .......   ..... .................. ............................ ......... ...^......... .... .
ECDF micro-credit component                                                                       2.0
,........................ ..... ... ........ . ...... ............. ........ .  ...I..................... .............   ..   ............ ....   ...... ... ........ .. .......... ........ .... ... ............................  ...... .. ..... ..   ............-....... . ...........             ...     .....
Housing program                                                                                 10.0
Traditional Safety Nets                                                                           8.0
5. Balance of Payments                                                                                   77.5
6. Program Management and Monitoring and Evaluation                                                        4.0
7. Contingencies                                                                                         16.2
TOTAL                                                                                                   287.7
11



40.   Program Financing Plan and Size of IDA Contribution. The GOE expressed
its vision of seeing the ERP as an umbrella program to be financed, through parallel or
co-financing, by a multiplicity of donors. With this view, a meeting with representatives
of the donor community was organized on September 9, 2000, to present the program and
seek co-financing. The proposed size of IDA contribution is US$ 90 million, to finance
activities in agriculture, road rehabilitation, energy, private sector reconstruction and
social protection. The tables below show the current financing plan for the ERP, and the
allocation of IDA resources across the Program's component.
Table 4. ERP Financing Plan
(in million US$)
ERP Total Costs                       287.7
Government of Eritrea                  24.0
European Union                         50.0*
Italy                                  58.7
Denmark                                11.0
France                                  3.0
IDA                                    90.0
African Development Bank               21.0
Total Financing                       257.7
Financing GAP                          30.0
The EU delegation informed the mission that they are actively pursuing the allocation of additional
resources up to 35 million Euro for the rehabilitation of infrastructure. If this additional amount is
secured, that would leave no financing gap in the Program.
Table 5. Breakdown of IDA Contribution
(in million US$)
ERP Component            IDA
Agriculture               15
Private Sector Reconstructio 30
Roads                     15
Energy                    15
Social Protection         8.5
Balance of Payments       0
Operating costs           2
Contingencies             4.5
Total                     90
12



III. Agricultural Component
(US$43 million, of which IDA US$15 million)
41.   Objective. The agriculture component will finance the purchase and distribution
of seeds, fertilizers, agricultural tools (hand tools and implements to be drawn by
animals), tractors and machinery, livestock, storage facilities, and veterinary inputs.
Agricultural inputs, including livestock will be given as a one-time grant to an estimated
770,000 war and drought-affected households, the majority of whom are farmers, to
enable them to resume agricultural and livestock production. It is expected that the
distribution of small stock (poultry and bees) and of machinery services will particularly
benefit women farmers, as there has been a sharp increase in the number of female
headed households during and after the conflict.
42.   Description. IDA financing for this component will be US$15 million. Initially,
the Government's proposal for agriculture amounted to US$ 68.2 million, divided
between three categories: (i) Land Resources and Crop Production (32 percent) (ii)
Agricultural Machinery (55 percent) and (iii) Livestock production (13 percent). The
appraisal mission reduced the size of the agricultural component from US$68.2 million to
US$43 million. The agricultural machinery component was cut from US$37.4 million to
US$17 million, the crop production component was cut to US$ 17 million, while the
livestock production component was slightly increased to US$9.5 million. The main
reasons for the suggested cut to the Government's proposal are that: (i) the agricultural
component would be too large for the overall financial envelope of the Program; (ii) the
proposal was too concentrated on acquiring machinery that was sometimes inappropriate
for the factor proportions of a very low wage country; and (iii) the proposal did not
devote sufficient resources to the most serious loss, namely livestock.
43.   The Ministry of Agriculture informed the mission that it was preparing additional
data on the machinery component with a view to increasing its size. The mission agreed
to re-consider the relative sizes and compositions of the three components, within the
overall agricultural envelope of the operation, subject to technical evaluation at
negotiations.
44.   Based on the program submitted by the govermnent to the appraisal mission, the
agriculture component of the operation would still have the three sub-components
proposed by the Government: (i) land resources and crop production; (ii) mechanized
agriculture and support services; and (iii) animal resources. These components have been
targeted to the regions and affected groups within those regions to revive productive
capacities, to permit rural families to return to their farms and to launch some new
activities, and to restore public services that were destroyed.
Part 1. The Land Resources and Crop Production sub-component would finance
about 53 percent of the agriculture component. It would allow acquisition of: (i) some
20,000 tons of seeds for the main cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables grown by
small farmers, mainly in Debub and Gash-Barka; (ii) some US$ 2.8 million of local hand
13



tools and spare parts for farn families; (iii) 1,500 tons of fertilizers for crops3; (iv) 10,000
draft animals (oxen and camels) for roughly 5,000 small farmer families who lost their
stock in the war; (v) water pumps to permit some small-scale irrigation; (vi) rehabilitation
of soil conservation works destroyed or damaged during the war; (vii) afforestation of
damaged areas; (viii) a small program of adaptive research, to be financed entirely by
DANIDA (which has an on-going project to assist Eritrea agriculture) for the conflict
areas; and (ix) a small credit fund, to be financed entirely by DANIDA, for farm families
who lost assets in the war.
Part 2. The Mechanized Agriculture and Support Services sub-component is
intended to restore some of the public and private sectors' capacities to provide farmn
power for cultivation, transport, harvesting, and threshing in view of the losses in the war.
The provision of tractors and other heavy machinery is needed for the following reasons:
(i) the reduced availability of agricultural labor calls for a partial and temporary shift
from labor-intensive to mechanized agriculture; (ii) since part of the Gash Barka and
Debub regions will not be available for agricultural production in the near future, there is
need to expand activities elsewhere in those zobas through mechanized agriculture; and
(iii) to replace draft power, during one or two seasons, which was formerly contributed
by animals killed or looted in the war. The sub-component would finance: (i) small
tractors for primary cultivation; (ii) seed planters, weeders and other tools; (iii) some
harvesting equipment in areas where labor is unusually scarce because of the war and the
related disruption; (iv) transport equipment to move harvests from isolated areas to roads
and markets; (v) threshing equipment in areas where labor is scarce; and (vi) workshops,
storage and repair facilities. With IDA and FAO technical assistance the Government of
Eritrea is preparing a plan to privatize this machinery after the immediate needs related to
the war emergency have been met.
Part 3. The Animal Resources sub-component is intended to restore productive
capacities through restocking and feed production and to introduce new income
generating activities, especially for women. This sub-component would specifically
finance: (i) restocking of poultry (about 560,000 chicks, feed, and animal housing),
targeted to camps of displaced persons and to those who have gone back to devastated
areas; (ii) bee-keeping activities (stock, feed, and housing); (iii) limited restocking of
approximately 156,000 ruminants (beef cattle, dairy cattle, goats, sheep, donkeys); (iv)
strategic feed supplies and range improvements for ruminants; and (v) vaccine
acquisition, laboratory materials and other items to restore some of the public veterinary
service.
45.   The appraisal mission noted that while livestock were by far the most seriously
damaged asset, they are also the most difficult to replace. One reason is that animals are
in very inelastic supply (unlike seeds, fertilizer and machines, which are imported). An
injection of cash may cause animal prices to rise sharply. A second reason is that only
older animals may be available for sale; such animals have little or no remaining growth
potential and so the only profit realized by their new owners will be the cash value of the
purchase price if the latter is subsidized. A third reason is that feed will be scarce because
3 The government has adequate stocks of fertilizers for cereals and legumes for the 2001 season and these
would not be procured under the proposed operation.
14



of the drought; a sudden increase in the stocking rate (if indeed it happens) is therefore
unsustainable. Fourth, distributing oxen in the 2000 farming season will have no effect as
the plowing season has passed.
46. Despite these objections to purchasing animals, the mission endorses the
allocation of some of the ERP funds to that purpose. The MOA has experience with
buying animals in relief situations and hence it has a well considered plan to procure
appropriate stock through auctions or local shopping. In addition, the MOA, the MOLG
and the relief authorities have identified farm families, including those who have returned
to the affected areas and those who are in camps, who can benefit most from the
distribution of stock. Distribution will be done with due regard to equity and productivity
considerations. Finally, the stock to be distributed - draft animals, sheep and goats,
poultry, and bees - are well known to the targeted farming groups, pose no problem in
terms of management with local technology and inputs, and are divisible with respect to
scale so that they can be efficiently used by small farmers, especially those headed by
women.
IV. Infrastructure Component: Roads
(US$ 36 million, of which IDA US$ 15 million)
47. Objective. The proposed roads infrastructure component is aimed at providing
emergency recovery assistance to the Government of Eritrea for (i) the
restoration/rehabilitation of key road and bridge facilities severely damaged by the war,
(ii) the restoration and provision of access to settlements/camps occupied, or to be
occupied by: (a) internally displaced persons (IDPs) who have also been impoverished
through loss of property and livelihood especially from the zobas (Administrative
Regions) of Gash-Barka and Debub, and (b) recent refugees in Sudan seeking to return
home to Eritrea, and long-standing refugees in Sudan whose return to Eritrea has been
hampered by the protracted 2-year border conflict; as well as (iii) provision of improved
access roads to areas of recurring drought and famine. The above objectives will
contribute to:
(isecuring the timely delivery of social services to the affected populations, by restoring
accessibility;
(ii) facilitating the re-settlement of war refugees into productive activities by restoring /
rehabilitating key sections of road and providing new road access and facilities;
(iii) stabilizing the ecosystem near the affected areas by arresting further deterioration of
enviromnental conditions;
(iv) reducing infrastructure-related market and distribution costs by reducing road transport
costs.
48. Description.. The war has damaged parts of the national and regional road
network with the destruction of key roads and bridges, severely hampering accessibility
and economic activity especially in the Zobas of Gash-Barka and Debub. The five sub-
components are aimed at the emergency restoration/rehabilitation of affected road and
bridge infrastructure:
15



Part 1. Repair of war-destroyed bridges and approachesThree critical bridges have been
destroyed: Tesseney Gash Bridge, Dassie-Awgaro Gash Bridge, and Kuluku Gash Bridge.
These bridges serve as the most vital supply route for relief materials to major cities, refugees
and IDP camps and settlements; and agricultural and pastoral areas mostly devastated by the
war. Restoration with Bailey bridges, along with road approaches to bridges was urgently
needed. Following the June 2000 mission, RTCD (Roads Transport Construction Division)
Units under the overall supervision of MOPW-Infrastructure Department engineers have
already repaired and installed the Tesseney Bridge over the Gash River. The restoration of the
other two bridges will depend on progress in the peace process.
Part 2. . Construction of one Bailey bridge and new access roads and
reconstruction/reshaping existing roads to serve new settlements The works will
comprise installation of a Bailey bridge and construction of associated abutments and
piers, as well as new access road construction along existing tracks and improvements of
existing roads leading to major new settlements. The works will be preceded by design of
the bridge abutments and piers. These include mainly:
(i) The links along the Central Belt : Akurdet - Kerkebet (110 km), Kerkebet - Zara
(80km), Zara - Melebso (lOOkm), Melebso - Afabet (60km), Afabet - Abarara (80km),
totaling 430km. In addition,
(ii) Minor links required to connect IDPs including Maiseraw - Alba (24km), Shebah -
Ghirghir (55km), Aderde - Shelab (13km), and Sawa - Moluber (45km), and totaling
137km; and
(iii) The proposal at appraisal was to improve the road connections from Barentu-
Awgaro, over the Dassie-Awgaro Gash bridge (to be reconstructed under Part 1 above),
with a link to Tokombiya, approximately 65 km. The MOPW-ID has proposed that this
road may be executed with a higher priority over the road no. (i) under Part 3, below,
unless GOE otherwise proposes a re-allocation of resources within the ERP for both
roads.
49.   The proposed works will comprise mainly grubbing, grading and partial filling
works including minor drainage structures and Irish crossings or fords.
Part 3. Construction of small bridges and culverts, and reshaping and widening of road
sections essential for ensuringaccess to poor communities chronically affected by drought
and famine. This component will include two major Belt Roads leading to drought and famine
areas and relief materials supply centers. The major road sections are as follows:
(i) North Eastern Belt: Abarara - Mahmimet - Karora (230 km), Afabet - Kubkub - Ma'amide
(55 km), totaling 285 km
(ii) Northern Belt: Selaa-Titay Damr-Kerkebet (130km), Kerkebet-Zara (80km), Zara-Hasta-
Itaro (100km), Itaro - Nakfa (90km), Nakfa - Afabet (66km), totaling 446 km.
50.   The total length of all these roads will be 731 km. Most of the works will include
grubbing, grading, and partial cut and fill works including minor drainage structures and
Irish crossings or fords.
16



Part 4. Procurement of Bailey Bridge Sections, Vehicles and Office Equipment. Under this
component two sets of items required for the works will be procured: (i) Bailey bridge sections
amounting to an extension of some 255 linear meters (lm)are being procured for rapid
reinstatement of bridge access. One Bailey bridge section (80T) that had been ordered at the
time of the June 2000 mission has been delivered and installed. The bridge sections would also
provide the needed capacity to MOPW-ID and RTCD for rapid response to emergency needs
requiring such bridge installation (ii) Two 4-wheel drive vehicles, and computers (7 no.) and
accessories for the MOPW-ID's management and supervision staff needs.
Part 5. Pre-constructionlnvestigations / Design and Construction Supervision. The
MOPW-ID expressed the need at appraisal for technical advisory services and consultant
support to manage the works program and to carry out pre-construction investigations
(including condition survey/inspection, design and contract documentation) and construction
supervision. This will comprise 48 person-months of technical advisory services (Highway
Design and Planning Engineer and Contract Implementation Specialist). In addition, MOPW-
ID will recruit local consultants to assist in carrying out these assignments. It is also expected
that Bailey bridge suppliers (e.g., Mabey) would provide expert supervision services during the
re-installation of such bridges, as required. In addition, MOPW-ID has firmed up proposals to
be presented to Government for MOPW-ID staffing reinstatement and strengthening to be
recruited from the professional and technical staff resources available in the country. The
services of a Social Scientist is also being acquired to assist in the supervision and monitoring
of the social impact of all operations and the public welfare elements of the program.
Table 6. Roads Component Costing Table (in million US$)
Indicative s
omponent                                                        Costs
A: Repair of war-destroyed bridges, and approaches              0.46
B: Construction of new access roads to serve new settlements    10.40
C: Construction of bridge and culverts; reshaping and widening of road    16.99
sections essential forensuring access to poor communities chronically
ffected by drought and famine
D: Procurement of Bailey Bridge Sections, vehicles, computers and  4.27
accessories
E: Pre-construction Investigations, Design, Construction SPN, and Social  3.85
mpact Monitoring; Technical Advisory Services
TOTAL                                                           35.96
V.  Infrastructure: Power
(US$ 25 million, of which IDA 15 million)
51.   Objective. The goal of this component is to rehabilitate existing power plants,
whose functioning is critical for the resumption of economic and social activities.
52.   Description.. The project will finance the rehabilitation of (i) the Massawa
Hirgigo power plant, which forms the back-bone of the Eritrean power system, supplying
17



a vast area comprising Asmara, Massawa, Mendefera, Keren and Dekemhare, and which
alone suffered an estimated US$ 18 million worth of damage during the recent conflict;
(ii) the replacement of power generators in Barentu and Tesseney, in Western Eritrea; and
(iii) repairs to the electrical power systems in Adi-Quala, Adi Keih, and Senafe.
53.   IDA contribution will only finance the rehabilitation of the Massawa Hirgigo
power plant. Damages to this power plant include:
*  132/66/15KV substation switchgear
*  local control rooms for diesel generators units N.3 and N. 4
*  cladding of the power house, south side
*  stacks for engines N. 1 and N. 2
*  minor damages to mechanical and electrical equipment and storage area
VI. Private Sector Reconstruction
(US$ 45 million, of which IDA US$ 30 million)
54.   Objective. The goal of this component is to jumpstart the private sector,
especially the formal private sector by providing relief to enterprises that have been
particularly affected by the conflict; and by making foreign exchange, which has been
particularly scarce, available through the banking system.
55.   Description. The Private Sector Reconstruction Component of ERP consists of
three parts:
Part 1: Support For Affected Enterprises (US$ 15 million, of which IDA US$ 10 million) to
enable Commercial Bank of Eritrea (CBE), Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea (HCBE)
and the Eritrea Development and Investment Bank (EDIB) to provide debt service relief to their
borrowers who are affected by the recent war with Ethiopia.
56.   Focus of SAE. The scope of SAE is confined to only those enterprises which had
borrowed funds from the three banks. With nearly one third of the country's population
reported to be displaced, it would take several months, and maybe years, to ascertain the
actual damage caused by the war. This would necessarily involve a laborious and time
consuming assessment of the losses incurred by individual borrowers, many of whom are
not currently traceable. Nor is it the intention of this component to compensate borrowers
for all their losses. Details obtained on the value of collateral for bank loans would
suggest that the assets of affected enterprises were at least twice the amount of loans that
were obtained by these enterprises. For instance, the aggregate investments in 47 affected
enterprises in the portfolio of EDIB was ERN 66.5 million, against which the total
outstanding loan balance was ERN 21.1 million as of June 30, 2000. The value of
collateral in respect of 350 loans to affected enterprises in HCBE's portfolio was twice
the amount of outstanding balance of ERN 24.97 million. It will take some time to obtain
similar details in respect of the 2,570 affected enterprises in CBE's portfolio, which had
an outstanding loan balance of ERN 289.48 million as of June 30, 2000. With the
prevalent emphasis on collateral of all banking institutions in Eritrea, it would be
surprising if the CBE portfolio is any different.
18



57.   Thus, while the assets owned (and presumably lost) by enterprises would be much
larger than the aggregate outstanding bank loans, SAE will only provide relief, by way of
total or partial debt forgiveness, total or partial waiver of accumulated interest, and in
cases where the damage is minimal, just a rescheduling of debt service payments. What is
done in each particular case would very much depend on the circumstances of that
particular case. Because of the banking practices in Eritrea, it is unlikely that the same
enterprise would figure as the client of more than one bank. However, to ensure a
harmonization of terms and to ensure that persons or firms in similar circumstances are
treated alike, it is proposed to set up a coordinating committee of the three banks. The
committee, consisting of the heads of credit departments, will meet periodically to
exchange information on procedures of each institution in providing financial relief to
affected customers.
58.   Financial Relief to affected Enterprises. To ascertain the extent of financial
relief that may be needed by affected enterprises, the three banks were asked to make
estimates of the following:
Category 1- Loans where the collateral assets have been fully or significantly destroyed;
Category 2- Loans where the damage to collateral assets is minimal, but the owners have been
killed or displaced or are not traceable; and
Category 3- Loans where the collateral assets are intact, owners are in place but the units are
not operating at full capacity because the workers have been mobilized by the military and are,
therefore, not available to operate the units.
Preliminary assessments indicate the following position:
Bank  Enterprises Category 1   Category 2   Category 3      Total
Number  --------------( ERN million )-------------------------
CBE    2570.0        206.37         19.66       67.89         293.92
HCBE    350.0           5.57         15.95       3.31          24.83
EIDB      47.0         6.59           0.87      13.65          21.11
For purposes of estimating the aggregate financial relief which the three banks may have to
extend to affected enterprises, the following assumptions were made:
Category 1: Total debt forgiveness
Category 2: Debt write off, on an average, of 75 percent of outstanding loan balance
Category 3: Waiver of interest, on an average, for 3 years ( 27 percent in all at 9 percent pa).
19



59.  In view of the large number of loan accounts in its portfolio, CBE will need
additional time to come up with such categorization. As nearly ERN 137 million of its
affected portfolio is for the agriculture sector, where the prospects of recovery of
outstanding loans are slim, it was assumed that CBE would have to extend financial relief
to the extent of 75 percent of the outstanding loan balance.
60.   As the purpose of SAE is to assist banks to extend financial relief to affected
enterprises, but not to bail out banks in respect of their non-performing assets before the
war, an exercise was undertaken to identify loan loss provisions pertaining to affected
enterprises as of December 31, 1999. Specific provisions already made in the balance
sheets of the banks were deducted from the estimates of relief that may be extended to the
enterprises. Where there were no specific provisions, approximate calculations were
made based on the proportion of affected portfolio to the total portfolio. The following
table indicates the financial assistance needed by the three banks to be able to provide the
envisaged relief to affected enterprises:
Bank    Affected    Amount of   Provision        Amount under
portfolio     relief    for bad debts    ERP
(ERN million)
CBE     293.92        239.45      70.20          169.25
HCBE    24.97          18.48       0.35           18.13
EIDB     21.11         10.92      0.28            10.64
Total   340.00        268.85      70.83          198.20
61.   These figures are based on estimates which will be finalized shortly. In the
meantime, it is proposed that the size of the SAE component is fixed at US$15 million;
and these funds would be made available by GOE to the three banks roughly as shown in
the table above, in the form of subordinated loans, with interest adjustments being made
depending on the actual financial relief extended by the banks to affected enterprises.
62.   Subordinated Loans. The SAE component will be implemented through
subordinated loans. There are several reasons for recommending that the funds under the
SAE component are passed on to the banks in the form of subordinated loans. The
objective of ERP is not to solve the long-term problem relating to the financial structure
of CBE and HCBE which are both under-capitalized. Subordinated debt, with a fixed
maturity profile, underscores the transitional nature of the assistance, while restoring the
financial resources needed by the banks to provide the debt service relief needed by their
customers affected by the war. Simultaneously, the terms of the subordinated debt are
structured in a way to make them eligible for inclusion as Tier 2 Capital as defined in the
draft guidelines on Capital Adequacy prepared by the Bank of Eritrea. HCBE is wholly
owned by a non-governmental source; and funds provided by GOE in the form of
subordinated debt would not alter the ownership structure. IDA will disburse SAE funds
to be in tranches: the first 25percent on loan effectiveness; and the remaining funds in
20



several tranches on receipt of quarterly diagnostic reports from each of the three banks
giving an up-to-date review of the affected portfolio, an estimate of the damages, and
details of the financial relief extended to affected enterprises. The banks will pay GOE
interest on subordinated debt at rates equivalent to 180 days Treasury Bills rate, so that
there is no burden on GOE finances. The subordinated debt will be paid by the banks in
20 years including a grace period of 10 years.
Part 2: A Loan Fund US$ 27 million, of which IDA US$ 18 million) to provide the
three banks with the resources needed to extend medium and long term loans to their
private sector clients.
63.   Focus of the Loan Fund. The objective of the Loan Fund is to increase the
supply of both foreign exchange and term financing to private sector enterprises in
Eritrea. By helping to alleviate the financial and foreign exchange constraints on these
enterprises, it is anticipated that many will be able to develop and grow and thus generate
production and employment. The Loan Fund is designed to increase the supply of term
funding at market rates to the banking system to enable them to meet the legitimate
investment needs of the private sector.
64.   The focus of the Loan will be mainly on the revival of private sector activity
which is very much affected by the war. The loan effectiveness conditions and eligibility
criteria will not include policy and institutional reforms in the financial sector. It has,
however, been ascertained during preparation of this operation that satisfactory progress
has been made in instituting such reforms.
65.   The Loan Fund will be channeled through the three banks, to finance the fixed
investment and permanent working capital needs of viable private enterprises including
associated training and consultancy services as needed. There will be no sectoral
limitation, except the customary negative list of prohibited activities such as tobacco,
firearms, real estate and mortgage transactions, and there will be no relaxation in
applying the appraisal standards to determine the viability of projects. In view of the
acute foreign exchange situation which Eritrea is facing, a priority for allocation of loan
funds would be the needs for import of machinery and components by existing
enterprises, and new enterprises which have the potential to earn or save hard currency.
66.   Size of the Loan Fund.   As regards the size of the Loan Fund, a quick review
of medium and long term credit demands by war affected enterprises, agriculture and
manufacturing sector would indicate a demand of around ERN 650 million over a two
year period, or roughly ERN 325 million annually. About 50percent of this demand is
estimated to be in hard currency. This would justify the size of the Loan Fund of US$27
million to meet the needs of the private sector. The underlying assumption is that the
remainder of the medium and term needs, particularly local currency needs, can be met
from domestic resources of the banking sector.
67.   Design of the Loan Fund. Although policy and institutional reforms are not the
focus of ERP, it has been ascertained that satisfactory progress has been achieved in
many key areas. The central bank has drafted guidelines on capital adequacy ratio and
loan classification. CBE and EDIB have both prepared draft strategic plans and HCBE is
21



currently engaged in such an exercise. Both CBE and HCBE have satisfactory
arrangements for external audit. In fact, KPMG, which is the auditor of CBE, has assisted
the bank in a thorough evaluation of the portfolio, and as a result, CBE's financial
statements for December 1999 are expected to make an adequate provision for bad and
doubtful debts. EDIB has a strong capital adequacy ratio (40 percent). The ratios of CBE
and HCBE were 7.0 percent and 3.9 percent as of June 2000. These are expected to
improve somewhat, after the infusion of Tier 2 capital by the end of 2000. These ratios
are tolerable, given the current adverse circumstances. It should, however, be made clear
to GOE, Bank of Eritrea and the three banks that access to the Loan Fund under the ERP
would not automatically lead to eligibility under future Bank operations. To be eligible,
the banks would have to demonstrate that they satisfy all the CAMEL criteria for
creditworthiness and that they are in full compliance with all central bank prudential
guidelines.
68.   Operating Procedures of the Loan Fund. The important features of the on-
lending arrangements for the Loan Fund are as follows:
69.   Foreign exchange risks to be borne by GOE. Loans to banks will be denominated
in local currency, as will the loans to sub-borrowers. However, the sub-borrowers will
have automatic access to foreign exchange for imports, up to the limits of sub-loans.
70.   Banks will be charged an interest rate based on the marginal cost of funding
within the banking system, as determined by the Bank of Eritrea. The banks would be
free to charge a rate, fixed or variable, depending on the costs and risks involved.
71.   Banks will receive loans for 10 years. In turn, they would be free to determine the
maturity of sub-loans, in a 4-10 year range, depending on the cash flow needs of the sub-
projects. Most loans are expected to be between 4-5 years and banks will be allowed to
revolve these funds.
72.   The maximum amount of a loan to a single project will not exceed ERN 15
million. This limit can be exceeded only with a no-objection from the Governor of the
Bank of Eritrea and IDA. The maximum exposure of a bank in a single enterprise
(including all types of loans, advances and credit facilities granted to the enterprise and
all related enterprises) will be governed by the Prudential Exposure Limits in Bank of
Eritrea Proclamation.
73.   The Loan Fund will be tranched. Before IDA approves the first tranche of the
Loan Fund, each Participating Financial Institution (PFI) will be required to sign a
Participation Agreement with the Bank of Eritrea. Each bank will also be required to
submit a medium-term strategic plan outlining, among others, operational goals,
recruitment of staff and staff development, profitability, quality of portfolio and financial
condition. This will permit the PFIs to access up to US$9 million (the first trench) from
the Fund. Progress will be reviewed six months after effectiveness and the review will
assess the compliance of each of the PFIs with the prudential guidelines of BE and the
PFI's plan. Access to the second trench of US$9 million will depend upon satisfactory
compliance by each PFI with their strategic plan - whether or not the PFI participated in
22



the utilization of the first trench of funding. The third and final trench of $9 million will
be available one year after effectiveness, pending satisfactory progress.
74.   Disbursement from the PSR Unit will be made to PFIs on the same basis as funds
are made available by the PFIs to the sub-projects. However, once these funds have been
made available to each PFI, they can be reused for subsequent longer-term lending as
required (although subsequent access to foreign exchange will be constrained by the
central bank's capacity to provide foreign exchange to longer-term investors). Repayment
to the PSR Unit in the Bank of Eritrea will be based upon a ten-year repayment schedule
from the PFI based on equal monthly payments (with an initial blanket two-year grace
period during which interest, but not principal, will be paid), as agreed with the central
bank. Subsequent repayments from the central bank to the Government will be based
upon a 15-year repayment schedule.
75.   The Loan Fund will be managed by the PSR Unit in the Bank of Eritrea, and
managed by PFIs at sub-borrower level. The Bank of Eritrea will sign a Participation
Agreement with each PFI.
23



Guidelines on Policies and Operating Procedures for Investment Fund
OPERtATING CHARACTERISTIC UIDELINES
PSR Unit Administration             To be housed within the Bank of Eritrea and supervised by expert to
be recruited on bank supervision.
Interest Rate Charged by the BE to PFIs Funds will be provided to the PFIs from the Bank of Eritrea (BE) at the
marginal cost of funding within the banking system, and maintained at
positive real levels. This rate will be reviewed by the BE.
Interest Rate Charged by PFIs to sub-borr PFIs would be free to charge an interest rate, fixed or variable, on
sub-loans commensurate with the costs and risks involved.
Interest Rate Review Mechanism      The interest rate mechanisms described above will be reviewed
periodically and adjusted as appropriate to ensure that deposit and
lending rates remain positive in real terms.
Currency of Sub-loans               Commitments, disbursements and repayments would be in Eritrean nakfa -
but the sub-boffowers would have automatic access to foreign exchange for
imports. Withdrawal applications from the Special Account would be
made in the US$ equivalent of the Eritrean nakfa amount.
Maturity of Sub-loans                Loan terms on investment lending would be determined by the banks
but will generally be between 4 to 10 years - with most lending between
4 to 5 years. The PSR Unit would be required to provide funding for a ten
year period to each PFI. In exceptional circumstances, such as the
construction of industrial estates, loans from the Unit and the PFI's can
range up to 15 years maturity.
Grace Period                        Grace periods will be determined by the commercial banks in conformity
with the projected cash flow of the sub-projects. The grace period (on
principal only) to the PFIs from the Bank of Eritrea would be a standard
two years on all loans made.
Maximum Sub-loan Size               The maximum amount of a loan to a single project will not exceed ERN
15 million. This limit can be exceeded only with a no-objection from the
Governor of the Bank of Eritrea and IDA, Maximum loan to a single
borrower or related group of borrowers would be determined by the
Financial Institutions Act.
Viability of Projects               The viability of the projects will be determined by the PFI making the
oan. Sub-project viability will not be subject to review by the central
bank's PSR Unit.
Minimum Contribution by Sub-Borrower As determined by the financial intermediary.
Request for Funds                   PFIs request for funding to the PSR Unit would be in summary form
providing data on the name, size, location and sector of the firm and
nature of the sub-project, level of financing and the names of all
principals. Detailed financial data would not be included.
24



Eligible Sectors                   Finance will be made available to all sectors of the economy for any
ommercially oriented private enterprise, of any size, that will create
alue added within the economy. However, tobacco, firearms, and
residential real estate are on a negative list.
Eligible Expenditures              Finance will be provided for both working capital and fixed investment.
Refmancing of existing sub-loans would not be eligible except in
xceptional circumstances. Sub-borrowers with non-performing loans in
any financial institution would not be granted loans under the Project.
Ex-post review                     All reviews by the PSR Unit and by IDA would be on an ex-post basis.
Any projects not processed in conformity with the criteria of eligible sectors
would be re-financed by the PFI from their own funds in foreign exchange.
udit Requirements                 Loan Fund Account audited annually as part of the whole Project audits;
PFIs must submit audits annually to the PSR Unit;
Statement of Expenditures of PFIs subject to random audits;
Random ex-post reviews conducted on individual sub-loans to ensure
ompliance with disbursement requirements; the 1999 accounts and all
ubsequent annual audited financial statements should be made available
within no more than six months after the end of the financial year.
Procurement                         ocurement of sub-loan projects follows private sector commercial
ractices.
Disbursement                       n accordance with the submission of subproject documentation (kept by
he PFI) and a Statement of Expenditure submitted by the PFI to the PSR
_          ~~~~Unit.
Sub-Project Documentation          Each sub-project would be required to submit to the PFI a project
ummary containing the following information: (i) Name and address of
borrower; (ii) sector of firm; (iii) number of employees; (iv) financial
statements acceptable to PFI; (v) description of financing and subproject;
and (vi) maturity and term of financing.
Early Warning System               The PFI would also be expected to report material changes in any of the
above information. In addition, the PFI would be expected to provide
monthly information on loan performance - repayments and/or non-
repayments of principal and/or interest - to the Bank of Eritrea. On a six
monthly basis, the PFIs would be expected to provide a short write up on
any non-performing, or poorly performing, credits. This report should
identify any issues which may have impacted the viability of the
operation and hence the repayment of the loan. Where problems are
dentified with particular projects, the PFI would be expected to develop
a remedial action plan which would be provided to the PSR Unit and the
World Bank.
Technical Assistance               Should the consultants envisaged under the TA component for the PFIs
not be in place within three months of loan effectiveness, the Government
and IDA would jointly review the eligibility of the PFI in the Loan Fund.
Environment                        Environmental Assessment for each sub-loan will follow the Impact
Assessment Guidelines issued by the Department of the Environment
under the Ministry of Land, Water and the Environment.
25



Part 3: A Technical Assistance Program (US $3 million, of which IDA US$ 2 million) to
strengthen the supervision, auditing and accounting function of Bank of Eritrea; and the project
appraisal/credit assessment capacity of CBE and HCBE.
76.   The Need for Technical Assistance. The successful implementation of the Loan
Fund would depend on the ability of the three banks to allocate credit to enterprises based
on a critical assessment of long term credit risks; and the ability of the Bank of Eritrea to
exercise its prudential control over the banking institutions which it is supposed to
regulate. Because of historical circumstances, none of these institutions has been able to
acquire, in sufficient numbers, managerial staff with the requisite competence, experience
and judgement. A temporary solution would be to install a team of advisers who could
give a helping hand to the senior managers of the banking institutions in preparing
operational manuals and installing procedures in the short term, and instituting a system
of on-the-job training when the situation becomes normal. In this context, it is highly
desirable that all the elements included in the Financial Sector Capacity Building
component of PSR are brought forward, with minor modifications, under the Private
Sector Reconstruction component of ERP.
77.  Scope of the TA Program. The essential elements of the Technical Assistance
Program in the current operation would include the following:
78.  For Bank of Eritrea: (a) One expert for 12 months to draft and issue banking
regulations; (b) Bank supervision expert for 2 years to provide on the job training.
79.   For CBE: (a) One senior Operational Advisor, who can draft operational policies
and procedures for all activities other than credit supervision, for 18 months,(b) One
senior Credit Specialist and two experts in project appraisal/credit analysis for 18 months;
(c) One expert in international banking for 18 months; and (d) One MIS/Computer
systems expert for 18 months.
80.   For HCBE: One senior Credit Specialist and one project appraisal/credit analysis
expert for 12 months.
81.   For EDIB: One Senior Operations Advisor for 18 months.
VII. Social Protection
(US$ 41 million, of which IDA 8.5 million)
82.   Objectives. The social protection component of the ERP aims to target the
urgent social and economic needs of vulnerable households and poor communities, and
help them recover from the consequences of both war and draught. The component
specifically addresses the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure in those rural areas most
affected by the fighting, and the rapid improvement of employment prospects and
income-generating capacity of small affected business and individuals.
83.   Description. The Social Protection component of ERP will achieve its intended
objectives by financing three sub-components:
26



A. Replenishing the existing Eritrea Community Development Fund (ECDF), in particular
its two sub-components:
(i) Basic social infrastructure (US$ 21 million, of which IDA 6.5)
(ii) Micro-Credit component (US$ 2 million, IDA 2 million).
84.   Rationale. In order to respond to the dramatic humanitarian crisis affecting
Eritrea since May 2000, the Bank acted quickly to provide immediate assistance to the
Government, by reallocating funds from its existing portfolio towards those areas of
highest priority. While remaining in line with the project's overall development
objectives, US$ 3.7 million equivalent were immediately reallocated from the ongoing
ECDF project - IDA Cr. 28230 - in order to finance emergency water supply and
sanitation sub-projects in poor areas with high concentrations of IDPs.
85.   ECDF's targeted beneficiaries are precisely those rural communities that are most
heavily suffering the consequences of war and drought. It was therefore envisaged that
channeling new resources through ECDF would be the most effective way to timely
address the plight of these vulnerable groups. ECDF already has the knowledge and the
proven capacity to successfully implement communities sub-projects, let alone
substantial experience with World Bank's procedures.
86.   Background. The first Eritrea Community Rehabilitation Fund was established as
a pilot within the first Recovery and Rehabilitation Program for Eritrea, to test the
effectiveness of community-driven mechanisms in improving the economic and social
conditions of people living in the poorest and most devastated areas of the country. Upon
satisfactory completion of the pilot phase, in 1996 the expanded Eritrea Community
Development Fund (ECDF) was approved, for a period of five years. The first phase of
ECDF will eventually reach completion in FY2002 (closing date December 31, 2001). At
this stage, already 87 percent of the loan has been disbursed. Hence, due to its successful
impact and performance, the Government of Eritrea has expressed its support for
extending ECDF beyond its current phase. Its two main sub-components (basic
infrastructure and micro-credit) will be both incorporated in a broader Community
Development Project (CDP), currently under preparation. In the interim period until CDP
is effective, the ERP will therefore provide an important source of bridge financing for
ECDF.
87.   Objectives. ECDF's objective is to finance community-driven sub-projects which
will: (i) support the rehabilitation and development of basic social and economic
infrastructure (health centers, schools, market places, water supplies etc.), while fostering
community participation in the design, implementation, and maintenance of these
infrastructures; (ii) improve the income-generating capacity of poor people and
households, while contributing to the broadening of Eritrea's financial institutions; and
(iii) create local capacity among communities to identify their own development needs
and priorities, manage project implementation, and maintain their assets, in line with the
Government's overall decentralization strategy.
88.   Description. The ECDF is a demand-driven program, financing selected sub-
projects which have been identified and requested by poor local communities. ECDF
regional offices appraise sub-projects applications on the basis of their sustainability,
27



their economic and social return, their environmental impact, and their consistency with
the Government's sectoral development strategies. The ECDF does not directly
implement projects. Rather, it supports the efforts of local communities by providing
technical guidance and expertise in project management and implementation.
89.   ECDF has two main components:
(i) Social and economic infrastructure and services. ECDF finances economic and social
infrastructure sub-projects in the following categories: primary health (e.g. health
stations, health centers and health posts); basic education (e.g. primary and junior
secondary schools); rural water supply (e.g. safe water bore-holes and wells); soil, water
and forestry conservation; and rural feeder roads. For each of these categories, ECDF
supports the rehabilitation, expansion and construction of facilities, as well as furniture,
equipment and some training costs. In order to strengthen ownership, communities are
requested to provide at least a 10 percent contribution to the project implementation costs
(either in kind, in cash or in labor). ECDF includes a number of capacity building
activities. These mainly consist of technical training programs for ECDF staff, Ministry
of Local Government staff and sector Ministry staff, and local communities, to ensure the
effective implementation, and long-term sustainability of Fund activities.
(ii) The Micro-Credit Component This program provides access to small credit to
individuals/groups living in the poor rural areas. There are two windows of credit under this
scheme: (i) the Village Banks Savings and Credit program provides loans to individuals up to
US$ 1,000, repayable over two years, and currently operates in 5 regions. The loan is agreed on
the condition that the borrower has a proven savings record of at least three months. Borrowers
are asked to get together into solidarity groups. In this system, each group member is
responsible for the repayment of loans defaulted on by other group members, while no member
is given access to new credit until all loans have been repaid. (ii) the Tier-Two program
provides up to US$ 10,000 loans to small enterprises, upon condition that the borrowed money
is invested in profitable projects benefiting the entire community.
90.   Activities to be financed under the ERP. In light of the latest emergency, the
replenished funds going to ECDF will be used to finance the following set of activities
under sub-components (i) and (ii), including technical assistance and capacity building
related to both activities.
(i) Basic Social Infrastructure. ECDF, in consultation with the relevant line Ministries, will
be the implementing agency directly responsible for the reconstruction of all basic social
infrastructure in the war-affected areas. The reconstruction plan prepared by ECDF reflects the
Government's official Damage Assessment report. It includes:
*  Education. rehabilitation and refurbishment of schools in the Gash Barka and Debub
region, the construction of makeshift classrooms, a teachers training center, and the
provision of schools supplies.
*  Health: health facilities in affected areas.
*  Access Roads: rehabilitation of small feeder roads in areas serving refugee camps and
returnee locations - Debub, Semeinawi, and Gash Barka.
*  Water Supply: construction of three water supply schemes in the Debub area - Adi Keith,
Segheneiti, and Dibarwa - which have recently received considerable influxes of deportees
28



from Ethiopia, and have been stricken by low rains. Besides financing drilling and civil
works, the allocation will cover the costs of a geo-physical survey and equipment.
(ii) The Micro-Credit Program.
*  The Village Banks Savings and Credit Program. In the first emergency phase (FY01), Tier
One will be refinanced so that 16 Village Banks will be created in addition to the existing
86 - 3 will be in the Gash Barka and 10 in the Debub region. Subsequently (FY 2002), an
additional 35 Village Banks will be established across all regions. The total projected
number of new Tier I beneficiaries by then would be 1750 people, bringing the total number
of Tier I beneficiaries to 4,369.
*  The Tier Two Credit Program . This Program will also be refinanced so as to benefit an
additional 169 clients by the end of FY02, bringing the total number of beneficiaries of Tier
lI to 272.
*  B. Housing Program (US$10 million, no IDA financing). Many households lost
their houses and all their belongings during the war. The project will provide
materials to subsidize the cost of rebuilding the houses of approximately 20,000 poor
households. Special attention will be given to ensure that the process of rebuilding
houses does not have a negative impact on the already poor natural resource base of
the country. In this respect alternative options for provision and distribution of
materials, or construction of houses, are being considered and will be tested, initially
on a pilot basis. The Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) will be responsible for
overall coordination, implementation and monitoring of this component. A special
unit within MOLG (ERP Desk) will be responsible for designing suitable housing
prototypes which respect different cultural and environmental situations. MOLG
regional and sub-regional offices will be responsible for identifying beneficiaries in
each affected area, and mobilizing communities in the rebuilding process.
  C. Safety Nets Program (US$8 Million, no IDA financing). This component will
include the financing of various traditional safety nets, to be implemented at the
community level. These may include cash transfers (grants) to households
particularly affected by the war, which will be identified on the basis of a set of
eligibility criteria established by the GOE. Such grants will be repayable in two
yearly installments without interests. However, other approaches, such as cash for
work schemes, will also be considered, depending on their regional suitability. The
regional offices of the MOLG, in cooperation with sub-regional and village
administration offices, will be responsible for setting eligibility criteria, identifying
beneficiaries, implementing and monitoring the program.
Table 7. Social Protection Component- IDA financing (US$ 8.5 million)
Program Costing     IDA Financing
ECDF                         23                  8.5
Basic Infrastructure         21                  6.5
Micro-Credit                 2                   2
Housing                      10                  0
Safety nets                  8                   0
29



D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATION
1.   Program Implementation Period
91.   The implementation timeframe for the Program will be two years (December
2000 - December 2002).
II.  Program Implementation and Coordination.
92.   The Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP) will be coordinated by a
Program Management Unit (PMU) established within the Ministry of Finance. The PMU
will be responsible for overall program management, including ensuring that financial
management and reporting procedures will be acceptable to the government, the Bank
and other cooperating partners. A PMU Manager, a Finance Officer and Procurement
Officer have already been appointed. They would form the core team of the PMU. A
Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the Director General, Ministry of Local
Government and consisting of Director Generals of all implementing sector ministries
will oversee implementation of the program and make policy decisions on issues related
to implementation effectiveness.
93.   The actual implementation of individual components will be the responsibility of
the relevant line ministries or government agencies, in particular: Ministry of Agriculture
(agriculture), Ministry of Energy (energy), Ministry of Public Works (road and bridge
rehabilitation), Ministry of Local Government (ECDF, traditional safety nets and
housing), Ministry of Finance (BOP support), and the Bank of Eritrea (private sector
reconstruction).
94.   The establishment of successful mechanisms to coordinate inputs and
contributions being provided by different development partners will be key to the success
of the project. The Government stressed the importance of adopting harmonized
procedures for procurement, financial management, and reporting. A meeting with all
concerned development partners was convened during the appraisal mission to agree on
common implementation procedures.
III. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
95.   Procurement. Particular care has been given to procurement arrangements under
the program, in order to assure an immediate but transparent response to the emergency
situation. Implementation will have to be fast, efficient and transparent throughout the
program and, for that purpose, a "Manual ofprocurement procedures under ERP" has
been drafted by the Borrower in coordination with the Bank. The manual, which will be
adopted by other Participating Partners (PPs), thus allowing harmonization of
procurement procedures, incorporates a wide range of procurement methods which will
be used for the procurement of commodities, goods, works and consulting services.
Under ERP, most of the procurement methods will not be subject to specific monetary
thresholds, giving the borrower the option to choose the most suitable procurement
30



method for any given case and use easily accessible procedures such as (i) national
regulations (previously reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable) for works and
procurement of locally manufactured goods; (ii) commercial practices, mostly for the
procurement of food and agricultural commodities both from the intemational and
national markets, and (iii) simplified ICB, LIB and international shopping for the
procurement of goods manufactured abroad. Bid document clauses concerning advance
payment, price adjustment and currency have been upgraded, in line with Bank
Procurement Guidelines, to facilitate the mobilization of national contractors. Emergency
procurement methods such as direct contracting, force account, auction purchase and sole
source will be used whenever immediate procurement action will be necessary such as
for rehabilitation of bailey bridges destroyed during the recent war, emergency water
supply /sanitation for overcrowded border towns and camps; and for local breeds of
livestock. In the case of consulting assignments, national procedures consistent with IDA
guidelines will be used. Most of the short-term assignments will be awarded using
shortlists of national consultants and the "Qualifications" selection method. "Quality and
Cost" based selection will be limited to long-term, time-based assignments and
recruitment of international firms. Finally, emergency procurement for immediate needs
and rehabilitation, for an amount of US$35 million is already under way and will be
subject to retroactive financing. Prior review by the Bank will be limited to higher cost
contracts (more than US$3 million for both goods and works) procured through
simplified ICB and consulting contracts (for firms) above the threshold of US$300,000,
in addition to all TORs and to the scheduling of procurement activities under the
program. Audit of the procurement actions will be carried out at regular intervals by both
internal and external auditors in addition to Bank/PPs' procurement and disbursement
audits.
96.   Disbursement. The credit will finance 100 percent of:(i) foreign expenditures
and ex-factory prices (ii) foreign and local consultant services (iii) Loans and Sub-loans
under the Private sector Reconstruction Component (iv) Micro-credit sub-loans under the
Social Protection Component. The credit will finance 95 percent of all other local
expenditures. The disbursement schedule will be as follows: 45 percent of the credit is
expected to be disbursed during FY01 (including 35 percent retroactive financing); 40
percent is expected to be disbursed during FY02; and the remaining 15 percent during
FY03.
IV. Financial Management, Auditing and Reporting
97.   Financial Management. The PMU, under the direction of the Finance Officer,
would maintain records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures of the program. The Unit will set up
and maintain a program-specific accounting and financial management system adequate
to provide complete, accurate and timely information regarding program resources and
expenditures. Agreement has been obtained from all the implementing partners to
harmonize the financial reporting for the program; in this regard, a quarterly progress
report will be distributed to all the implementing agencies as part of program monitoring.
A financial management specialist has conducted an assessment during the program
appraisal mission. His findings confirm government's preference for a harmonized
system.
31



98.   Auditing. The accounts of the program will be audited annually in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied. Agreement has been obtained to
prepare a consolidated annual report to satisfy the requirements of all the implementing
partners. In addition to the audit reports, the auditors will also prepare a Management
Letter giving comments and observations, and make recommendations for improvements
on accounting records, systems, controls, and compliance with financial covenants.
99.   Retroactive Financing. Retroactive Financing refers to the Credit amount which
the Bank agrees to reimburse to the Borrower for expenditures incurred during a certain
period prior to the date of Credit effectiveness. World Bank guidelines for Emergency
Loans limit the amount eligible for Retroactive Financing to 20 percent. However, given
the particular circumstances in Eritrea, and the need for the Government to intervene
immediately in some critical areas - e.g. roads and bridges rehabilitation - Wold Bank
management has agreed to an exceptionally high share of the IDA Credit being eligible
for retroactive financing, i.e. up to 35 percent of IDA Credit. Under this provision, the
Government will be able to be reimbursed for urgent expenses which it has incurred since
May 31 st, 2000.
100.  Special Account. The Program will have three Special Accounts, one managed
by ECDF to allow continuation of its activities; one managed by the Bank of Eritrea for
the Private Sector Reconstruction component; and one managed by the PMU for all other
components, as well as overall coordination. These Special Accounts would be operated
in accordance with the Bank's operational guidelines.
V.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation
101.  Monitoring of the progress in implementing the ERP will be carried out through a
computerized MIS established in the PMU. The MIS will provide the baseline
information for quarterly and annual financial and activity reports.
102.  Since the ERP is such a large and critical investment, evaluating its impact on the
beneficiaries will also be a priority. This process will have two stages:
*  The first stage will be to produce baseline data on welfare of the population. A
baseline household survey is planned to be conducted before services are delivered to
communities, as well as a follow-up survey of the same households a year after
service delivery. A rapid review of the data is expected to inform the operation of the
project, and a deeper analysis of the data will guide policy makers The first survey
will be a core welfare monitoring survey of the Core Welfare Indicators
Questionnaire (CWIQ) type. This ideally should be done immediately after project
effectiveness. However, the second survey should be of the Priority or Household
Budget type, with repeat visits to the households.
* The second stage involves regular project monitoring as well as beneficiary
assessments.
103.  The implementation of the Surveys will be coordinated by the University of
Asmara, which has already developed sufficient capacity to carry out this type of activity.
32



The evaluation of ERP impact will be done through beneficiary impact assessments
carried out by external institutions. Coordination of the whole M/E component will be
done through the ERP Steering Committee, which will share the results with
representatives of Government institutions and donor agencies.
VI. Donor Coordination
104. The establishment of successful mechanisms to coordinate inputs and
contributions being provided by different development partners will be key to the success
of the ERP. Donor coordination for this Program will be achieved through two main
provisions. First, to facilitate the achievement of this objectives, the government stressed
the importance of adopting harmonized procedures in terms of procurement, financial
management requirements, and reporting requirements. A meeting with all concerned
development partners was held during the appraisal mission to discuss these issues, and a
manual with harmonized procurement procedures has been produced with inputs
provided from donor agencies representatives. Second, donor coordination will be
sustained throughout the Program by a strategy of joint supervision missions.
VII. Environmental Aspects
105.  The program is classified as environmental category B because no component is
expected to have a significant environmental impact. No major new construction is
envisaged besides reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-damaged roads, bridges,
buildings, small-scale irrigation systems, power transmission lines and community
infrastructure. An Environmental Analysis of the whole Program will be carried out and
completed no later than six months after the date of effectiveness. Terms of Reference for
the Analysis have been agreed upon during appraisal.
33



E. ACTION PLAN
Action Agreed                               Responsible Agency  Date
Appointment of a Finance Officer in the PMU    Ministry of Finance  October 10, 2000 (Negotiations)
satisfactory to IDA;
Submission to IDA   of a draft Procurement All implementing         October 10, 2000 (Negotiations)
Procedures manual;                          agencies
Submission of drafts for (a) Subsidiary     World Bank (?)          October 10, 2000 (Negotiations)
Agreement between Bank of Eritrea and Goverm
of Eritrea; (b) Project Agreement between World
and Bank of Eritrea; and (c) Participation Agreen
between Bank of
Eritrea and participating financial institutions.
Submission to  IDA  of a draft Financial  PMU                       December 1, 2000 (Effectiveness)
Management Procedures Manual;
Appointment of external auditors on terms of PMU                    December 1, 2000 (Effectiveness)
reference agreed upon with IDA;
Opening a Special Account in accordance with                        December 1, 2000 (Effectiveness)
Bank requirements;
Signing the (a) Subsidiary Agreement        Bank of Eritrea/        December 1, 2000 (Effectiveness)
between Bank of Eritrea and Government of   World Bank/ PFIs
Eritrea; (b) Project Agreement between World B
and Bank of Eritrea; and (c) Participation Agreent
between Bank of Eritrea and participating fnancia
institutions.
Establishment of a PSR unit in the BE with  Bank of Eritrea         Disbursement (date)
staffing arrangements satisfactory to IDA; (ii)
completion of a PIP satisfactory to IDA.
Preparation of an Environmental Analysis for                        June 1, 2001 (six months after
The Program.                                PMU                     effectiveness)
34



Attachment I
ERITREA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
MANUAL OF PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
October 23, 2000



ACRONYMS
CBE                                   Commercial Bank of Eritrea
CP                    -               Community Participation
CQ                                    Selection by Qualifications (Consultants)
DC                    -               Direct Contracting (Sole Source)
ECDF                  -               Eritrea Community Development Fund
EDIP                                  Eritrea Development and Investment bank
ERP                   -               Emergency Reconstruction Program
FA                    -               Force Account
HCBE                                  Housing and Commerce bank of Eritrea
IAPSO                 -               U.N. Procurement Services Office
ICB                   -               International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   -               International Development Association
is                    -               International Shopping
LIB                   -               Limited International Bidding
LMs                   -               Line Ministries
MOA                   -               Ministry of Agriculture
MOE                   -               Ministry of Energy
MOPW                  -               Ministry of Public Works
NCB                   -               National Competitive Bidding
NS                    -               National Shopping
PMU                   -               Program Management Unit
PP                    -               Participating Partners (Donors)
QCBS                  -               Quality Cost Based Selection (Consultants)
QP                    -               Price Quotations (Works)
RTCD                  -               Road Transport Construction Department



ERITREA: EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
MANUAL OF PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pages
1.   SCOPE OF THE PROGRAM .......................................5
II.   ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PMU .......................................5
111. PROCUREMENT SCHEDULING AND PROCESSING                                           .2
IV. PROCUREMENT PACKAGING AND METHODS                                             .2
1. Procurement of Goods                                       .3
International Purchases                                    .3
National Purchases                                       .4
2. Procurement of Works                                       .5
3. Consultant Services                                       .6
V. REVIEW BY IDAIPPS OF PROCUREMENT DECISIONS                                          .8
VI. ERP PROCUREMENT PLANS                                              .9
Component A (Agriculture)                                    .9
Component B/I (Infrastructure) .13
Component B/2 (Power)                                      .15
Component C (Private Sector Development) .16
Component D (Social Protection) .17
Annex 1.18
Example of "commercial practices" used by national procurement agent .18
Annex 2.19
Examples of Bid Documents to be used under ERP .19
Annex 3.20
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) .20
Annex 4.21
Standard Documentation for Procurement of Goods .21
PHOTOGRAPHS .27






I. SCOPE OF THE PROGRAM
The Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP) will include procurement under the
following components:
(A) Agriculture
Purchase and distribution of seeds, fertilizers, agricultural tools, tractors and machinery and
livestock. The agricultural inputs will be given to war and drought-affected people to enable them
to resume agricultural and livestock production.
(B) Infrastructure Rehabilitation:
*  Roads sector: (i) reconstruction of roads and bridges damaged during the conflict, such as the
Tesseney Gash, Dassie-Agwaro and Kuluku bridges, and 255 linear meters of bailey bridge
sections; (ii) rehabilitation, upgrading and reshaping of links to provide improved access to
settlements and camps of displaced people; (iii) construction of bridges and culverts , and
reshaping of road sections to improve access to communities affected by drought and famine;
and (iv) pre-construction studies, design work and construction supervision.
-  Energy sector: rehabilitation of the Massawa power plant destroyed during the recent war;
replacement of power generators in Barentu and Tesseney; repairs to the electrical power
systems in Adi-Quala and Senafe.
(C) Private Sector Development: Assistance to Eritrean Banks whose portfolio has been
affected by the destruction of assets financed by loans and in the form of (i) debt relief; (ii) loan
fund; and (iii) TA.
(D) Social Protection: Assistance to households through: replenishing the ECDF to support basic
rehabilitation of social infrastructure at community level and micro-credit scheme; housing
programs through provision of materials for rebuilding houses; and safety net program.
(E) Balance of payment support: financing the purchase of equipment and commodities on a
positive list of imports needed for reconstruction and rehabilitation.
In addition, monitoring and evaluation and program management may require TA and
purchase of basic equipment.
II. ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PMU
The Program will be coordinated by a small Program Management Unit (PMU) housed in
the Ministry of Finance. The team includes three experienced professionals (the Program Manager,
a procurement adviser and a financial officer) who will coordinate with line ministries and other
government agencies. Additional people may be added depending on the magnitude of the work.
Under the guidance of the Program Manager, the team will manage and coordinate the procurement
and financial management activities under the ERP. The actual implementation of the individual



components of the Program will be the responsibilities of the relevant line Ministries or
government agencies such as: the Ministry of Agriculture (agricultural items and commodities); the
Ministry of Energy and Mines (power sector), the Ministry of Public Works (roads and other civil
works), the Ministry of Local Government (ECDF housing and safety nets, Ministry of Finance
(BOP support), and Bank of Eritrea (private sector development). Experienced Trading firms may
be used as procurement agents for bulk import of the commodities needed for the Program.
III. PROCUREMENT SCHEDULING AND PROCESSING
The line ministries (LM) will make use of the already established implementation units
under present Bank/PPs financed projects. In addition to implementation, they will be fully
responsible for the technical quality, contractual management and accountability of their purchases
and contracts. The LM units will include at least one experienced procurement officer and will
carry out the following preliminary actions at the inception of the Program:
(i) action plan for their procurement activities for the full ERP 24-month period;
(ii) complete list of items and procurement activities, and their cumulative cost;
(iii) packaging of items and services by region/timing/method of procurement;
(iv) list of high priority items or activities and critical path procurement schedule;
(v) list of training and consulting needs, their schedule and status;
(vi) monthly report on activities (goods, works, services, consulting); and
(vii) drafting of specification, TORs and advertising (where required) of contracts.
Coordination meetings between the management / procurement officers of each line
ministries implementation units and PMU will be held at the PMU office monthly. Procurement
and finance officers may carry out additional meetings for technical coordination, training and
scheduling of activities. The PMU manager will make sure that each of the line ministries involved
in the Program will attend the meetings, be kept fully informed and will report on their activities.
At least 3 copies of this Manual will be distributed to each of the line ministries and agencies
responsible for the implementation of ERP.
IV. PROCUREMENT PACKAGING AND METHODS
Procurement under ERP will take into account the situation of emergency in the country and
the needs for prompt, in some cases immediate, action in the re-establishment of vital services such
as water supply and sanitation and the need to supply relief to a very high number of displaced and
deported persons. The procurement methods and relative monetary thresholds selected have been
chosen as the most economic and efficient under the circumstances. In addition, in order to comply
with the principles of transparency, efficiency and competition, both Procurement Program and
procurement methods were subject to prior review and approved by the Bank and Participating
Partners. Procurement methods and schedules, timing of intervention and delivery were planned
and discussed with the Bank Lead Procurement specialist and task managers of each sector during
several coordination meetings. Different options have been offered for the procurement of vital
supplies based on the availability of goods and suppliers, speed of delivery, maximized competition
and local situation. The immediate emergency includes a first stage of about nine months from the
cessation of hostilities, for which fast track procurement methods will be used. Transparency of the
2



process will be assured at all times both by the proven record of the implementing agencies and by
the insertion of strategic procurement and financial controls at (i) regional and central line
ministries level, and (ii) PMU level and Bank/PPs levels. Audit of the procurement actions will be
carried out at regular intervals by both internal and external auditors in addition to Bank/PPs
procurement and disbursement audits.
1. PROCUREMENT OF GOODS
Goods to be procured under the ERP include commodities such as seeds, fertilizers and
livestock; equipment such as agricultural tools, machinery, office equipment and electrical spare
parts; transport and work vehicles such as tractors and motorcycles; plant such as power generators
and bailey bridges, and construction materials. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be
published at program inception by each of the implementing agencies (or cumulatively by the
PMU) to indicate business opportunities under ERP and give international suppliers the
opportunity to indicate their interest to bid under the Program.
International Purchases
1.1 Modified International Competitive Bidding (MCB)
Given the need for immediate availability of goods and unsuitable packaging, ICB with
modified advertising and currency provisions will be used only for packages whose delivery can be
scheduled towards the second part of the Program. Once the contracts to be procured will be
identified, ICB procedures will follow section 2.64 of the IDA's Guidelines on Procurement under
IRBD loans and IDA credits, January 1995 edition, revised January 1999. In particular, specific
procurement notices shall be inserted in at least one national newspaper of wide circulation, in
addition to a newspaper, periodical or technical journal of wide multinational circulation. The
period allowed for the submission of bids will be reduced to 4 weeks only. Bidding and payment
may be limited to one currency widely used in international trade such as the USD or the EURO.
1.2  Limited International Bidding (LIB)
LIB will be used in alternative to other methods such as modified ICB, international
shopping and commodities market, for large packages of goods obtainable only from abroad and
whose delivery is expected in the first part of the Program. The line agencies will seek bids from a
list of potential suppliers, such as bidders from previous ICB, and broad enough to assure
competitive prices. Domestic preference will NOT be applied in the evaluation of bids. Modified
bid documents and specifications used under previous Bank financed projects may be used. LIB
will not be subject to any monetary threshold under ERP. The aggregate value for LIB and ICB
combined is expected to be about US$20 million equivalent.
1.3  International Shopping (IS)
International shopping (IS) will be used for purchases from abroad, as an alternative to LIB
and IAPSO for contracts with an individual value of less than US$600,000 equivalent and an
aggregate value of US$10 million. The IS method is based on comparing price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers based in two different countries. Requests for quotations will indicate
the description and quantity of goods or standard specification commodities in addition to the
desired delivery time and place. Quotations may be submitted by telex, electronic mail or facsimile.
The evaluation of quotations will follow national procedures reviewed and found acceptable by the
3



Bank. Any other factor other than price (e.g. delivery) to be used in the evaluation, will be stated in
the request for quotations and given a relative weight in the evaluation provisions. The terms of the
accepted offer will be incorporated in the purchase order.
1.4  Direct Contracting (International)
Direct contracting (sole source) at competitive, negotiated price below or comparable to
market price, may be used in the following cases:
(a) in response to emergency situations, when immediate action is required. This may
include purchases of commodities, food, shelter etc. for displaced people and deportees;
(b) to purchase additional goods from an existing contract. Whenever possible, provisions
for extensions will be included in the original contract;
(c) for standardization purposes in order to purchase equipment, spare parts and proprietary
products compatible with existing equipment; and
(d) in exceptional cases, subject to IDA/PPs previous no objection.
1.5  Procurement from United Nations Agencies
Procurement of items such as food, water, vehicles, agricultural inputs may be purchased
from specialized agencies of the United Nations (UN), such as IAPSO, acting as suppliers pursuant
to their own procedures. Under certain circumstances, lUN agencies may be used as procurement
agents to speed up handling and delivery of specialized products No monetary threshold is
required under ERP for purchase from UN agencies.
1.6  Commodities market (International and National)
Large quantities (more than US$I million individual contract) of commodities such as seeds,
grain, animal feed, livestock etc. may be purchased in alternative to LIB through conventional
commercial practices for commodities. Bidders, taken from a list of established suppliers, may be
invited to quote prices linked to the market price at the time of or prior to the shipment. Offers can
be made by telexed or faxed bids with no bid security. In general, standard contract conditions and
forms consistent with market practices for commodities will be used. An example of commercial
practices used by an Eritrean trading agency is shown in Attachment 1.
National Purchases
1.7 National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
Procedures and contracts normally used for public procurement by Eritrea will be used. NCB
may be carried out through (i) local advertisement or; (ii) through the use of short-listed, registered
suppliers under several categories. All other requirements will follow procedures similar to those
described in section 3.3 of Chapter III of IDA's procurement guidelines and no side letter will be
necessary. Standard bid documents, already approved under other Bank financed projects such as
ECDF, will be used. It is expected that under ERP, NCB will be used only for packages for which
no urgent delivery (more than-30 days) will be required.
1.8 National Shopping (NS)
National shopping (NS) will be one of the most common procurement methods used during the
emergency period. It will be used, in alternative to NCB, when readily available goods and
4



standard specifications commodities are available from more than one source in the country, at
competitive prices. Price quotations will be requested from several suppliers, usually at least three,
to assure competitive prices. Requests for quotations will indicate the description and quantities of
the goods, as well as desired delivery time and place. Any other factor other than price, e.g.
delivery to be used in the evaluation, will be stated in the request for quotations and given a relative
weight in the evaluation. Quotations may be submitted in writing, e.g., by telex, electronic mail or
facsimile. The terms of the accepted offer will be incorporated in the purchase order. National
shopping (NS) will be limited to contracts below the monetary threshold of US$600,000 for an
aggregate value of US$10 million.
1.9  Direct Contracting (sole source)
The method is similar to the one described in section 1.4, above, though it will be used in
relation to national purchases and existing national contracts.
1.10 Market / Auction Purchase
This basic procurement method will follow commercial practices and will be used, in
alternative to direct purchasing and NS, for the purchase of small numbers of animals (oxen,
camels) and other goods, available only in places of public markets in Eritrea and (if necessary)
abroad. Price will be based on the prevailing demand and offer on the day of the purchase. No
threshold has been established for this method though contracts are likely to be less than
US$100,000 equivalent.
2. PROCUREMENT OF WORKS
In order to re-establish vital services such as utilities, communications, shelters, and vital
supplies in the refugees areas, reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads, culverts, bridges and
power plant will be necessary. Contractors and force account units may be required to employ IDPs
and labor force (as far as practicable). The following procurement methods will be used:
2.1  International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
No ICB for works is expected under the ERP, given the lack of suitable packages. Business
opportunities for foreign contractors will be advertised as a GPN in Development Business
however. Interested foreign contractors replying to the advertisement will be taken into
consideration for higher cost and complex contracts under other procurement methods, such as LIB
and NCB. Modified ICB procedures would be used in case of packages beyond the monetary
threshold of US$5 million.
2.2 National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
Procedures will follow the Ministry of Public Works guidelines and national ranking of
contractors. Bids would be requested from national bidders either by (i) advertising in national
newspapers; or (ii) listing of pre-qualified contractors based on the Ministry of Public Works
rankings and guidelines. In case of complex or large contracts, (larger than US$2 million
equivalent, but below US$5 million), only international contractors both from abroad or based in
Eritrea, and national contractors ranked under category 1 of MOPW guidelines, will be invited to
participate. Procurement procedures (see annex 4) would follow national procedures consistent
with those described in section 3.3 of Chapter III of IDA' s procurement guidelines. Prior review of
the Bank will be required for works beyond the threshold of US$3 million equivalent.
5



2.3  Price Quotations (QP)
The method will be used, in alternative to NCB, for most of the urgent construction or
rehabilitation works. Registered / qualified bidders who are not fully committed with other work
will be requested to submit quotations. In most cases, at least three or more bidders should be
invited to bid. Quotations will be submitted in writing, i.e. by fax, letter, or electronic mail (copies
to be kept for the records). No bid or performance securities will be required. In urgent cases, such
as for restoration of vital services, quotations may also be requested in (i) the form of "unit rate
prices" (if work quantities are available with a reasonable degree of reliability); (ii) "cost-plus fee"
arrangements (when quantities cannot be reasonably determined in advance); or (iii) in the form of
a "lump sum" based on cost estimates carried out by PMU and its implementing agencies, or, if not
possible, by the contractors. The lowest priced offer will be selected. Prior review of the Bank will
be required for works beyond the threshold of US$1 million equivalent.
2.4   Direct Contracting (DC)
Direct contracting (sole source) will be used only when no other competitive procurement
methods can be used or no advantage can be obtained by further competition such as in the case of
emergency works and extension of previous works and services. Bank prior review will be required
in all cases unless an immediate decision is required due to an emergency.
2.5  Force account (FA)
Force account, that is, use of Government's own personnel and equipment may be used in
the following cases: (i) only the force account units have the required expertise to carry out the
particular works or services; (ii) quantities of works involved cannot be defined in advance; (iii)
works are small and scattered or in remote or risky locations for which qualified contractors are
unlikely to bid at a reasonable price; (iv) there is a high risk of work interruptions; and (v) there are
particular emergencies requiring prompt attention. The use of the force account and its procedures
of execution must first be agreed with IDA/PPs. Under ERP, financing may be based on a ratio of
80% of its estimated contractual cost.
2.6   Community Participation (CP)
In order to achieve some of the social objectives of the Program, local communities and/or
non governmental organizations (NGOs) may be called to carry out specific activities such as small
scale rehabilitation and reconstruction works and/or labor intensive activities in coordination or
assisted by local contractors or Government forces.
3. CONSULTANT SERVICES
Most of the consulting assignments under ERP are expected to be short term and to be
carried out by national consultants. Foreign consultants will be recruited for TA and more complex
assignments where no adequate local skills exist. National procedures will be used for the
procurement of both individual and consultant firms. The procedures were reviewed by the Bank
and found consistent with the procedures described in IDA Consultants Guidelines, January 1997
edition, revised January 1999. They can be summarized under the following selection methods:
6



3.1   Quality and Cost-based selection (QCBS)
This is a competitive selection process which takes into account the quality of the proposal
submitted by each consulting firm versus the cost of the services. Under the emergency component,
it will be used in a modified form using shortlists of national and international consultants for
contracts above the threshold of US$300,000. Advertising for specific contract on Development
Business is not envisaged under the Emergency. Requests of interest will be forwarded only to
experienced firms (3 to 6 in number) proposed by the implementing agencies and their advisers.
Evaluation procedures will be consistent with sections 2.19-2.22 of the Procurement Guidelines.
Only the financial offers of the bidders which were evaluated to be technically sound will be
considered.
3.2    Qualification (CQ)
Selection by Qualifications will be the preferred selection method used under the Emergency
Program below the threshold of US$300,000 equivalent. The line ministries and PMU, when
needed, will prepare the TORs; request expression of interest and information on the consultants'
experience and competence relevant to the assignment; establish a shortlist, and select the firm with
the most appropriate qualifications and experience. The selected firm will be asked to submit a
combined technical / financial proposal and then be invited to negotiate the contract. Both national
or international firms may be selected with this method under the ERP.
3.3  Fixed Budget (FB)
The fixed budget method will be used in alternative to the QCBS and CQ methods when
budget is fixed and scope of the assignment can be well defined. The selection procedures will be
similar to those described in section 3.5 of IDA's Consultants Guidelines. No advertising will be
necessary for most contracts under the emergency component. Short-listed firms (3 to 6) will be
invited to make an offer. Both national and international firms may be invited to participate.
The Request for Proposal will indicate the available budget and request the consultants to provide
their best offers in separate envelopes WITHIN the budget. Proposals that exceed the budget will
be rejected.
3.4  Force account for services
"Services" such as use of government drivers for transport, rehabilitation works, emergency
works and farm use in substitution of workers presently deported or displaced, may be procured
under modalities designed by the implementing agencies and to be approved by IDA/PPs. Accurate
records of working hours and payments will be kept by the implementing agencies / PMU for post
review and auditing purposes. The financing of these activities will be based on a ratio of 80% of
the estimated contractual cost.
3.5  Selection of individual consultants
Individual consultants, both national and international, will be selected on the basis of their
qualifications for the assignment. They may be selected on the basis of "references" or through
"comparison of qualifications" among those approached by the implementing agencies and, when
needed by the PMU. Individual consultants will have to meet all relevant qualifications and be
fully capable of carrying out the assignment. Capability will be judged on the basis of academic
background, experience in the works and services in whi-;h he/she is to be appointed and adequate
knowledge of the local conditions.
7



V. REVIEW BY IDA/PPS OF PROCUREMENT DECISIONS
5.1  Prior Review
In order to reduce delays, prior review will be limited to ICB and to large contracts above the
monetary thresholds stated in the Manual. IDA/PPs may request prior review of bid documents,
evaluation methods and contracts for which they require more detailed information. Similarly, any
request for no objection from PMU will be formally replied by IDA/PPs:
At Appraisal / Negotiations
* Procurement Action Plan and Scheduling (*)
* List of items to be procured (works and goods) and major packaging (*)
* Procurement methods and monetary thresholds by Component (*)
* TA, training and consulting needs and scheduling (*)
At Inception of the Program (Effectiveness)
*  General Procurement Notice for goods, works and consulting services under ERP
* Manual of procurement procedures under ERP (*)
* LACI based procurement assessment (*)
During Implementation
*  All procurement under ICB, as for IDA Guidelines Appendix I
*  Goods and works contracts above threshold of US$3 million equivalent
*  Force Account design and procedures
*  Consulting / training contracts above US$ 100,000 (individual) and US$300,000 (firms)
*  All TORs of consulting assignments (unless standard and pre-approved by IDA/PPs)
*  Whenever IDA/PPs Task Managers make request for prior review
* Action already carried out.
5.2  Post-Review
Under ERP, the procurement actions not subject to mandatory prior review as described in
5.1 above, will be subject to post-review. This is to allow fast disbursement of funds while assuring
transparency and consistency with the "Manual of procurement procedures". All documentation
used for contracting, recruitment of consulting services, evaluation and award shall be retained by
the implementing agencies / PMU for subsequent examination by independent auditors and
IDA/PP supervision missions. Number, timing and pattern of supervision missions will be
determined at the start of the implementation program.
8



VI. ERP PROCUREMENT PLANS
(Details of delivery / cost / units are available under separate reports and LMs offices)
Component A (Agriculture)
Implementing Agency Ministry of Agriculture
PART I
1.   Major Crop Production: (i.e. seeds, draft animals and farm tools)
* Procurement offertilizers: from International Commodity Market under commercial practices
through quotations from established suppliers. This may be handled by PMU/MOA or the Red
Sea Trading Corporation may be contracted to do the purchasing (and distribution) as it has
the necessary experience on the subject.
* Draft Animals: through Auction Purchase (local)
*  Farm Tools: through NS/IS
2.   Fruits and vegetable crops
* Procurement of seeds: through national / international shopping depending on seeds variety
-  Procurement offertilizers: through modifled ICB / Commodities Commercial practices
  Water Pumps: through IS
PART II
3.   Agricultural Tractors
* Various power Tractors: through modified ICB / LIB
4.   Cultivation equipment
* Equipment depending on size, cost, availability: through modified ICB ILIB
5.   Planters, Seed drills, Sprayers
* Various equipment: through modified ICB / LIB
6.   Earth Moving Equipment
*  Various equipment: through modified ICB / LIB
7.   Transport Equipment
8.   Harvesting
* All equipment above through LIB /modified ICB
9.   Workshop equipment
* Various types: through IS or LIB
10. Buildings
* Depending on size of contract: NCB or Quotations
9



PART III
I 1. Poultry
* One day old chicks/feed: through Direct Contracting (sole source)
* Housing (poultry): NCB or Quotations
12. Bee keeping
* Equipment and Tools: through NS /IS
* Training: through Qualifications
13. Re-stocking
*  Several animals stock. through Direct Purchasing /Auction markets
14. Dairy Production
*  Cows through Auction market /Direct Purchasing
15. Rangeland development
* Procurement of local seeds: through IS INS
* Civil works: through NCB / Quotations
* Farm Tools: through IS INS
16. Animal Health
* Drugs, vitamins, vaccines: through NS/IS
* Training: through Qualifications
17. Vehicles
* 1 vehicle through direct purchasing
10



Component A (Agriculture)
Implementing Agency Ministry of Agriculture
ERP AGRICULTURE COMPONENT - DRAfT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
S.N.          LIST OF ITEMS TO BE        UNIT  I  QTY   I ALLOCATE         DELIVERY              MODE OF           DEPT
PROCURED            7                    D BUDGET          TIME            PROCUREMENT
LAND RESOURCE AND CROP PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
I           MAJOR CROP PRODUCTION         l         l __   _               l_l_                                      l
1.1         SEEDS:-                         TON      14,000    5,000,000.00   July,2000      NS/IS/DIRECT CONTACT  l
1.2         DRAFT ANIMALS                   No.      6,700    2,000,000.00   August-Dec.,    AUCTION PURCHASE
2000            (local)
1.3         FARM TOOLS                      PCS.       _      1,805,000.00   Sept.-Dec., 2000   NS/IS
X________      SUB-TOTAL          _        _ _    8,805,000.00                     ___  _                   X _
2            FRUITS & VEGETABLE CROP
PRO.
2.1          SEEDS                          KG       205,200    300,000.00   September,2000   NS/IS
2.2          SPRAYERS                       No.      2,200       65,500.00   Sept-Dec., 2000  IS
2.3         FERTILIZERS                     TON      1,500      400,600.00   Sept. 2000 -    modified ICB/or Com
Dec. 2001       Practice
2.4         WATER PUMP & ACCESSORIES   SET            900     2,520,000.00      do           is
2.5         CATCHEMENT                      No.       _        1,605,000.00                  LCB
REHABILITATION                                                  January,2001
SUB-TOTAL                            4,891,100.00
FARM MACHINIRY AND TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT
3           AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS    lNo.              224    6,876,800     July-August,     Modified ICB/or LIB
2000
4           CULTIVATION EQUIPMENTS          No.        294     1,107,500       do                       do            _
5           PLANTER, SEED DRILLS,
FERTIL- IZER DISTRIBUTORS,    No.          33      200,700      All times                  do
SPRAYERS
6           EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENTS   No.               36    1,782,800        do                       do
7           TRANSPORT,HANDLING & PIT-
TING EQUIPMENTS                No.         99    1,231,000.00   All times       Modified ICB/or LIB
S.N.          LIST OF ITEMS TO BE        UNIT      QTY    ALLOCATE         DELIVERY              MODE OF            DEPT
PROCURED                                 D BUDGET          TIME            PROCUREMENT
8           HARVESTING MACHINERY            No.          52   1,072,000.00     do                       do
9           WORKSHOP EQUIPMENTS             No.          99     572,300.00     do            IS/or LIB_
10          COMPLEXES                       No            6     804,400.00     do            NCB/or Quotation
I I         SHELTERS                        No.          --    309,400.00
12          MOBILE BRIQUETING PLANT
AND ACCESSORIES                No.          ---   1,100,000.00
SUB-TOTAL                           15,056,900.00
ANIMAL RESOUR CE DEPARTMENT
11          POULTRY PRODUCTION
11.1       UONE DAY OLD CHICKS              No                   772,500.00   Feb.-Sept.,   Single Source
562,500                2000
11.2        FEED                            TON                  187,500.00      do                    do
600_
11.3        HOUSING                         No.    _1,500,00w.00                 do        NCB/or Quotation
SUB TOTAL                          2,460,000.00                      _   _                X
11



S.N.         LIST OF ITEMS TO BE               UNIT    QTY        ALLOCATED         DELIVERY       MODE OF PROCUREMENT   DEPT
PROCURED                                               BUDGET            TIME
ANIMAL RESOURCE DEPARTMENT (cont'd)
12           BEE KEEPING                                                       .                  _
12.1         EQUIPMENTS & TOOLS                PCS.                 655,600.00      April, 2001    IS/NS
12.2         TRAINING                          No.      _57,800.00                      do        Qualification
12.3         FEED                              TON                   49,400.00          do        Single Source
SUB TOTAL                              762,800.00
13           RESTOCKING                                                 . _
13.1         COWS                              No                   750,000.00      March,2001    Single Source/or Auction
__ _ __ _ _ _   _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _1,875               _  _ _ _ _ _ _    purch._                       _ _ _
13.2         GOATS                             No.                  450,000.00          do                     do
11,250
13.3         FEMALE CAMELS                     No.                   180,000.00         do                     do
_  _                            ~~~~~~~~~450
13.4         DONKEY                            No.                   93,800.00          do                     do
1,875
13.5         FEED                              TON                 1,087,500.00         do                     do
4,350
SUB TOTAL                                  2,561,300.00
14           DAIRY PRODUCTION
14.1         COWS                              NO.                    94,500.00     March,2001    Single source /or Auction
135                                      purch.
14.2         FEED                              TON                   93,800.00          do         SS/Quotation
375
14.3         COW SHED                          No                    52,500.00          do         Quotation
8
14.4         VEHICLES                          No.                   20,000.00
I
SUB TOTAL                          260,800,00
15           RANGE LAND DEVELOPMENT
15.1         SEED                              TON       2,793.8    20,800.00      February,2001
15.2         FARM TOOLS                        No.                   3,500.00     December,2000                do
15.3         CIVIL WORKS                       No.                  617,000.00          do         NCB/Quotation
15.4         SALARIES                          Amt.       _         262,700.00
SUB TOTAL                           904,000.00
16           ANIMAL HEALTH
16.1         CLINICAL INSTRUMENTS &
CON-                             TON                  391,200.00      March, 2001
SUMABLES
16.2         DRUGS AND VITAMINS                No.          _       152,200.00          do        NS/IS
16.3         VACCINES                          No.          _       158,200.00          do           do
16.4         A.H TRAINING                      Amt.                  15,000.00     January, 2000   Qualification
16.5         BUILDINGS                         No.          9        540,000.00         do         NCBlQuotation
SUB-TOTAL                             1,256,900.00
GRAND TOTAL                                  36,958,800.00
12



Component B/i (Infrastructure)
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Public Works - Infrastructure Department (MOPW-ID)
(1) Repair of War-destroyed bridges and road approaches ($0.46 million)
Repair and/or reconstruction of existing abutments and piers as required and installation of
Bailey bridge sections on existing abutments in three locations. Reconstruction or construction
of road approaches to bridge sites.
To be contracted through RTCD force account units.
(2) Construction of abutments and piers and installation of one Bailey bridge, construction of new
access roads along existing tracks and reshaping and improvement of existing roads to serve
major new settlements along the Central Belt. ($10.31 million)
*  Installation of Bailey bridge. To be contracted through RTCD Force account units
* Construction of bridge abutments and piers. By Quotations or Direct Contracting to
experienced, well-equipped contractor.
*  Improvement of roads and construction of bridges and culverts. Quotations /NCB and
occasional use of RTCD Force Account Units
(3) Construction of small bridges and culverts and reconstruction of road access along North-
eastern and Northern Belts. ($17.07 million)
* Improvement roads and construction of bridges and culverts. NCB / Quotations and RTCD
Force Account Units if no suitable contractors can be found
(4) Procurement of Bailey Bridges, Vehicles and Office Equipment. ($4.27 milliori
* Bailey bridge sections. Direct Contracting to specialized international supplier
* Vehicles (2), computers (7), and accessories. IAPSO and/or National Shopping
(5) Technical Advisory Services and Consultancy Services. ($3.25 million)
To enable MOPW-ID management of works to carry out pre-construction investigations (including
condition survey/inspection, design and contract documentation) and construction supervision;
- Technical Advisory Services (Highway Design and Planning Engineer/Contract
Implementation Specialist). By selection of individuals.
-  Consultancy Services. By Qualifications/ QCBS
  MOPW-ID staffing re-instatement and strengthening. Selection of Individuals
13



Component B/1 (Infrastructure)
ERP Roads - Draft Implementation Schedule
Category   Procurement Activities   .                                  .
Pack-                                        Bid/RFP      Bid/RFP           Contract
age                         Est.  Procure-    Doc          Doc     Bid Eval.
No.         Description     Cost   ment  PreQual/Slist   Issued      Rec'd  Signature Completion
US$   Method     Rec'd
Mill.
Works  A  Repair war-destroyed  I to 4  6 Bailey Br.@4places   0.71
bridges+approaches          Tessenei Br.          0.21 FAIDC                                    June,200 July,2000
Awgaro Br.            0.12 FA/DC                                    Oct.2000 Dec.2000
Kuluku Br.           0.13 FA/DC   :                                 Oct.2000 Dec.2000
Akurdet Br.          0.25 FAIDC                                     Dec.2000 Dec.2001
Works   B
Construct new acces  5 to 13 Main Central Belt Rds   8.67                  Nov.2000   Jan.2001 Feb.2001
roads + improve            Akurdet-Kerkebet       1.77 FA/DC                                             Dec.2001
access to new               Kerkebet-Zara         1.21 DC/NCB                                            Sep.2001
settlement                  Zara-Melebso          2.17 DC/NCB                                            Nov.2001
5
Melebso-Afabet        1.92 FAIDC                                             Jul.2001
Afabet-Abarara        1.60 DC/NCB                                            Sep.2001
Maiseraw-Alba         0.20 DC/NCB                                            Apr.2001
Shebah-Ghirghir      0.71 DC/NCB                                             Jul.2001
Aderde-Shelab         0.17 FAIDC                                             Mar.2001
Works   C                               Sawa-Moluber          0.39 FAIDC                                             Jun.2001
Construct new &     14 to 15 Northeastem Belt Rds   7.98                   Dec.2000    Feb.2001 Mar.2001
improved access to         Abarara-Mahm-Karora  6.55 DC/NCB                                              Oct.2002
drought/famine areas       Afabet-Kub-Ma'amide   1.43 FA/DC                                              Sep.2001
16 to 19 Northem BeHt Rds    9.01                      Mar.2001      May-01 Jun.2001
Sel'a-Titay-Kerkebet    2.55 DC/NCB                                          Jul.2002
Zara-Hasta-Itaro     2.87 D)C/NCB                                            Apr.2002
ltaro-Nakfa           1.58 DC/NCB                                            Mar.2002
Nakfa-Afabet         2.01 FA/DC                                              Jan.2002
Goods  D  Procurement           DI      Bailey Br.2xAir       1.92 DC (Int'l) -        Jun.2000    Jul.2000 Jul.2000 Jul.2000
of Goods                    Bailey Br.1xShip                               Jun.2000    Jul.2000 Jul.2000 Oct.2000
D2     Bailey Br.3xShip      2.25 DC (Int'l) -         Nov.2000    Dec.2000 Jan.2001 Apr.2001
D3     TA Vehicles           0.07 IAPSO/L              Nov.2000    Dec.2000 Dec.2000 Mar.2001
D4     TA Computers etc      0.02 IAPSO/L              Nov.2000    Dec.2000 Dec.2000 Feb.2001
Services E  PreConstruct Services El    PreConstruct+Spn      2.37 QBS/FA  Oct.2000    Oct.2000    Nov.2000 Dec.2000 Oct.2002
Survey & Design     E2      TA Expat              1.18 QBS
Construct'n Supervis'n E3  TA Local              0.30 QBS
35.96c 
14



Component B/2 (Power)
The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MOE), Eritrea electric authority, operates two systems of
supply whose source of generation is all thermal, namely:
(a) the Inter-Connected System (ICS) which supplies Asmara, Massawa, the towns in between,
Keren, Mendefera and Dekemhare through 132 and 66KV transmission lines, and
(b) the Self-Contained System (SCS) which consists of five (5) isolated supply centers having their
own generation and distribution facilities.
Air raids caused substantial damages to both ICS and SCS systems and in particular to the newly
built (and still under commissioning) Hirgigo Power Plant in Massawa and related sub-stations
which formed the back-bone of the system.
Damages to the ICS system included those to:
(i) 132/66/15KV substation switchgear
(ii) local control rooms for diesel generators units No. 3 and 4;
(iii) cladding of the power house, south side
(iv) stacks for engines No. 1 and 2, and
(v) minor damage to mechanical and electrical equipment and storage area
The estimate of cost (subject to revision) for the ICS system is as follows:
Civil works ................ 3,000,000 USD
Mechanical ................ 5,600,000 USD
Electrical ................  6,400,000 USD
Generator 4 (provisional) ..3,000,000 USD
Substation ................  1,600,000 USD
Damages to the SCS system, include those to the Barentu and Tesseney power generators, and to
the generation and distribution facilities of Adi Quala, Adi Keih and Senafe. Estimates are:
Barentu .................100,000 USD
Tesseney ................  300,000 USD
Adi Quala ................  30,000 USD
Adi Keih ................   25,000 USD
A contingency of 10% should be added.
Procurement will make use of fast-track construction and purchasing methods which will allow for
an early re-establishment of the two systems, as follows:
*  The rehabilitation of both Massawa Hirgigo power station and related sub-stations damaged
during the war will be carried out by Direct Contracting using the contractors was just
completed the construction of the structures and are still on site.
* Replacement of power generators and other electrical and mechanical equipment of Barentu /
Tesseney and other generating centers will be carried out through L.I.B or international
shopping based on cost and a list of available suppliers.
*  Repairs to the electrical power system will be carried out either by Quotations or Force
Account depending on the area, extent of damage and availability of local contractors.
15



Component C (Private Sector Development)
The component will consist of three sub-components:
(a) Support for Affected Enterprises (US$ 15 million)
This sub-component will enable the Commercial Bank of Eritrea (CBE), the Housing and
Commerce Bank of Eritrea (HCBE) and the Eritrea Development and Investment Bank (EDIB) to
provide debt relief to about 3000 borrowers who were affected by the recent war with Ethiopia.
Financial relief to the affected enterprises will be under the form of loans with or without waiver of
interest.
(b) Loan Fund
A loan fund will be channeled through the three banks above to finance the fixed investments and
permanent working capital needs of viable private enterprises, especially to finance foreign
currency needs, e.g. for the imports of machinery.
(c) Technical Assistance Program
The TA program, which will assist the three banks to achieve sufficient capability to undertake the
implementation of the Loan Fund, will include the recruitment of:
(i) experts in banking regulations and banking supervision for the BE;
(ii) experts in Operations, Credit, International Banking, MIS/computer systems for CBE;
(iii) experts in Credit operations for HCBE; and
(iv) an Operations adviser for EDIB.
Procurement for sub-loans under parts (a) and (b) of the component will be undertaken by the
banks following established (private sector) Commercial practices, acceptable to the Bank/PPs and
in accordance to section 3.12 of the Procurement Guidelines.
Recruitment of international consultants (firms and individuals) for the sub-component (c) will
make use of shortlists and the QCBS method for contracts above US$300,000, and Qualifications
method for assignments below that threshold. No advertising will be required for most
assignments.
Recruitment of national consultants (individuals and firms) will follow nationalpractices and
Qualifications for all contracts below US$300,000 equivalent. QCBS will be used for consulting
contracts higher than US$300,000 equivalent.
16



Component D (Social Protection,)
This component will assist households by financing activities aimed at preventing further
deterioration in the welfare of those most affected by the consequences of both war and drought,
and at strengthening their capacity to better manage social and economic risks. Specific activities
will include:
(a) Replenishing the ECDF - Infrastructure Component (US$21 million)
Rehabilitation and development of basic social and economic infrastructures in the following
sectors:
Education: rehabilitation of schools in the Gash Barka and debub Regions; construction of
provisional classrooms; provision of school supplies, training, recreation and extra-curricula
activities. A teachers training center.
Health: rehabilitation of basic health facilities in both Gash Barka and Debub;
Access roads: rehabilitation of small feeder roads near refugee and returnee camps such as
Debub, Semeinawi, and Gash Barka;
Water Supply: construction of three small water supply schemes in the Debub area. These
will include a geophysical survey and equipment, drilling and civil works.
The simple procurement activities under this sub-component will include: Community
Participation (CP) and Quotations methods for works, and occasional direct contracting.
(b) Replenishment of ECDF - Micro-credit Component (US$2 million)
The ECDF "village bank savings and credit program" will be re-financed under each of its two tiers
to provide small loans to groups and individuals and finance small business in rural areas
Established private sector and Commercial practices acceptable to the Bank/PP, and already used
under ECDF project, will be used for this sub-component.
(c) Housing Component (US$10 million)
This sub-component will provide resources and/or materials to subsidize the cost of re-building
houses, destroyed during the war, for approximately 20,000 poor households. The activities will be
supervised by the Ministry of Local Government. Procurement will be based on Community
Participation and Quotations methods, with occasional direct contracting for works, and shopping
Idirect contracting for the purchase of construction materials and tools.
(d) Strenghthening of community-based safety nets (US$8 million)
The sub-component will provide various traditional safety nets, such as "cash for work" and cash
transfers (grants) based on a set of eligibility criteria agreed upon by the Bank/PPs and GOE.
MOLG will be responsible for the coordination of the sub-component.
17



ANNEX I
Example of "commercial practices" used by national procurement agent
RED SEA TRADING CO.
After the requisition is receivedfrom the Client, the following process will take place:
1.   Preparation of a Purchase requisition form.
2.   Listing of available sources for the requested commodities.
3.   Review andfinal drafting of the specifications receivedfrom the Client
4.   Listed suppliers are requested (usually byfax) to quote prices based on the specification by
showing cost andfreight separately
5.   Procurement committee reviews the quotations. Factors of evaluation includes price,
quality, delivery and additionalfactors. Evaluation results to be approved by GM.
6.   Once approved by the GM, purchase order is sent to the selected supplier
7.   Contract is prepared and sent to supplier viafax. Signed contract is resent to agent. The
original documents are also sent by courier.
8.   Payment is made generally on a 100%  deposit irrevocable Letter of credit (L/C) due to the
rating of Eritrea as "country risk"
9.   Quality and quantity checks are made either atpre-shipment by third party inspector or
arrival by RED SEA and other government inspectors
10.  Insurance clauses are included in every contract to guarantee the Clientfrom discrepancies
in quantity and quality.
The following additionalfeatures may be incorporatedfor procurement under ERP:
(1)  A General Procurement Notice to be published in Development Business at the inception of
the Program informing the general public of the business opportunities under ERP.
(2)   Suppliers manifesting interest in the contracts may be included in the list, provided they
satisfy rating criteria by the agent and/or its London representative ERICOMMERCE.
(3)   Optionalpayment conditions will be offered to suppliers such as 90% atshipping and 10%
after arrival. Suppliers choosing the 100% will have to offer a discount in their offer and a
performance guarantee of 5-10% of the value of the contract valid 30 days after arrival of
the vessel.
(4)  Evaluation results will be reviewed by the relevant implementing agencies and PMU, and in
the case of contracts higher than US$5 million, also by IDA/PPs.
18



ANNEX 2
Examples of Bid Documents to be used under ERP
Bid documents to be used under the ERP follow internationally recognized standard and have been
used by the Client over several years under Bank and other PPs. financed projects. Bid
documents will be requiredfor most of the internationally and nationally competitive tenders
such as:
Procurement of goods and works
* Modified ICB (works): based on the IDA standard bid documents for the procurement of
smaller works (up to US$10 million).
* Modified ICB (goods): based on the IDA standard bid documents for the procurement of
goods.
* Limited International Bidding (LIB): as for modified ICB, above.
* Procurement of Commodities: based on modified documents used by international traders,
incorporating basic IDA requirements.
* National Competitive (NCB): based on national standard bid document for both goods and
works, reviewed by IDA andfound acceptable. NCB bid documents are substantially similar to
those usedfor ICB with some variation in the clauses of domestic preference (not applicable),
currency of bid andpayments, and modified clauses concerning advance payment, arbitration
andformula for price fluctuations.
- International and National Shopping (S and NS): no bid documents will be used. Procurement
is based on technical specifications only.
Consulting Services
*  Quality and Cost based Selection (QCBS) : used by the Client over several years under Bank
and PPs financed projects. It is used mainly for large consulting contracts in which foreign
consultants are used. Standard document is IDA 's Request for Proposals (RFP) which
incorporates standard letter of invitation (LOI); data sheet; forms and various models of
contract for time based and lump sum types of assignment.
*  Qualifications (QS): usedfor most assignments under ERP. No RFP is used. Contracts based
on IDA's time based or lump sum contracts as for QCBS. Modified contracts, based on
national practices reviewed by the Bank, are usedfor small assignments and whenever only
national consultants have been short-listed.
Bid Evaluation Reports
* Based on IDA' standard bid evaluation form for the procurement of goods and works.
19



ANNEX 3
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
under ERP
Procedures under NCB and other competitive bidding will follow national procedures consistent
with Bank/PPs guidelines. They will include clauses which will allow for a more competitive
participation by national contractors, such as
* Contractors registration: MOPW guidelines will be followed. National contractors category 2-
10 will be allowed to participate only for works within their own capability.
* Advertising: works above the threshold of US$2 million will be advertised in local English
language paper of wide circulation.
* Qualifications: bid documents for works above the threshold of US$2 million will have to state
minimum qualifications criteria based on IDA SBDs for smaller works.
* Bid documents : standard bid documents will be used based on IDA's SBDs for Smaller Works
and procurement of Goods.
* Currency of bid: Bidders will be allowed to bid in local currency and another currency (other
US$ or ECU), based on their needs and expressed in percentage of the overall bid price.
* Rate of exchange: will be fixed and based on the date specified in the bid documents.
* Currency of payment: payments will be made in the same currencies of bids at a fixed rate of
exchange
* Bid opening: will be open to public and will be held immediately after bid closing hour.
* Escalation formula: all contracts beyond 9 months will include a price variation formula.
* In lack of reliable price indexes, cost increases will be based on invoices and Client records.
* Advance payment: generally up to 15% of the contract value, may be as high as 30% under
emergency situation to be determined by the Client. Advance may be given in foreign currency
based on currency of bid.
Advance Guarantees
* Advances up to 5% of the contract value will require no bank or insurance guarantee.
* Advances up to 30% of the contract will require either (i) a bank guarantee; (ii) an insurance
bond acceptable to Client; or (iii) a written declaration by a supplier, e.g., (cement, aggregates,
plant, equipment). Client will pay directly to suppliers.
20



ANNEX 4
ERITREA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Standard Documentation for Procurement of Goods
Under National Shopping (NS)
21






October 2000
Asmara
Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Program
(insert name, address, phone of implementing agency, e.g. Ministry ofAgriculture)
Request for Quotation
Date:
Quotation Request No.:
TO
Dear Sirs,
Please give us your proforma invoice for the following goods.
Ser. No.        Description and          Unit              Quantity
Specification
1.   Please keep your prices valid for a period of 60 days.
2.  Indicate on your proforma invoice our quotation request No.
22



3.   Please submit your bid/proforma invoice not later than (time) (date) at the
following address in sealed envelope, at which time all bids received will be
opened in the presence of the Purchasing Committee members.
4.   Delivery is required at         (place) on _ _  (date).
Address of the Purchaser                      Name:
Signature:
QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE
For the purpose of qualification, the term "Supplier" shall be deemed to mean the
manufacturer's export outlet within the territorial limits of Eritrea, and the term "Agent"
hereinafter referred to shall be deemed to mean the Supplier's distributor/agent
representing the Supplier in Eritrea.
1.   Supplier's name and address:
2.   Name of eligible source country:
3.   How many year has the Supplier been in business under the present business name:
4.   Lots/items for which the Supplier is submitting bids:
5.   Goods and services are from following eligible source countries:
6.   The Bidder is manufacturer or manufacturer agent (Delete as appropriate).
7.   Evidence of agent's authority is/is not enclosed herewith (Delete as appropriate).
8.   Additional information for the last 3 years (audited financial statements may be
submitted).
a)   1.   Total sales turnover (in US Dollars or local currency):
2.   Net Worth (in US Dollars or local currency):
3.   Number of Employees:
4.   Number of Manufacturing locations:
b)   Name and address of bankers: _
c)   Name and address of auditors:
23



d)  Number of years doing business in Eritrea:
Signed by authorized signatory:
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS
1.   The supplier is expected to furnish all information required by the request for
quotation. Failure to do so may result in the rejection of the proforma invoice.
2.   A prospective supplier requiring clarification shall request such clarification from the
purchaser in writing, by cable, telex, or fax, not later than five days before the deadline for
submission of proforma invoices.
3.   The proforma invoice shall be prepared in original and two copies. The prices
should be quoted by the supplier in Nafka inclusive of all taxes duties paid or payable on
the items, if the contract is awarded.
4.   Delivery is required at             . Please invoice transportation or other
charges, if any, incidental to the delivery of goods to the final destination, which will be
taken into account in the evaluation of proforma invoices, in addition to the offered prices.
5.   Origin of goods shall be from eligible source countries, i.e., from member countries
of the World Bank.
6.   Payments will be made in Nafka on receipt of goods and all other documents
required in the specifications.
7.   The proforma invoice shall be signed by the supplier or a person or persons duly
authorized to bind the supplier to the contract.
8.   The supplier shall seal the proforma invoice in an envelope addressed to the
purchaser.
9.  (i) In the case of equipment, the successful supplier shall provide twelve months
warranty from the date of delivery for factory defects and shall also warrant that they are
new and unused.
(ii) The successful supplier shall be authorized by the manufacturer of the goods to
carry out maintenance, repair, and spare parts stocking where applicable, and be willing to
perform this work when required by the purchaser.
24



10.  The supplier shall attach the following documentary evidence:
o   Valid trade license;
o Import declaration (for imported goods, if any); and
o  A duly filled qualification questionnaire attached.
11. Award will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder whose goods meet the
specifications and who has necessary capability to carry out the contract satisfactorily.
12.  The contract price shall be fixed and not subject to price adjustment.
13.  The supplier shall indemnify the purchaser against all third part patent rights claims.
25



Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP)
(insert here name of implementing agency, address, phone: e.g. Ministry ofAgriculture)
Purchase Order
Date:
P.O. No.:
TO:
Dear Sirs,
We thank you for your proforma invoice No.   dated
We have the pleasure in placing an order for the following goods.
Ser. No.    Description    Unit        Quantity    Unit Price    Total Price
___________ Specification
Please deliver the goods within (days) to (location). Payment will be effected within
_ days, upon receiving your invoice duly signed by authorized signatories.
Warranty:      The warranty period will be    from the date of delivery.
Patent Right:   The supplier shall indemnify the purchaser against all third-party claims
of patent right.
Packaging:     Goods should be properly packed in
Delivery Destination:                        Name:
Signature:
26






PHOTOGRAPHS
27






es:~~~~~~.-, .   .
4-_                             ~~~~~~- '.  *  s-
PhiPto 1 Tessciev Bridge Further Destroyed during Second Occupation
Photo 2 Shops in Tessenev



z-R r~'-- c       -  i    , : : _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
Photo 3 Guluj Sclhool
' 3       f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
~~~~~~L                   .                        ..^ :..,  .-
Photo 4 Guluj School (Children?s Desis & Chairs)



Photo 5 Gash Barkoa Regional Government Office in Barentu
tE-                   '           zF,
.F.    r             tY'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~-,
9                 * ,         (s %
Photo 6 Barentu Asmara Hotel






Attachment II
ERITREA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(PROJECT ID #P044674)
EXTRACTS FROM THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
Asmara
September 2000






1.   PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
The overall objectives of the proposed program are: (i) to assist Eritrea rapidly to rebuild key
physical and social infrastructure (bridges, health clinics, schools, etc.); (ii) to help displaced and
drought-affected people rebuild their lives and resume their economic activities, through the
provision of urgently needed inputs such as tools, seeds, shelter items, as well as employment
opportunities; (iii) to rehabilitate the privates sector through the provision of lines of credit; and
(iv) to assist the government to maintain macroeconomic stability through balance of payments
support.
2. PROGRAM SCHEDULE
The Program is expected to be implemented over a twenty-four-month period, starting in
December 2000.
3. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
The Program is divided into five main components:
3.1 Agriculture
This component will finance the purchase and distribution of seeds, fertilizers, agricultural tools,
tractors and machinery, and livestock. Agricultural inputs, including livestock will be given as a
one-time grant to an estimated 770,000 war and drought-affected households, the majority of
whom are farmers, to enable them resume agricultural and livestock production. Tractors and
heavy machinery will be needed to revive productive capacities so as to compensate for the
reduced availability of agricultural labor, and animal draft power, as well as to expand
agricultural activities in new areas which have not been affected by the war. These tractors and
machinery will remain for the moment property of the GOE, which is however planning to
privatize this after the immediate needs related to the war emergency have been met.
3.2 Infrastructure Rehabilitation
This component will finance the reconstruction and rehabilitation of infrastructure in the roads
and energy sector.
3.2.1 Roads Sector
This sub-component will provide emergency assistance for the rehabilitation of key roads and
bridges, to secure timely delivery of food and social services to the war affected population,
facilitate the resettlement and return of war refuges, and help economic recovery by reducing
road transport costs. The Program will finance: (i) Reconstruction of roads and bridges damaged
during the conflict; (ii) Rehabilitation, upgrading and reshaping of links around the central belt;
(iii) construction of a bridge and culverts, and reshaping of road sections in the northern and
northeastern areas of the country; (iv) Procurement of culverts, gabions and some 255 linear
meters of Bailey bridge sections; and (v) Pre-construction studies and design work, and
construction supervision.
2



3.2.2 Energy Sector
The sub-component will finance: (i) the rehabilitation of the Massawa Hirgigo power plant which
forms the back-bone of the Eritrean power system and was damaged during the recent conflict;
The replacement of power generators in two towns in western Eritrea; (ii) repairs to electrical
power systems.
3.3  Private Sector Reconstruction
This component will consist of three parts:
3.3.1 Support to Affected Enterprises
This sub-component will enable the three commercial banks in Eritrea (the Commercial Bank of
Eritrea [CBE]; the Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea [HCBE]; and the Eritrea
Development and Investment Bank [EDIB]) to provide debt relief to an estimated 3,000
borrowers who were affected by the recent war. As a result of the destruction of assets financed
by their loans, these banks' portfolios have suffered an estimated loss of US$34 million. The
extent of financial relief to the affected enterprises will be based on estimated damage to the
assets.
3.3.2 Loan Fund
Funds will be channeled through the same three commercial banks to finance the fixed
investment and permanent working capital needs, on commercial terms, of viable private
enterprises, especially to finance foreign exchange needs. The Fund will have no sectoral
limitations to the type of sub-projects eligible for financing. The loan maturity will be expected to
be four to five years.
3.3.3 TechnicalAssistance Program
The successful implementation of the Loan fund would depend on the ability of the three banks to
allocate credit to enterprises based on a critical assessment of long term credit risk, and the ability
of the Bank of Eritrea to exercise its prudential control over the banking institutions it is supposed
to regulate. The essential elements of the Technical Assistance Program will include provision of
experts in the banking sector and supporting training activities.
3.4  Social Protection
This component will assist vulnerable households by financing activities aimed at preventing
further deterioration in the welfare of those affected by war and drought, and at strengthening
their capacity to better manage social and economic risks. Specific activities include:
3.4.1 ECDF Infrastructure
Funds amounting to US$21 million will be replenished to the Eritrean Community Development
fund (ECDF). The ECDF finances community-based subprojects including rehabilitation and
development of basic social and economic infrastructure. The new funds will be used to
rehabilitate affected social infrastructure (schools, health facilities, access roads, and water supply
systems) in those areas which have been affected by the recent fighting.
3



3.4.2 ECDFMicro-Credit
The Micro-Credit sub-component will be refinanced (US$2 million) to allow it to provide loans
of up to US$1,000 to groups or individuals for income generating activities. The Program will
also provide loans of up to US$10,000 to groups or individuals who progress to Tier Two of the
financing arrangements as per the Operational Manual.
3.4.3 Housing Program (no IDAfinancing)
This sub-component will provide resources and/or materials to subsidize the cost of rebuilding
houses of 20,000 households who lost their houses and all their belongings during the recent
fighting. An ERP Desk, housed within the Ministry of Local Government, will be responsible for
developing prototypes of housing facilities which will fit the culture, environment and well-being
of the beneficiaries, and for overseeing the overall project implementation. Regional and sub-
regional offices will be responsible for identifying specific housing rehabilitation needs,
mobilizing and training communities, monitoring, and supervising the works.
3.4.4 Community-based Safety Nets Program (no IDAfinancing)
This sub-component will include the financing of traditional safety nets to be implemented at the
community level. The Regional offices of the Ministry of Local Government will be responsible
to define eligibility criteria, planning and oversee implementation. In most cases, it is expected
that appropriate beneficiaries will receive cash grants, to be repaid without interest in two yearly
installments. Other methods (e.g. cash-for-work) will be considered whenever appropriate. A
project specific survey will be carried out shortly to determine exact needs, spread and extent of
households affected by the conflict.
3..5 Balance of Payments support (no IDA financing)
This component will provide the Government with immediate quick-disbursement balance of
payments support to be spent towards a positive list of imports.
4.   FINANCING AND COST SHARING
The overall size of the Program is estimated to be US$287.7 million of which IDA is expected to
finance US$90 million, the Government will contribute US$24 million equivalent. Multilateral
and bilateral development partners are expected to finance US$173.7 million towards the
Program through parallel or co-financing.
5. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS / PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
5.1  Institutional and Management arrangements
The Program will be coordinated by a small Program Management Unit (PMU) housed in the
Ministry of Finance. The PMU will be responsible for: (i) ensuring that inputs are delivered on
time to the various implementing agencies noted below; (ii) collecting information about
implementation progress and making it available to concerned partners; (iii) managing all
international procurement, and the Special Account (excluding the separate Special Account for
the replenishment of ECDF, which will be managed directly by the Fund); and (iv) fulfilling all
auditing, accounting, financial management and reporting requirements.
4



The actual implementation of the individual components will be the responsibility of the relevant
line ministries or government agencies, in particular: Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Energy;
Ministry of Public Works; Ministry of Local Government; Ministry of Finance, and the Bank of
Eritrea. A number of the implementing agencies are already implementing on-going Bank-
financed projects and staff in these agencies are conversant with the World Bank's procurement
and disbursement procedures.
A Steering Committee under the Chairmanship of the Director General, Ministry of Local
Government, and consisting of Director Generals of all implementing sector ministries will
oversee implementation of the Program and take policy decisions on issues related to
implementation effectiveness.
5.2 Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
The main regulations governing the operations of the Program are outlined in the Manual of
procurement procedures under ERP, which has been drafted by the borrower in coordination with
the Bank. The manual will be adopted by co-financing partners in order to harmonize
procurement arrangements and ensure the fastest and most efficient way to respond to the
emergency situation. The methods outlined in the Manual are based on government regulations,
commercial practices, and simplified ICB, LIB and international shopping for the procurement of
goods manufactured abroad.
The Finance Officer and members of the PMU and the implementing agencies are conversant
with the procurement procedures.
5.3 Flow of Funds
Regarding IDA and the State of Eritrea funding, ERP should maintain 3 bank accounts
(Additional bank accounts, if deemed appropriate, will be opened as and when other
development partners join ERP and, once the bases for participation by those partners have
been fully determined): (i) Special Account with the Bank of Eritrea in US Dollars; (ii) an
account in local currency with a commercial bank (Part I Account) to which drawdowns from the
Special Account should be credited for Program financing and administrative expenses; and (iii)
an account in local currency with a commercial bank (Part 2 Account) to which counterpart
funding by the Government should be deposited in respect of any expenditure of ERP that may
be provided for in the Development Credit Agreement.
Flow of funds to the implementing agencies will be determined by the procurement arrangements
for the various activities to be carried out under the relevant components. As far as possible, the
PMU will manage intemational procurement, using the funds in the Special Account, by
requesting the Bank to make direct payments to suppliers, and by letters of credit through special
commitments issued by the Bank.
ECDF and Bank of Eritrea will manage their own separate Special Accounts.
5.4 Financial Management and Reporting
The financial transactions relating to this operation will be recorded and monitored by
computerized financial management system of the PMU and those of the implementing agencies.
The PMU, having considered the recommendations of the Finance Officer, should determine:
5



* ERP's Chart of Accounts as well as the format and content of Quarterly Reports and Annual
Financial Statements;
* the selection and adoption of accounting policies and accounting standards; and
* the need to include any supplementary notes to the Project Financial Statements in order to
enhance the presentation of a "true andfair view ".
Subject to a decision being made by PMU, these reports include financial statements (e.g. sources
and application of funds; expenditure classified by project components, disbursement categories,
expenditure types and implementing agencies, and comparison with budgets; short-term forecasts
of expenditure; unit costs for key items and comparison with budgets; etc.). The reports should
closely follow sample formats that are given in the World Bank's Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) Handbook.
5.5 External Audit
Extemal audits of the accounts of the program will be done annually. In due course, ERP - in
consultation with the World Bank and other donors - will appoint independent auditors in
compliance with the financial covenants that are expected to be contained in the IDA Credit
Agreement. Terms of reference for the external auditor are expected to be modeled on Annex
XIX, Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAHI) of the World Bank,
which contains "Sample Terms of Reference for the Audit of Project Financial Statements.
6.   RISKS
6.1. Country Risks.
The main country risk is in respect of the resumption of the conflict which is primarily
responsible for this emergency program. This could lead to destruction of newly rebuilt and
refurbished infrastructure, housing and businesses, and further lead to displacement of people.
This risk is mitigated by the acceptance by both parties (Ethiopia and Eritrea) of internationally
mediated peace agreement and the deployment of United Nations observers, and subsequently a
full peacekeeping force.
6.2. Project Risks.
* Institutional Arrangements /Program Implementation
The use of a management unit with qualified and experienced professionals to coordinate the
accounting and auditing arrangements ensures that this is a low risk. Implementing agencies are
already familiar with Bank procedures.
* Program Structure and Costing
Each component will be carried out by a separate implementing agency responsible to carry out
the respective activities under that component. The risk is therefore low.
* Internal Control Structure
The risk is low as the program will use already existing structures.
6



*  Accounting Standards, Finahcial and Management Reporting
The risk is medium, until the PMU responds to the requirements for regular financial and
management reporting. The use of professionally qualified and experienced personnel in the
PMU should mitigate this risk.
* Special Accounts, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation
This is a medium risk until PMU becomes familiar with Bank disbursement and procurement
arrangements, and also effectively coordinates the supporting documentation from the various
implementing agencies. Expertise is already available in the implementing agencies which have
separate ongoing Bank-financed projects.
* Staffing and Training
This risk is medium until staff key staff are demobilized to man key positions in the relevant
implementing agencies.
* Auditing Arrangements
Risk is low since the implementing agencies are already familiar with external audit
arrangements.
* Budgeting and Monitoring
Risk is low, as competent implementing agencies will prepare budgets and monitor the Program
activities.
Based on the above, the Program is rated LOW.
7.  THE WAY FORWARD
The financial management requirements for progressing this project further can be split into two:
(i) the immediate minimum requirements to comply with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02, and (ii) those
relating to eligibility for PMR-based disbursements.
7



ACTION                                          - TARGET DATE
1. Acceptable arrangements for the appointment of the   Negotiations
Finance officer.
2. Draft implementation plans covering financial
management arrangements by the various
implementation agencies.
3. Steering Committee appointed with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA.
4. Chart of Accounts finalized; accounting system
installed and operating.
5. Format and content of monthly/quarterly/annual
financial reporting agreed.
6. Financial procedures Manual developed incorporating Effectiveness
internal control procedures.
7. Special account(s) opened
8. External auditor appointed on approved terms of
reference.
8. LOAN ADMINSTRATION CHANGE INITIATIVE
At this stage, the financial management systems in place are not adequate to provide reasonable,
accurate, and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements
Given that this is an Emergency Program with a very short implementation period of 24
months; the fact that there will be harmonization of reporting requirements to accommodate
the various development partners; and the Program's  characteristics and risks into
consideration, approval has been sought from the Bank's Loan Department to dispense with
the requirement for the project to attain the minimum requirements  for PMR-based
disbursements for the program. This means that the traditional disbursement procedures would
be followed throughout the implementation period of the Program. However, the project
implementing agencies should still be required to prepare simplified PMR (financial reports)
to track expenditures.
9    CONCLUSION
Subject to the Required Actions and Next steps presented above being adequately
addressed by PMU prior to Effectiveness, the World Bank's minimum financial
management requirements will be satisfied. This also includes the timely establishment of
the Program Management Unit, and the appointment of a Finance Officer.
8



Attachment III
Terms of Reference
Environmental Analysis
Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Project
Background
Origin of the Emergency
Eritrea has suffered extensive damage from two sources: a border war with Ethiopia and
a prolonged drought. Until May 2000, the war with Ethiopia was contained to a relatively
limited area in Eritrea, with some 270,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) from the
border areas. Following the fighting in May 2000, there was a sudden and massive
increase in the internally displaced population, including evacuation from two large
regions in Eritrea (Gash Barka and Debub), which contribute some 70 percent of Eritrea's
total grain production. According to the Government's estimates, internally displaced
people number 1.1 million, including those displaced earlier. The sudden movement of
such large numbers of people in a total population of roughly 3.5 million, has put host
communities under considerable strain and it is estimated that about 170,000 people in
host communities have been affected. The war has also had a substantial adverse impact
on the agricultural sector - loss of food and seed stocks, loss of farm tools, damage to the
ploughed land, loss of livestock, and so on. Since the rainy season in Eritrea starts
towards the end of June, the outlook for agricultural production in the coming year is
very dismal, not just in the war areas, but throughout the country.
Several joint Eritrean Relief and Refugee Commission (ERREC)/UN/NGO rapid
assessment missions have suggested that, since the end of May, most of the displaced
people have been living without shelter and sanitation and many have sought safety in
remote areas, making access by the relief agencies extremely difficult.
Eritrea is also suffering from drought. Along with several other parts of the Horn of
Africa, the Sahel area of Eritrea (predominantly pastoral areas) has been particularly
affected by the failure of short rains two years in a row. Out-migration to more food-
secure and urban areas has begun. Some 316,000 people are estimated to have been
affected. Although widespread famine and disease outbreaks have not yet occurred,
partly owing to Government efforts to mitigate the adverse impact by providing food and
other assistance, there is a growing concern that the situation will deteriorate in the
coming months and early warning signals, such as rising morbidity rates and falling
livestock prices, are already evident.
Response of the Government and the International Community
The government and the people of Eritrea have immediately started reacting to the
humanitarian crisis on two fronts: (i) by providing emergency relief and assistance to the
IDPs and the hosting communities; and (ii) by organizing the available human and



financial resources in order to start the process of reconstructing and rehabilitating the
areas damaged by the recent invasion. The main actor for the first set of activities is the
Eritrean Relief and Refugee Commission (ERREC), which since the time of the
liberation struggle has provided essential food, shelter, and medical care for people in
need. It also coordinates all NGO activities in the country, ensuring that all people in
need receive critical goods and services.
ERREC has so far succeeded in providing most people with sufficient food, medicine,
shelter and other basic goods and services to prevent major loss of life or disease. It has
been able to do this by importing food and essential supplies using scarce foreign
exchange. An appeal to seek international support for emergency and relief needs has
been prepared by ERREC in collaboration with the UN system and launched during the
month of May, 2000.
The second set of activities are more directly connected with the proposed Emergency
Recovery Program. They require the involvement of all govermnent agencies, and an
even more significant contribution from the international community. The process of
reconstruction and rehabilitation of such large areas of the country will be tackled in two
phases: (i) a first set of immediate needs will be met through the financing of the ERP;
the activities financed will enable the country to restart some productive activities and
repair the infrastructure necessary to allow this process; (ii) the remaining and less urgent
needs will be addressed through individual sector programs prepared and financed in
collaboration with the development community.
The Government asked for the Bank's assistance in preparing the Emergency
Reconstruction Program (ERP) and presenting it to the international community for
financial support.
Emergency Reconstruction Program
Objectives
The overall objective of the proposed program is to assist Eritrea rapidly to rebuild its
physical and social infrastructure, help displaced and drought-affected people rebuild
their lives and resume their economic activities, and assist the government to maintain
macroeconomic stability through balance of payments support. The program is comprised
of five components: (a) agriculture, (b) infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation,
(c) private sector development, (d) social protection, and (e) balance of payments
support.
The overall cost of the program is estimated to be US$287.7 million, of which IDA will
finance US$90 million, and the government will contribute US$24 million equivalent. It
is expected that multilateral and bilateral development partners will finance US$173.7
million, through parallel or co-financing, so that there would be no financial gap in the
Program.
Likely Environmental Impacts
2



The program is not expected to have a significant environmental impact, but, because of
several issues related to the social protection, and private sector development
components, an Environmental Analysis of likely environmental impacts is to be carried
out. This is consistent with the program's rating as a Category B project.
The primary issues of concern relate to the impact of housing and settlement on the local
environment in the social protection component, and how potential environmental
impacts from the private sector component will be identified and mitigated.
The Private Sector Development component will provide assistance to Eritrean banks
whose portfolios have been affected by the destruction of assets financed by loans,
tentatively estimated at US$34 million. This assistance will take the form of: (i) debt
relief to approximately 3,000 war-affected enterprises (ii) a Loan Fund, to provide
investment and working capital to firms, especially to finance foreign exchange needs
(iii) technical assistance to the Banking sector.
The Social Protection component will include (i) refinancing of the existing Eritrean
Community Development Fund, which finances community-driven sub-projects for the
construction and rehabilitation of basic social infrastructure, as well as a micro-credit
scheme (ii) financing a housing program, which is expected to provide materials to
subsidize the cost of rebuilding houses of poor families (iii) a Community-Based Social
Safety Nets Program.
Environmental Analysis, Terms of Reference
Objectives
The objective of completing the Environmental Analysis of the Emergency Recovery
Project is to examine the project's potential negative and positive enviromnental impacts
and recommend any measures needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for
adverse impacts and to improve environmental performance. The Environmental
Analysis will give particular attention to the impact of the housing program on the
environment, and measures to ensure that sub-projects financed through the private sector
component are assessed for their possible environmental impacts and that these are
prevented or mitigated.
Scope of Services
The Environmental Analysis will be completed in a manner which fully reviews the two
areas of concern identified during project preparation.
Impact of Housing Program
The Environmental Analysis will review proposals to be financed by the project with
respect to the construction of new housing, with a view to assessing likely negative
environmental impacts on tree cover associated with, but not limited to,
3



* the impact of increased settlement densities on woodfuel use in project areas;
* the impact of new construction on forest cover;
* plans for mitigating these impacts through, for example, the use of alternative fuels
and cooking strategies; and low-wood using building technologies.
The Analysis will review the state of knowledge with regard to low-cost building
technologies in Eritrea, and will assess the trade-offs between providing subsidized
building supplies, or cash grants for construction.
Private Sector Development
The Private Sector Development component has been designed to finance a range of sub-
projects, and as such, has the characteristics of a Financial Intermediary type of project.
Before approving a subproject, the Fl verifies (through its own staff, outside experts, or
existing environmental institutions) that the subproject meets the environmental
requirements of appropriate national and local authorities and is consistent with OP 4.01
and other applicable environmental policies of the Bank. Procedures for carrying out sub-
project specific environmental screening and assessment were developed during
preparation of an earlier operation, and it is expected that these procedures, which rely on
carrying out environmental analyses for subprojects, will be followed.
The Environmental Analysis will review these procedures with regard to the adequacy of
Eritrea's environmental requirements relevant to the component and the proposed EA
arrangements for subprojects, including the mechanisms and responsibilities for
environmental screening and review of EA results. The Analysis should include an
assessment of the institutional mechanisms (including, as necessary, identification of
measures to strengthen capacity) for the subproject EA work. The Analysis should
include a plan for ensuring that subprojects are adequately reviewed.
Reports and Time Schedule
The Environmental Analysis should be completed in draft within 4 months of credit
effectiveness. Its recommendations should be consistent with overall Government policy
and project implementation modalities, and should comply with the environmental
review requirements in Eritrea's National Environmental Procedures and Guidelines;
and (to the extent possible for an Emergency Operation) with World Bank's Operational
Policy 4.01 Environmental Assessment.
The Environmental Analysis should be made available in Eritrea at some public place
accessible to potentially affected groups and local NGOs and must be submitted to the
Bank. Once the separate report is released locally and officially received by the Bank, it
is sent to the World Bank Infoshop through which interested parties may obtain it. It
should be made available in the Infoshop no later than 6 months after credit effectiveness.
4



