Report No. PID9382
Project Name                     Eritrea-Emergency Reconstruction Program (+)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Multisectoral
Borrower(s)                      Government of Eritrea
Project ID                       ERPE44674
Implementing Agency              Project Management Unit (PMU)
in Ministry of Finance, GOE
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                July 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 2000
Projected Board Date             October 2000
1.      Circumstances of the Disaster
Eritrea has suffered extensive damage from two sources: a border war with
Ethiopia and a prolonged drought. Until May 2000, the war with Ethiopia was
contained to a relatively limited area in Eritrea, with some 270,000
internally displaced persons (IDPs) from the border areas. After May 12,
2000, with the resumption of full-scale fighting and Ethiopian advances deep
into Eritrea, there has been a sudden and massive increase in the internally
displaced population, including evacuation from two large regions in Eritrea
(Gash Barka and Debub), which contribute some 70 percent of Eritrea's total
grain production and are host to 48 percent of the total population.
According to a joint Government/Donor/NGO assessment, the internally displaced
people number 1.1 million, including those displaced earlier. Of these, an
estimated 230,000 have been settled in 8 camps in central Eritrea, 90,000 have
crossed the border into Sudan and the remaining are without a secure place to
stay. The sudden movement of such large numbers of people, in a total
population of roughly 3.5 million, has put host communities under considerable
strain and it is estimated that about 170,000 people in host communities
themselves are seriously affected. The war has also had a substantial adverse
impact on the agricultural sector loss of food and seed stocks, loss of farm
tools, damage to the ploughed land, weakening and/or loss of livestock, and so
on. Since the rainy season in Eritrea started at the end of June, the
outlook for agricultural production in the coming year is very dismal, with
serious nationwide repercussions.
A joint Eritrean Relief and Refugee Commission (ERREC)/UN/NGO rapid assessment
mission at the end of May suggested that most of the displaced people are
living without shelter and sanitation and many are seeking safety in remote
areas, making access by the relief agencies extremely difficult. Because of
the sparseness of trees and shrubs in these areas, most IDPs are exposed to
the hot climate, and now rain. IDPs in the areas visited by the joint mission
comprised 65-70 percent children and 25-27 percent women. This underscores
the urgency for support to arrest further suffering and to begin the recovery
efforts.



As if the war were not enough, Eritrea is also suffering from drought. Along
with several other parts of the Horn of Africa, the Sahel area of Eritrea
(predominantly pastoral areas) has been particularly affected by the failure
of short rains two years in a row. Out-migration to more food-secure and
urban areas has begun. Some 316,000 people are estimated to have been
affected.
Another joint ERREC/UN drought assessment team characterized the humanitarian
situation in the affected areas as fragile. Although widespread famine
and disease outbreaks have not yet occurred, partly owing to Government
efforts to mitigate the adverse impact by providing food and other assistance,
there is a growing concern that the situation will deteriorate in the coming
months and early warning signals, such as rising morbidity rates and falling
livestock prices, are already evident.
2.      Preliminary Damage Assessment
Government ministries have taken the lead in assessing the damage caused by
the war. The Government has also asked the University of Asmara to prepare a
comprehensive report on the damages to households which should soon be
available and will be incorporated into subsequent documentation for this
project.   From a preliminary assessment, the estimated value of all
destroyed/looted property in the two administrative regions of Gash-Barka and
Debub alone is approximately US$ 860 million, and the bulk of the damage has
been on farming communities (see Table 1). The three banks (Commercial Bank of
Eritrea, the Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea and the Eritrea Development
and Investment Bank) estimate that assets worth $30 million financed by their
loans have been damaged or destroyed. The responsible line ministries have
made assessments of their immediate needs for reconstruction and it is these
estimates that have been used for costing this program. These needs include
replacement of farm machinery, inputs and livestock lost to conflict and
drought; reconstruction of roads and bridges, schools, clinics, water supply
and sanitation facilities damaged by the conflict; and the rehabilitation of
roads to improve access to drought-affected areas. The ERP team visited
Tesseney and Barentu, two of the towns most affected, and the damage was
considerable.
The accumulated macroeconomic stress since the conflict began in May 1998 has
been substantial. Very preliminary estimates suggests that the fiscal deficit
increased from 5.5 percent of GNP in 1997 to 35.1 percent in 1999, and is
projected to decline to 24.1 percent of GNP in 2000. The deficit has been
financed by a sharp increase in domestic borrowing, from US$4.8 million in
1997 to about US$160 million in 1999 and projected to total US$130 million in
2000. Gross international reserves have declined from the equivalent of 6.4
months of imports in 1997 to 3.3 months in 1999. Interviews with private
sector representatives, as well as the banks, suggest that the private sector
currently has almost no access to foreign exchange and this has had a
significant inhibiting effect on private sector activity.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be
able to download the complete original version by going to:
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/er44674.doc
- 2 -



3.      Impact on the Poor
With a per capita income of about US$200, Eritrea is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Even prior to the displacements that occurred in May
2000, the mobilization of almost all the men aged 18-40, as well as many
women, from throughout the country had already affected most families. The
massive displacement caused by the latest outbreak of hostilities - mainly of
women and children - has exacerbated this situation, as the displaced have
lost their assets, including homes, household goods, businesses, livestock,
and farm machinery and implements. People in drought-affected areas have also
lost most of their assets, primarily their livestock. In addition, as noted
above, the affected areas comprise the bread basket of Eritrea and the war-
affected people have lost the opportunity of planting crops during the summer
2000 agricultural season. Much of the country's most fertile farm land was
occupied at the start of the rainy season, giving farmers no time to prepare
their fields and plant their crops. The outlook for food production in the
coming year is grim.
4.      Response of the Government and the International Community
The Government and the people of Eritrea have immediately started reacting to
the humanitarian crisis on two fronts: (i) by providing emergency relief and
assistance to the IDPs and the host communities; and (ii) by organizing the
available human and financial resources in order to start the process of
reconstructing and rehabilitating the areas damaged by the recent invasion.
The main actor for the first set of activities is the Eritrean Relief and
Refugee Commission (ERREC) which, since the time of the liberation struggle,
has provided essential food, shelter, and medical care for people in need. In
the past two years, ERREC has been carefully tracking the situation in
communities throughout Eritrea through a well-organized communication network,
collecting regular updates from village councils and NGOs, and visiting camps,
ERREC regional office staff, and zoba and subzoba officers. It also
coordinates all NGO activities in the country, ensuring that all people in
need receive critically needed goods and services.
ERREC has so far succeeded in providing most people with sufficient food,
medicine, shelter and other basic goods and services to prevent major loss of
life or disease. It has been able to do this by importing food and essential
supplies using scarce foreign exchange. An appeal to seek international
support for emergency and relief needs has been prepared by ERREC in
collaboration with the UN system and launched during the month of May, 2000.
Many donors have responded to the Appeal, including Italy, the United States,
Denmark, the United Nations agencies (World Food Program, United Nations High
Commission for Refugees, UNDP, FAO, WHO, UNFPA, and UNICEF) which have
supplied funds, goods and logistical assistance. International NGOs,
including OXFAM, Save the Children (U.K.), Africare, ACCORD, International
Committee of the Red Cross and others, are working through ERREC to provide
water and sanitation facilities, tents and tarps, and essential food and
medicines to the refugee camps. But the total response has been well below 50
percent of what is needed.
The second set of activities is more directly connected with the proposed ERP.
They require the involvement of all government agencies, and an even more
significant contribution from the international community. The process of
reconstruction and rehabilitation of such large areas of the country will be
- 3 -



tackled in two phases: (i) a first set of immediate needs will be met through
the financing of the ERP; the activities financed will enable the country to
restart some productive activities and repair the infrastructure necessary to
allow this process; (ii) the remaining and less urgent needs will be addressed
through individual sector programs prepared and financed in collaboration with
the development community.
5.      Bank Response and Strategy
The Bank's response to the emergency situation in Eritrea has been threefold:
- Reallocation of: (i) US$1.2 million equivalent from the ongoing Health
Project (Credit No. 3023-ER) to finance essential drugs and other urgently
needed medical supplies; and (ii) up to US$3.7 million equivalent from the
ongoing Eritrea Community Development Fund (ECDF) Project (Credit No. 2823-
ER) to finance water supply and sanitation subprojects in areas with high
concentrations of IDPs, which are of high priority in the current emergency
situation. These two reallocations are fully consistent with the original
development objectives of the projects.
- Reallocation of US$20 million equivalent from the ongoing Human Resources
Development Project (Credit No. 3033-ER) to finance nutritional
supplements, kitchen utensils, stoves, agricultural inputs, and associated
transport services.
- Preparation of an Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP) in collaboration
with all interested development partners.
The Government asked for the Bank's assistance in preparing the ERP and
presenting it to the international community for financial support. The
Program, whose total cost has been estimated around US$300 million, has been
discussed with representatives of several multilateral and bilateral agencies
during a donors meeting organized by the Government in Asmara in July 2000, as
well as meetings with individual donor agencies. The response so far has been
good, both in terms of reaching agreement on the use of a single set of
procedures and administrative requirements, and in terms of allocation of
resources.
6.      Program  Objectives
The overall objective of the proposed program is to assist Eritrea rapidly to
rebuild its physical and social infrastructure, help displaced and drought-
affected people rebuild their lives and resume their economic activities, and
assist the Government to maintain macroeconomic stability through balance of
payments support.
The number of the people who will be able to return to their community of
origin in the immediate future is still uncertain. This is due to various
reasons: (i) the peace process has not been completely finalized; (ii) the
border demarcation process may take some time, and some aspects can be
controversial; and (iii) in the meanwhile, Ethiopian forces are still
occupying portions of Eritrean territory. For these reasons, the ERP will
focus on people and the services they need, rather than purely on
rehabilitation of infrastructure. This will mean that the program will provide
resources for both reconstruction of infrastructure for those communities
- 4 -



where people will be able to return in the short term, and provision of
temporary services (i.e., make-shift classrooms, mobile health facilities) for
those communities that will need to stay in temporary resettlements.
7.      Program Description
The program will comprise five components: (a) agriculture, (b) infrastructure
reconstruction and rehabilitation, (c) private sector development, (d) social
protection, and (e) balance of payments support.
The ERP will not operate in contested areas, in areas currently under
Ethiopian control, or in areas too close to the border where there is risk of
mines. For this reason, no demining is included, and no risk related to land
mines is anticipated.
The overall size of the program is estimated to be US$307 million, of which
IDA will finance US$80-100 million, and the Government will contribute US$30
million equivalent. It is expected that multilateral and bilateral
development partners will finance the gap of about US$180-200 million, through
parallel or cofinancing. On the basis of indicative pledges received, it is
expected that IDA resources will be used to fill the gaps in the following
components: agriculture; infrastructure; private sector development; and
social protection.
Preliminary Emergency Reconstruction Program Financing Plan
Source                                   Millions US$
IDA                                      80-100
Government of Eritrea                    20-30
Others                                   180-200
Total (estimated)                        280-310
Program components
Component A: Agriculture. This component will finance the purchase and
distribution of seeds, pesticides, fertilizers, agricultural tools, tractors
and machinery and livestock. The agricultural inputs will be given as a one-
time grant to war and drought-affected people to enable them to resume
agricultural and livestock production. The provision of tractors and heavy
machinery is needed for the following reasons: (i) the reduced availability of
agricultural labor calls for a partial shift from labor-intensive to
mechanized agriculture; and (ii) since part of the Gash Barka and Debub
regions will not be available for agricultural production in the near future,
there is need to expand the activities in the Sahel region, and this expansion
requires some irrigation work (small canal diversions, etc.).
Component B: Infrastructure Rehabilitation. This component will finance the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of infrastructure in the roads and energy
sectors. In the roads sector, the project will likely finance (a)
reconstruction of roads and bridges damaged during the conflict, including the
Tesseney Gash bridge, Dassie-Awgaro bridge, and Kuluku Gash bridge; (b) the
- 5 -



rehabilitation, upgrading and reshaping of links around the central belt to
provide improved access to settlements and camps of displaced people; (c) the
construction of a bridge and culverts, and reshaping of road sections in the
northern and northeastern areas of the country to improve access to
communities affected by drought and famine; (d) procurement of Culverts,
Gabions and some 255 linear meters of Bailey bridge sections; and (e)
preconstruction studies and design work, and construction supervision.
In the energy sector, the project will finance the rehabilitation of the
Massawa power plant heavily damaged during the recent conflict, the
replacement of power generators in Barentu and Tesseney, and repairs to the
electrical power systems in Adi-Quala and Senafe.
Component C: Private Sector Development. The private sector component will
provide assistance to Eritrean banks whose portfolios have been affected by
the destruction of assets financed by loans, tentatively estimated at US$30
million. This assistance will support those enterprises, with bank loans,
which have been affected by the war. This component will assist the private
sector by providing investment and working capital to firms, especially to
finance foreign exchange needs. Eritrea's total exports in 1999 is
tentatively estimated at US$18 million, and increasing this will be critical.
The private sector development component will be complementary to the Savings
and Credit Program being implemented under the Eritrean Community Development
Fund (ECDF), which provides small- and medium-sized loans to private
entrepreneurs.
Component D: Social Protection. The project will assist vulnerable households
by financing activities aimed at preventing further deterioration in the
welfare of those most affected by the consequences of the combined war and
drought, and at strengthening their capacity better to manage social and
economic risks. Specific activities include:
- Replenishing the Eritrean Community Development Fund. The ECDF finances
community-based subprojects, which in turn support the rehabilitation and
development of basic social and economic infrastructure, the provision of
basic social services and the income-generating capacity of poor
households. The Village Banks Savings and Credit Program, part of ECDF,
will be refinanced to allow it to provide loans of up to US$1,000 to groups
or individuals for income-generating activities. The Tier Two Credit
Program of ECDF will also be refinanced to allow it to provide loans of up
to US$10,000 to groups or individuals to finance businesses mainly in rural
areas.
- Housing program. Many households lost their houses and all their
belongings during the recent fighting. The project will provide some
resources and/or materials to subsidize the cost of rebuilding houses of
poor families. Special attention will be given to ensure that the process
of rebuilding houses does not have a negative impact on the already poor
natural resource base of the country. In this respect alternative options
for provision and distribution of materials, or construction of houses, are
being considered.
- Public works schemes. Some of the works financed under the infrastructure
component will be implemented through labor-intensive public works schemes,
providing income-earning opportunities to needy households.
- 6-



Component E: Balance of Payments Support. This component will provide
immediate, quick-disbursing balance of payments support. This component will
not be financed with IDA resources.
Emergency Reconstruction Program Costs- Preliminary Estimate
Component                           Millions US$
1.      Agriculture                      50
2.      Infrastructure rehabilitation    60
Energy                           25
Roads                            35
3.      Private sector development       45
4.      Social protection                32
ECDF infrastructure component    12
ECDF microcredit component       5
Housing program                  10
Public works program             5
5.      Balance of payment support       70
6.      Monitoring and evaluation        1
7.      Program management               1
8.      Contingencies                    48
TOTAL                                    307
8.      Project Implementation
The program will be coordinated by a small management unit (Program Management
Unit - PMU) housed in the Ministry of Finance. The PMU will be responsible
for ensuring that inputs are delivered on time to the various implementing
agencies; collecting information about implementation progress and making it
available to concerned development partners; and managing all international
procurement, and the project's special account. It will also be responsible
for fulfilling all auditing, financial management and reporting obligations.
The actual implementation of individual components will be the responsibility
of the relevant line ministries or government agencies, in particular:
Ministry of Agriculture (agriculture), Ministry of Energy (energy), Ministry
of Public Works (road and bridge rehabilitation and public works), Ministry of
Local Government (ECDF and housing), Ministry of Finance (BOP support), and
the Bank of Eritrea (private sector development).
The establishment of successful mechanisms to coordinate inputs and
contributions being provided by different development partners will be key to
-7 -



the success of the project. The Government stresses the importance of
adopting harmonized procedures for procurement, financial management, and
reporting. A meeting with all concerned development partners will be organized
during the appraisal mission to agree on common implementation procedures. A
second tier of coordination needs to be established at the level of each
implementing agency.
The ERP will have a strong monitoring and evaluation capacity, in order to
generate baseline data which are currently missing, and also to guide the
execution of the project, through impact evaluations. Moreover, to ensure
that the intended beneficiaries are being targeted, regular monitoring,
evaluation and quality control will be essential. An evaluation report
stating the living conditions of the IDPs should ideally be produced every six
months. This monitoring will be done in three steps:
(1)     A structured questionnaire will be administered to a sample of
households at the camps, to collect the "before" information. Since the
households are together, and more easily accessible, a large sample of
about 5,000 households should be adequate.
(2)     During rehabilitation, households will move back to their villages
and become less accessible. At this stage a random sample of households
from each Kebabi will be selected, so as to arrive at a representative
sample in each sub-Zoba, with probability proportional to the size of the
sub-Zoba. To these households is administered the same structured
questionnaire, to capture the "after" information. A sample of 2,117
households will be selected from Debub and 1,519 from Gash Barka giving
a total of 3,600. The households will be distributed between sub-Zobas in
proportion to the size of the sub-Zoba. The selected households will be
distributed according to the share of the type of household in the total
number of households in the Zoba. In other words, if in Deberewa,
agricultural households make up 70 percent of all households in the
Zoba, the sample should be representative, and contain 70 percent of
agricultural households.
(3)     The quantitative data generated in (1) and (2) will be supplemented
by information from administrative data, as well as information collected
through participatory assessments.
9.      Project Timing
The program will be implemented over eighteen months, starting in October
2000. The Government expressed the need for an exceptionally high share of the
IDA credit being eligible for retroactive financing to make it possible for
the Government to start using national resources to rehabilitate some of the
very critical infrastructure (e.g., bridges) before the beginning of the rainy
season.
10.     Environmental Category
The program is classified as environmental category B because no component is
expected to have a significant environmental impact. The primary issues of
concern relate to the use of pesticides, the impact of housing and settlement
on the local environment, and how potential environmental impacts from the
private sector component will be identified and mitigated. An Environmental
Analysis of the whole Program will be carried out and completed no later than
- 8 -



six months after the date of effectiveness. TORs for the Analysis will be
agreed upon during appraisal, and the agreement of the TORs will be a
condition for negotiations.
No major new construction is envisaged. In fact, the program will support the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-damaged roads, bridges, buildings,
small-scale irrigation systems, power transmission lines and community
infrastructure. It will also support rehabilitation and minor upgrading of
roads in the drought-affected areas to improve access of farmers and
pastoralists to markets and social services.
11.     Major Benefits and Risks
The proposed program is designed to provide Government access to an adequate
level of financing to begin responding to the humanitarian crisis caused by
the war and drought. Two major immediate benefits are to: (i) mitigate the
immediate impact of the humanitarian crisis through the reconstruction of
roads and bridges that will allow delivery of relief to the needy; the
provision of agricultural inputs to resume food production; and the social
protection component to directly assist households; and (ii) begin longer-term
reconstruction by rebuilding infrastructure; providing liquidity to farmers,
pastoralists and business owners to rebuild their livelihoods and prevent the
further deterioration of health and loss of life of people who were already
living on less than US$0.50 a day.
There are five main risks. First, there is the risk that the conflict
resumes. This could lead to the destruction of newly rebuilt infrastructure,
housing and businesses, and once again displace people who have returned to
their homes. However, the acceptance by both sides of the internationally-
mediated peace agreement and the deployment of UN observers in advance of the
full peacekeeping force reduce this risk considerably. Second, because
resources are fungible, there is the risk that project resources are used
indirectly for military spending. The deployment of the peacekeeping force
should provide sufficient confidence to Government to reduce defense
expenditure, and preliminary budget information provided by the Government
suggests that defense spending had already started falling in 2000. Third,
the large-scale mobilization means that not only are some key personnel from
the implementing ministries at the front, but that labor shortages will slow
the economy from getting on track again until there is some demobilization.
Again, it is expected that the deployment of the peacekeepers will provide
confidence to the Government to institute demobilization. Fourth, there is
risk of a poor rainy season with consequent low agricultural production. This
is going to be partially mitigated by expanding irrigated agriculture in the
Sahel region. Finally, there is a risk that other donors will not provide
sufficient financing to fully fund the program, or that Government will not be
able to contribute its share. In either case, further prioritization will be
required to fit the program to the available resources.
For information, please contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
9



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Laura Frigenti
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 14, 2000.
- 10 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
9
11



