E592
Volume 1
ERITREA - EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAMME
(ERP)
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
VOLUME I
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
r.KeyebXokel-M AvNo -39 -;
~  milteIe~i~eeIcon er<~ 
W:Asmara, Entre-a<'> . "-
E31
October, 2001
FILE COPY



TABLE OF CONTENTS
page
1. INTRODUCTION                                                    I
2. GENERAL BACKGROUND                                              3
2.1. COUJNTRY                                                   3
2.1.1. Physical and climatic features                        3
2.1.2. Socio-economics                                       3
2.1.3. Policy, legislation and institution                   4
2.1.4. Agricultural and livestock sectors                    4
2.1.5. The housing sector and fuel-wood supply               5
2.1.6. The private sector                                    5
2.2 ERITREA EMERGE]NCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAMME                 5
3. AGRICULTURE AND THE USE OF PESTICIDE COMPONENT                  6
3.1 ACTIVITIES AND GENERAL CONCEPT                              6
3.2 POTENTLAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS                             7
3.3 MITIGATION OF IMPACTS                                       8
4. HOUSING                                                        10
4.1 ACTIVITIES                                                 10
4.2 POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS                            10
4.3 MITIGATION OF IMPACTS                                      11
5. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT                           11
5.1 ACTIVITY AND IMPACT                                        I 1
5.2 REVIEW OF THE NEAPG IN RESPECT TO PRIVATE SECTOR           12
DEVELOPMENT
5.3 RECOMMENDATIONS                                            16
6. ISSUES                                                         17



ERITREA - EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAMME
(ERP)
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. INTRODUCTION
The concept of environment is complex and it has been undergoing through
evolution as more knowledge about environment and its linkages came into
light. Both the concerns about environment and the approaches to maintain
its integrity have been drastically changing and particularly after the Rio-
Earth Summit, 1992. The understanding of certain basic ecological concepts
are important tools in developing an appreciation of not only the problems
facing environmental quality and their negative impacts but also the
techniques, policies and regulations and partnership by which these problems
can be controlled. The concept of sustainable development is also complex
and multidisciplinary. In simple terms, it means to use mechanisms to
improve the welfare of human beings without damaging the natural resources
in the ecosystems. This demands that economic, social and ecological
requirements should be considered to create and maintain equilibrium
between use of natural resources and environmental sustainability. In most
instances, trade-offs between the use of natural resources and environmental
quality become inevitable, hence complementary policies and laws and
partnership of the private and public sectors as well as civil societies must be
adopted. This also emphasises on the principle that development and
environment should be interdependent rather than antagonists.
The environment of any organism consists of both biotic and abiozic
components and climatic factors. An ecosystem is any portion of the
biosphere in which there is a well-ordered flow of energy and materials
between organisms, including human and non-human populations and their
environment. The characteristics of any ecosystem are established and
perpetuated by regulatory processes such as reproduction, growth, behaviour
patterns, physiological adaptations, mortality factors and mass movement
such as immigration, emigration and migration. In an ecosystem, there are
elemental cycles such as the nitrogen and carbon cycles; where transfer,
utilization and dissipation of energy are continuously happening and the rates
at which these processes occur are regulated. About 35 to 40 out of the total
elements which exist are required by living organisms. They are continuously
passing from the abiotic environment into the bodies of living organisms and
back to the nonliving world in circular pattern known as elemental cycle. The
weight of a living substance (protoplasm) in an organism, a population, or a
community is its "biological mass " or biomass.
Any disturbance to these processes in an ecosystem results into its
inequilibrium. The ecosystems are not separate from each other in that there



is frequently some movement from one ecosystem to another, which forms
the roots of the global environmental management concept.
In Eritrea, the introduction of the modem concepts of environment and
environmental sustainability is of recent origin. However, the smallholder
farmers had always a tradition of soil/water conservation practices on their
crop fields which practice is unfortunately in decline. The British Overseas
Military Administration (BOMA) in Eritrea has also introduced the hillside
terracing and tree planting which was continued by the successive regimes
including the national government. However all these efforts were not
adequate to halt the environmental impacts of the wars, poverty, drought and
local practices in housing and fuel-wood supply.
At the point of independence, the country planned to drastically increase
domestic food production through extensification and intensification.
Although some increase was recorded, mainly through extensification, the
overall increase in food production was not only insignificant but also of
wide fluctuations between years. It was recognized that besides lack of soil
moisture, the severe degradation of the natural resources base for agriculture
was one of the main limiting factors for the result. In response to this and to
address the overall environmental issues, an intemational conference was
held at Asmara in 1995 to discuss the NEMP-E draft document.
Subsequent to this, the Department of Environment was established as a
national authority on environment. Some progress to address some of the
environmental issues has been achieved, but it is only a scratch on the surface
compared to the needs. The DOE has initiated environmental assessment
(EA) activities on some development programmes and projects which is a
positive entry point. As an instrument for carrying-out these functions, the
Department is using the National Environmental Assessment Guidelines and
Procedures manual (NEAGP), but the legal and technical instruments, so
vital to effectively tum words into actions, are only under process.
The ERP is, of which the environmental aspect is the subject of this report,
being financed mainly by the World Bank. Both the Bank and the DOE
require that the implementation of the ERP has to pass through
environmental assessment exercise of acceptable standards although there is
flexibility due to its nature of emergency.
This part (vol. 1) is the summary of the EA report involving three components
which are Agriculture and the Use of Pesticides, Housing Programme (as part
of the social protection) and Private Sector Development. The assessment
was carried-out by three study groups or one for each component. The groups
were organized on the merit of subject matter specialization and more
importantly on their local knowledge of intersectoral factors and interactions
affecting the environmental quality.
2



2. GENERAL BACKGROUND
2.1 .Couuotry
2.1.1. Physical and climatic features
Eritrea, located at the northem part of the Hom of Africa, has a landmass area
of about 125,700km2 or 12.57 million hectares. The total Eritrean coastline
is, inclusive thal. of the islands, 1720km. The different land uses in Eritrea are
given in (boxl), Eritrea is climatically of high diversity where 70% of the
total landmass :receives less than 400mm  i,    .   F-n
annual rainfall, while about 21% receives      r3
less than 200rim and only about 9%        T      A7R-i dt ofto(I]
receives more than 600mm. About 72% of                         42c  
the country is hot and about 14% is cool to        ;
mild. There is an extreme diversity in
altitude, soil, rainfall, climatic features,       .
landform  and vegetation, and based on  =
this, resulting into six Agro-Ecological  ,
Zones (AEZs). T hese indicators reveal that               3
.n.)O iiai ie~M of urAq~-utibed0dMtI
water is permanently scarce; and land is  hb for~raedcd
environmentally fragile and the natural : 
resources are highly degraded in most parts of the country. It also indicates
that a generalized approach in environmental management is not valid and
that the degradation of the natural resources base for agriculture is of the
greatest environrnental concem in Eritrea.
2.1.2. Socio-economics
Eritrea has a population of about 3.5 million with an average annual growth
rate of 3%. Population density is-high in the highland area where 60% of the
total population occupies about 19% of the country's total landmass area.
About 84% of the total population resides in rural area and the main
livelihood is traclitional or subsistence agriculture, pastoralism and artisanal
fishing.
The overall social services are poor where for instance there is I physician
for every 23,800 people. The average daily water consumption and sanitation
is poor. Access lo education is about 51%. Infant mortality is 72/1000 and
under five mortality is about 116 in 1000 births. Maternal mortality is 985 per
100,000 and the average life expectancy at birth is about 50 years. Food
insecurity is high where the prevalence of malnutrition and diseases in young
children is among the highest in sub-Sahara Africa (SSA). The average
national illiteracy rate is about 80% and among women it is 90%, while
access to basic education is about 51% with high levels of in quality.
The average GDIP income per caput was, at least before the 1998 war, about
USD 200 which is less than 60% of the SSA average. The economic growth
rate has fallen to less than 1% per annum from 7% in 1997. Currently, the
country is poor arntd highly dependent on food aid.



Environment has, as a cause and effect, close links with socio-economics.
These indicators show that industrialization is very low; the environmental
portion of the disease.burden is high and poverty is severe and all of these
affect the environment. This means that environmental management in
Eritrea should be: viewed from the stand points of economists, sociologists
and ecologists.
2.1.3. Policy legislation and institution
Eritrea places the issue of environmental sustainability as one of its highest
policy priorities. The country policy emphasises conservation and resanation
of natural resources and maintaining environmental quality with maximum
rationality in their use to ensure sustainability. To achieve this, the National
Environmental Management Plan (NEMP-E) was prepared in 1995 which
was adopted in 1997. Governnent has established the Department of
Environment, wit.hin the Ministry of Land, Water and Environment (MLWE)
as an authority on environmental management. The National Environmental
Assessment Procedures and Guidelines draft document were introduced in
1999.
Eritrea is signatory of the major international conventions and summits on
environment. The main among these include the Rio-Earth Summit (1992),
Convention to Combat Desertification (CCD) (1994); the Convention on
International Tra,le of Endangered Species (CITES, 1995); the Framework
Convention on Climate Change (1995) and the Convention on Biological
Diversity (1995). However, stating policy, publishing laws or signing
intemational treaties on environment is not a solution inse without
corresponding effective institutions, commitments and intersectorally
coordinated actions.
The Land Proclanmation has been gazzeted in 1995, but its implementation is
so far minimal. There are no legislations on water, environment and their
ancillaries. The MvLWE has some functional links with other public sector
institutions but still efficiency is weak to enable effective environmental
management.
2.1.4. Agricultural and Livestock Sectors
Agriculture is almost exclusively of the rainfed, crop/livestock based system.
It is traditional type featured with low productivity and high sensitivity to
drought due to the: extreme variability in rainfall within and between years.
Livestock, in the form of pastoralism, is practised mainly in the lowland areas
and the crop/livescock mixed system is practised in the highland areas and
parts of the southwestern lowland. Spate irrigated crop production is common
in the eastem lowland area; while irrigated horticulture is carried out
principally in the highland and the major river basins of the westem lowland.
The country suffers from severe soil infertility and shallow top-soils. These
sectors including artisanal fishery are the principal sources of food and
income for the. vast majority of the population. However, performance is
4



below subsistence hence the livelihoods of the rural populations are
vulnerable. Environmental management and in particular that of land and
water plays a niajor role in the stability of their livelihoods and that is why
development and environment should be partners. This implies that
environmental management need to focus on the natural resources base of
agriculture, livestock and fishery.
2.1.5. The Housing sector and fuel-wood supply
There is a severe housing problem in Eritrea where housing facilities, water
supply and sanitation are far below standard. The issue is not only the
standard but the inavailability of even the poor quality houses in urban
centres. This affects mostly the poor urban and the entire rural populations.
This factor is destabilizing the livelihood of the urban population through
high house rents and the burden of diseases associated with poor
environmental health. In rural areas, house construction is highly dependent
on plant materials with serious consequences on the environment and food
security.
The country has generally poor energy supply availability and in rural areas
the only energy source for cooking is biomass. In the past, even most of the
urban people vere highly dependent on biomass energy for cooking
purposes. This fuel-wood use practice has been a major cause for
devegetation and still it deserves to be one on the main focuses on
environmental concerns.
2.1.6. The private sector
Generally, the -private sector in Eritrea is too small to influence any
significant economic development in the country. It is mainly involved in
micro or small-scale services and low level manufacturing activities which
are mostly centred in Asmara. Traditionally, industrial activities are rnostly
based on agriculture of which the main are textile, tanneries and basic food
processing. The lprincipal cause is historically a chronic lack of an enabling
environment for lhe private sector to flourish.
2.2. Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Programme (ERP)
Eritrea has been always very sensitive to drought and this chronic food
insecurity problem was compounded by an acute food insecurity as a sequel
to the (1998-2000) border conflict with Ethiopia. The war has resulted into
extensive material and human losses in most parts of Debub and Gash-Barka
Administrative Regions. Prior to the third round of fighting (May 2000), the
number of intenially displaced people (IDPs) was 270,000 which was
reasonably manageable through local resources but this figure was raised to
aboutl. 1 million by the end of the war. These victims were partly placed in
camps and the resL became a burden to the existing communities.
The government response to this was to initially organize emergency relief
and subsequently to introduce reconstruction and rehabilitation process of the
5



affected areas. As the dimension of the problem grew become too huge to be
contained within local capacity, the government has made an appeal to obtain
international assistance to address the humanitarian problem (May 2000). In
line with this, the World Bank and the international communities came in to
give financial support, hence the establishment of ERP, Eritrea.
The process of the ERP consists of two phases. The first is aimed to address
the immediate needs of the IDPs involving the repair of infrastructure and
enabling the productive sector to restart operation. The second phase is aimed
to support achievement of self-sufficiency which will be addressed by the
individual sector programmes and financed in collaboration with the partners
in development.
The objectives of ERP are to assist the country in (i) addressing the problem
of the IDPs due to the war and drought so that they resume their normal life
and (ii) strengthening the national balance of payment.
The components of the ERP are (a) agriculture; (b) infrastructure; (c) private
sector development; (d) social protection; and (e) balance of payment
support.
Implementation of the programme is expected to produce both positive and
negative environmental impacts; hence environmental assessment of the
impacts that are likely to occur becomes a requirement. The ERP activities
have been classified within Category B and Category C projects in respect to
environmental assessment requirement.
3. AGRICULTURE AND THE USE OF PESTICIDE COMPONENT
3.1. Activities and general concept
The objective of this component is to assist the IDPs produced by the last
Eritro-Ethiopia war, the drought affected people and possibly limited number
of returnees to restart their normal economic activities in the war affected
zone. The former source of livelihood of the target beneficiaries has been
always subsistence agriculture and pastoralism. The approach taken for the
economic rehabilitation is by providing initial agricultural inputs. The
activities include supply of farm machinery for land preparation, pesticides,
fertilizers, seeds, animals for restocking, veterinary drugs and water pumps
for irrigation. This is also supported by soil/water conservation package.
In principle, the environmental problems in agriculture are related to
production systems. These are either intensive or extensive rainfed systems.
In both systems, the aim is to increase food production but the approaches
and environmental problems are different. In intensification system which is
maximumized in irrigated areas, productivity per unit area and total
production are increased through the use of optimum soil moisture and
agricultural inputs including agrochemicals. In the second system, or
extensification of area under cultivation which may be without or with
limited input use, the total production is increased.
6



The environmental problems associated with the intensification are those due
to irrigation where salinity or depletion of underground aquifer reserves may
occur. Perennia.1 flooding of fields may create hard pans in the soil, soil
toxicities, micronutrient deficiencies and reduction in nitrogen carrying
capacity. The water that runs over the mountains carries minerals and when it
is used for irrigation repeatedly it deposits them as salt layers in the soil.
Excessive use of pesticides may contaminate water bodies through run-off or
percolation. Repeated and inappropriate use of pesticides may lead to the
creation of resistance of pest populations to pesticide. The same principle
applies for veterinary drugs and biologicals. Reliance only on few selected
seed varieties may lead into the loss of genetic diversity and greater
vulnerability to the same pest-and-weather related problems. The loss of
indigenous crop varieties reduces the pool of genes available for breeding
plants.
In the extensive rainfed production system, the main environmental problem
is natural resources degradation associated with devegetation, poor land use
and management and particularly the cultivation of marginal lands due to
population pressure and progressively declining crop yields and soil fertility.
This factor exposes the land to soil erosion which may reach an irreversible
state or too costly to rehabilitate it. The problems associated to rainfed
system include: conversion of forest land to agriculture; expansion of
cultivation into steep hillsides resulting into soil erosion; degradation of
watershed areas with downstream siltation of dams and irrigation systems;
declining soil fertilities hence decline in crop yields and increased pressure
on communal property and fragile ecosystems such as grazing and woodland
areas.
3.2. Potential environmental impacts
The main potential negative environmental impacts attributable to the use of
pesticides are direct poisoning, chronic poisoning, carcinogenocity,
tetragenocity and resistance of pests to pesticides. Until recently, these
impacts were taken to be most deleterious. However, there is new evidence
which has been demonstrated on animals and humans that the effect is not
limited to genetic mutation in animals and cancer on humans. It causes also
reproductive disorders through the disruption of endocrine system where
estrogens and androgens are sex hormones. The effect is by mimicking
estrogens. The chlorinated hydrocarbons or organo-chlorines with the
properties of high stability, liposolubility and accumulation in adipose tissue
to harmful doses are the most dangerous group.
Fertilizers are less harmful than pesticides, but they may cause diseases such
as methemoglobinemia (blue-body syndrome) and cancer of the stomaclh,
oesophagus and bladder. Ingestion of nitrate contaminated water or food
which is also converted into nitrite in the food or digestive tract is the cause
of this poisoning. This may occur due to excessive use of fertilizer per unit
area which may be washed to contaminate water bodies or increase intake by
plants.
7



The potential negative impacts from exotic plant seed varieties and animal
breeds include economic loss by introducing transboundary pests (disease,
vector, insects and weeds) and genetic erosion of indigenous plants and
animals.
The potential negative impact from the use of agricultural machinery is land
degradation if the soil type and machinery used are not matched and if land
preparation techniques are faulty. The use of heavy machinery on marginal
land or techniques that ignore land topography may result into soil erosion
and destabilization.
The potential negative impact from veterinary drugs and biological products
include direct poisoning, drug residue on foods of animal origin, drug
resistance of pathogens and disease spread in the case of live vaccines. The
negative impact that may occur associated with irrigation pumps are salinity
and permanent depletion of underground aquifer reserves.
In the ERP area, the main positive environmental impact expected is
increased food supply availability and incomes through restarting crop and
livestock production. The major potential negative impacts are toxicity to
animals and hurnans related to the use of pesticides and fertilizers; genetic
erosion to indigenous plant and animal genetic pool and introduction of
exotic pests of plants and farm animals. The main activities and potential
negative envircnrental impacts of the Agricultural Component are
summarized belciw.
3.3. Mitigation of Impacts
Fundamentally, mitigation of the negative impacts from the use of pesticides
should rest on minimization of their use. The problem should be viewed from
both short and long-term perspectives. Mitigation of negative impacts due to
pesticides shoul,i start from the point of specification (pesticide, pest and
crop) to eliminale the use of the most dangerous chemical pesticides such as
chlorinated hydrocarbons (CHC) and to select the most efficaceous. In
respect to pesticides, the essential mitigation measure is to practice correct
handling of pesticides and their containers at every stage starting from the
arrival of the consignments at the port of entry to the application point and on
the field. This is to prevent contamination of living organisms, the soils,
water and objects through leakage of pesticide from damaged containers or
from the disposal of emptied pesticide containers.
At the point of distribution or repackaging of pesticide from large to small
containers, the operators, farmers and their families are at great risk.
Poisoning can be mitigated by either importing the pesticide in small size
containers to be distributed to the farmer directly, or by ensuring that all
operators and farmers are trained on the nature and use of pesticides and that
they use approved protective wear. Repacking of pesticides should
be carried-out in approved premises to avoid acrosols. This implies that stress
Q



should be on training of smallholder farmers or hired workers in the
commercial farnmers who are more vulnerable.
During application, . negative impacts on the operator, crop, feed, soil
bacteria, water, birds or on the biological diversity as a whole can be
prevented by using approved protective wear, approved procedures, using
only the correct dose of pesticide, using it only when its use cannot be
aVoided like for instance in the ERP which is emergency and following good
agricultural prac;ices. The potential poisoning at the household level which is
particularly serious for children can be avoided by using suitable small
containers for pesticides, storing in safe place, avoiding the use of such
containers for other purposes and educating the household members on
pesticide.
In the long-term, establishing integrated pest management (1PM) is the most
sustainable method environmentally and economically to mitigate the
negative impacts from pesticides. As a principle, the focus should be to
eliminate or lower the use of pesticide, and if it is used, an emphasis must be
made to comply with the specified safety precautions and knowledge.
The negative impacts of fertilizers can be mitigated by avoiding their
application rates in doses which are in excess to the intake capacity of the
plant so that excessive fertilizer is not present in the soil to contaminate water
bodies including wells, dam reservoirs or the sea water or that the crops
including weeds do not contain high levels of fertilizers to poison animals
through the intake of such feed. The use of fertilizers on crop fields located
imnnediately upstream of water bodies should be avoided to mitigate water
contamination. However, the ultimate method to mitigate the negative
environmental im.pacts from synthetic fertilizer is by minimizing its use. This
can be achieved by basing soil fertility maintenance on Integrated Plant
Nutrition Management (IPNM). Good agricultural practices, soil
conservation measures, fallowing and the use of biological fertilizers such as
compost, farm animal manure and inoculants for legume crops are some of
the most environmentally and economically sustainable methods to minimize
the use of synthetAIc fertilizer.
The negative environmental impacts from genetic erosion on indigenous
plants and animals can be prevented by avoiding importation of plant seed
varieties and anirnal breeds which have the potential to mix with the local
genetic pool. In the long-term, this can be totally prevented by establishing
multiplication centres for selected indigenous seed varieties or animal breeds
for such emergency needs. To mitigate the negative impacts of exotic pests of
crops and livestock, measures such as requirements on certificate of origin,
inspection, quarantine, treatment or vaccination, should be applied at the port
of entry, as the case may require.
Mitigation of negative impacts of soil erosion, salinity due to the use of
machinery such as tractors could be achieved by selecting the correct type of
machinery against soil types and not to use them on marginal land or arid or
fragile areas. In the case of irrigation, the loss of land due to salinity and the
9



depletion of underground water reserves due to overpumping can be
minimized by draining and introducing water supply/demand control.
4. HOUSING
4.1. Activities
Any person is entitled to live in a shelter or a habitat of the minimum
standards where safety and comfort are secured. Most of the IDPs have lost
their houses during the war and the aim of this component is to assist them to
have shelters of the minimum standards required. This ERP activity involves
construction of new houses and repairing of those which were war damaged.
The house construction practice in rural Eritrea is highly dependent on wood
and other plant materials. The typical house type in the Debub Administrative
Region is known as "Hidmo" where the walls are made usually of masonry
with mud, while the pillars supporting the roof and the roof itself are made of
wood products including large size tree trunks. In the past, to construct an
average "Hidmo ", about 100 trees and more plants were cut for the selection
of beams and pillars to have a strong structure.-Such houses have also krals
for keeping animals and these structures also consume considerable amounts
of wood.
In the lowland area, a typical rural house is known as "Agdo" and it is almost
totally made of wooden materials. The walls are of earth or wood and earth
combined. It has however variants where the walls could be of masonry if
stones are available in abundance but the roof is always of plant materials
because of the excessive ambiental temperatures during the hot season.
Other activities of this component associated with the rehabilitation process
of the IDPs are fuel-wood energy for cooking; cropping and grazing of
animals. These activities were also practiced before the displacement of the
IDPs. They will be cropping on fields that they had already, hence no further
devegetation is expected, although the availability of tractors on free of
charge may result into expansion of marginal land for cropping. The
restocking activity is unlikely to cause overgrazing because the animal
numbers to be provided are not going to exceed the size of the pre-war time.
However, all these activities were being carried-out by the IDPs without
adequate natural resources conservation measures in the past. Thus, the
activities will continue to exert their negative environmental impacts as
before and the problem should be viewed from the stand point of long-term
development which incorporates the issues of environment.
4.2. Potential environmental impacts
The main activities of this component which may produce negative
environmental impacts include construction of houses and fuel wood
collection. The positive environmental impacts are that the IDPs will have
safety due to the provision of shelter and they will be able to eat cooked food
which is palatable and safe. In both cases, the main negative environmental
10



impact is devegetation leading into land degradation due to soil erosion. The
already existing poor vegetation cover will be deteriorated further.
4.3. Mitigation of impacts
For mitigation of the potential negative impact due to devegetation for
housing in the highland area, where ERP will operate in some parts (Debub),
the "Hidmo" type of housing should be replaced by a housing model that is
economically and environmentally sustainable. An alternative is the use of
corrugated iron sheet roof and masonry walls. As scarcity of wood in the
highland has been acute since long time, the households in many areas have
already started to replace the roof of "Hidmo" with corrugated iron sheet.
The walls are already of stones in the "Hidmo" type housing and if only the
wooden roof is replaced, the negative environmental impact can be
prevented. The issue could be cost-effectiveness but at present the cost of
corrugated iron sheets is much more lower than that of wood for roofing and
labour costs are also cheaper. It must be reckoned that the environmnental
issue in rural housing is not only land degradation but also the present poor
hygiene and sanitary practices influencing health. The introduction of this
altemative can also mitigate the negative impact of poor hygiene.
In the lowland area, the walls could be replaced by locally manufactured
stabilized earth blocks plastered with rough concrete or by using stones
wherever the supply availability of the raw material is sustainable.
The mitigation measures against the potential negative impacts from using
fuel-wood are many, but their use is govemed principally by cost-
effectiveness considering the poverty of the rural communities. The approach
in rural areas should be by, depending on local realities, increasing the supply
of wood throughl for instance village forest plantation programmnes and
closing areas for natural revegetation and maximizing efficiency in the use of
fuel-wood. For instance, the improved stove which saves about 21% of
energy as compared to the traditional stove and which costs less than (Nfa)
300 should be introduced as an immediate measure of saving energy. The use
of kerosene stove should be considered to replace fuel-wood in both rural and
urban areas consi:dering the low cost of the stove (Nfa) 45 and an annual
kerosene consumption of 180 litres at a cost of (Nfa) 540 per household. The
cost seems to be high hence pricing policy for this commodity should be
introduced taken as investment cost on environment. Kerosene is also used as
source of light in rural areas. Investigation on alternatives should be
emphasised by the DOE.
5. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT (PSDc)
5.1. Activity and impact
At present, the private sector mainly consists of micro, small and medium
scale enterprises mostly engaged in trade and a relatively smaller number
which operate or run manufacturing and service activities. The majority are
solely owned and largely based on family labour and capital. The private
II



sector is thus still undeveloped due to, among others, the deliberate
mismanagement of the economy before the liberation of the country in
general and the socialistic policy pursued by the Derg regime in particular.
Albeit the present private-sector-led policy pursued by the Eritrean
Government pursuant to the issuance of the macropolicy of the country and
the subsequent lcgislations and measures taken thereafter, the private sector
is still faced with a number of problems. These include lack of access to
finance, shortage of utilities such as electrical power, inadequate skill
development support and access to modem technology schemes, small size of
domestic market and weak marketing capabilities. Like the rest of the
economy, it has 'been severely affected by the recent conflict with Ethiopia.
The environmental impacts from industrial activities in general and in the
ERP area in particular are at stage minimal.
5.2. Review of the NEAPG in respect to the private sector
development
The NEAPG d'ocument is a highly improved tool for conducting
environmental assessment of projects and thus marks a major step in
transforming the environment objectives and policy directives of the nation
into a set of cormprehensive institutional, regulatory and practical activities,
which can integrate environmental management with economic development
plans to ensure sustainable economic growth and development. Nonetheless,
it would need to be periodically reviewed in order to render it more practical
and complete in its coverage in the context of Eritrea's current and
foreseeable future realities.
The support for affected enterprises scheme of the emergency funding
program is geared toward enterprises which are predominantly micro and
small. Hence thcre is a general understanding that no major environmental
impact assessment is expected to be carried-out in connection with the
disbursement of the fund. The number of enterprises so far submitted to the
National Bank of Eritrea and the three financial intermediaries in connection
with debt relief fmding is 1564 in total. On the other hand, the enterprises
which are expected to seek loan fund from the financial intermediaries are
foreseen to be relatively large and accordingly calling for close screening and
evaluation as appropriate. So far, some 20 applications have been submitted
to the Bank.
The ultimate success of environmental assessment of projects depends upon
the establishment of workable institutional mechanisms, proper distribution
of responsibilities and coordination among the concerned institutions or
partners. According to the NEAPG, the implementation of the environmental
assessment procedures is the responsibility of the Department of
Environment in collaboration with other line Ministries and Government
agencies.
Efforts are currently being exerted by the Department to render the
environmental clearance mechanism  of projects as simple and straight
12



forward as pc,ssible: Investor-Investment Center-Technical Ministry-
Department of Environment-Technical Ministry-Investment Center-License
Office. With such an arrangement, the investor does not have to come to the
Department of Environment.
As far as environmental assessment of projects is concerned the experience
and outlook of the three financial intermediaries is more or less similar.
Environmental clearance certificate is not usually pressed for. However, it
does not mean that the Banks are totally lenient with enterprises with obvious
negative environmental impact.
The environmenlal impact monitoring and evaluation of projects is relatively
briefly covered in the NEAPG document. So far the Department of
Environment has not delved into the monitoring of projects under
implementation 10 the desirable extent. This function is left to the project
owner which efficiency is questionable. Furthermore there is a general
feeling that it wculd be difficult or rather impractical to monitor or evaluate
all projects, which are screened and/or cleared, particularly those falling
under Category C.
13



SUMMARY-ACTIVITY, SUB-ACTrVITY, NEGATIVE AND MITIGATION
A. AGRICULTURE COMPONENT
ACTIVITY                                               FAULT                     POTENTlAL NEGATIVE IMPACT                        MITIGATION
1. Pesticide
*     Procurement            *    %,rong specification               *    direct poisoning on humans,          use correct specification in accordance
aninmals, fish, nucroorganisms       with the approved list
*     Poor handling stonng
at port of entry       *     two heavy pack inadequate and     *    carinogenecity in nammalians    *    use approved procedures in handling and
unsafe store, and poor            *     tetragenecity in manrnalians         stoniig pesticides
lading/unloading practice lead to  *   endocrine system disturbance
damage of containers and leakage        mnamumlians
of pesticides
*    Storing and
distnrbuting to fanners  *   unsafe store                      *    pestcide resistance of pests    *    use approved repacking containers,
at regional level      .     no premises and equipment for     *    high cost and forex                  premises procedures
distnrbution lead to free access  .     low efficacy                   *     use approved protective wear when
I akage. aerosols, contact with the                                          handling pestcides
bhdy of operators                                                      *     safe store at famier's home
*     Application
n no protective wear                                                         *    test efficiency of sprayer before use
*    defective sprayers
*     wrong formulation leads to
cliermcal residue in food crop and
crop renains
regular food laboratory analysis to
deterrrtne residue levels
*     Disposing empty
container               .    using emnptied containers for T                                             use approved disposal method for
food/water storage will lead into                                           containers
contamination
2. Fertilization
*     Handling at port of
country                .     damage of container lading to spills  n  increase in growth of sea-water  *  avoid damage of container by cornect
plants due to increase in fertility  handing, stonng
leads to depletion of oxygen -
death of fish -asphyxia
*          Application
*     wtong application rate leading to  *   contaminaion of water leads to  *    use correct application rate to avoid
ex:ess in soils                         nitrite/nitrate hunmai/anirTial      water pollution by run-off, percolation
*     applying upstream of near wells,       poisoning                            into ground aquifer
dams, to be washed and percolated      (methoglobinemia)and excessive
in underground aquifer reserve         content in plant (DM) potsoning
livestock
3. Seed importation
*     Procurement
*     wr3ng specification of seed       n    genetic erosion in indigenous        use coireci specification
plant gene pool leads to
economic lose
*     Handling at port
country                *     inasequate inspection quarantine  *    disease and insect pests        *    enforcing inspection, quarantine
procedures to control pests and         penetraton causing economic         treatmnent cenificatioii
unclesired seeds                        loss
*    darnaged seed                      n    entry of undesired weeds
*     sampling for weed seed presence
*    no gemination hence economic
loss
*    testing germination
4 Animal import
Procurement
*    wrcng specification in respect to  *    genetic erosion of indigenous        use correct specification
breed or strain and infected place of   animal breeds lowering potential
ongin                                   productivity
*     Handling at entry port
poor inspection, quarantine.      *     disease vector entry causing   .     inplemwnt satintary nicasures
treatiient                              economic loss
5 Veterinary Drugs
Proncuremein
wrong specification               *     Poisoninig huanaris                  use conedc specificalios
FHandling at enory point
lack of testing                   *     failure, unsafe drug hence     *     testing safety efficacy. Iiiiocuily
econonic loss
*     Application
incorrect use modality            n     drug resistance                *     use correct prcedure
14



*    drug residue in food hence
health hazard to humans
*     wrong disposal of used insuwment
*    accidents                       *     use correct disposal method
6. Farm machinery
*     Procurement
*     wrong specirication offmachne to  *    soil erosion infertility             use correct specification
soil type destruction of soil     *    disturbance soil bacteria
shtcture
pplication              *    wrong technique in land           *    soil erosion                    *     traitiing operators
preparation
*     use in marginal land
*     destuction of vegetation
avoid fragile land for cultivation
7. Water pump
Application
*    ovetpumping leading to            *     Ioss of land and loss of water  *    avoid overpunping
iuderground water reserve              supply permanently              .    control supply and demand of water
dlepletion and salinity                                                     throligh legislation
8. Bee colony
Procurement
*    wvrong specificaion                *    wrong strain, bee disease,     *     corect specification freedom ofdisease
*     infected origin                        economuc loss                        of place ofongin
*     Honey production
*     wrong bee-hive                    *    child morbidity/ortaluty       *     appropnate bee-hive design
*    Foor techniques                         contamnataon with toxin              training onhygienic honey handling
*     poor honey storage                     (clostiiding butolinum)
B. HOUSING COMPONENT
1. House
*     Construction
*     d-vegetahon                       *    soil erosion infertility low food  *  use altemative construction matenal
achieving                            such is
*    climate change                             -    corrugated iron sheet roof
*     desertification                           -    masonry or mud (Debub)
-    corrugated iron sheet roof
with mat ceiling
-    stabilized earth block walls
(Gash/Barka)
2. Fuel wood
*     For cooking
devegetation                      *    ditto                           .    conduct investigation by AEZ
use alermative energy source such as
-     village tree planting
-    promote Kerosene through
pncmng policy
-    promote energy saving
stove at econonuc pnce
reduce fuel wood market
through legislation aiid
pricing
15



5.3. Recomnmendations
The major recommendations reached further to the review of the NEAPG
include the following:
To start with the NEAPG should be rendered legally binding and
thus th- draft law on environmental protection which is presently
under preparation by the Department of Environment should be
finalized as early as possible.
The effective application of the NEAPG calls for the building of
adequai.e awareness among all concemed govemment agencies,
stakeholders and project owners about its purpose and the need for
their concerted efforts to ensure its effective implementation. The
steps which have already been taken towards this end i.e. running
workshops, dissemination of written materials and oral
information on environmental protection etc. should be further
expanded and deepened.
The NEAPG document would need to be translated into Tigrigna,
Arabic and other local languages as appropriate and thus the step
already initiated in this direction by the Department should be
expedited.
Projects which are not so far covered and/or handled will need to
be properly identified and appropriate questionnaires would need
to be prepared. To the extent possible the questionnaires should be
in a simplified way in order to render them investor friendly.
The establishment of the Department of Environment as the
central igovernment agency to ensure the sustained safeguard or
protection of the environment of the country and the identification
of other govemment organizations, stakeholders and last but not
least project owners as important partners in this effort are no
doubt very commendable. Equally commendable is also the step
taken to come out successfully with highly useful environmental
procedures and guidelines. The above steps would however
remain incomplete if a functional and smooth working mechanism
is not established at all levels of interaction between the parties
concemed.
To this effect, the line of communication between the Department
and its zonal representative offices should be made as much as
possible direct and less bureaucratic. The number of the staff in
the Zobas responsible for environmental matters should be
increased and trained. Since environmental issues generally
involve national, provincial and local govemment agencies amd
cover a broad range of responsibilities, efficient coordination
among all concemed is of paramount importance. The training
programs of the Department and its collaborating governmental
16



organizations must be further strengthened and expanded through
on the job training, workshops, awareness building programs etc.
Monitoring. and evaluation of projects should not be simply
deferred in order to ensure the taking of timely conrective
measures and to contribute to the improvement of the
Department's capability. The monitoring and evaluation of
Category C projects should at least be carried out on stratified
sample basis. Reclassification of projects, if deemed necessary,
could then be made on time. The section on monitoring and
evaluation in NEAPG would need to be further developed to
include more details on monitoring responsibilities, monitoring
methodologies and measures to be taken in case of non-
compliance to agreement already entered in.
6. ISSUES
There are some fundamental issues that should be addressed to improve the
efficiency in environmental management even at this initial stage.
* There is need to update the NEAPG on technical, coverage and local
adaptability grounds.
* The environmental law must be published and enacted, but it must be also
in coherence with other national laws.
* The institutional set-up in respect to the functions and powers of the
actors in the public sector and partnership of the private sector and civil
society needs to be streamlined and strengthened.
17



