Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3434 ER 
GRANT NUMBER H051 ER
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Reconstruction Project 
–
Supplemental Financing) 
 
between 
 
STATE OF ERITREA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 25, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3434 ER 
GRANT NUMBER H051 ER 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, June 25, 2003, between STATE OF ERITREA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Emergency Reconstruction Project) dated December 6, 
2000, as amended from time to time (the Development Credit Agreement), for the 
purpose of assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
(B) 
Part C of the Project is carried out by Bank of Eritrea (BE) with the 
Recipient’s assistance, and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient has made available to 
BE the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement; 
(C) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of  the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,900,000); 
(D) 
the Association was authorized under Resolution No. 549, adopted by its 
Board of Governors on September 29, 2002, to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants and the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
“Grant”) is being financed out of the funds so transferred; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985  
(as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) 
of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
(i) 
Article I;  
(ii) Article 
II; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant; and 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development 
Credit Agreement, as amended, have the respective meanings therein set forth:  
(a) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement dated December 
6, 2000 for the Project, between the Recipient and the Association, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the “General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated 
 
January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999); 
 (b) 
“Environmental Analysis” or “EA” means  the Environmental Analysis 
of the Project, dated October 30, 2001, and to be updated in a form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association and submitted to the Association pursuant to Section 3.01 
(d) of this Development Grant Agreement;  
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.02  of this Agreement; and 
(d)  
“Integrated Pest Management Plan” of “IPMP”  means the Integrated 
Pest Management Plan of the Project, setting forth a strategy and an action plan for 
adequate pest management practices, including vaccines, veterinary drugs and supplies, 
to be prepared by the Recipient as part of the updated EA, in a form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association and submitted to the Association pursuant to Section 3.01 
(d) of this Development Grant Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
10,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purpose of the Project,  open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in BE on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.06.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 3.01 (a) (i), (b) 
3.02, 3.03, 4.01, 5.01 and 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1 
(except the table in paragraph 1 thereof ), 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 thereto are incorporated in the 
Development Grant Agreement, with the following modifications in said Sections and 
Schedules, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) 
the term “Credit” shall be read as “Grant”; 
(b) 
the term “Borrower” shall be read as “Recipient”;  
 (c) 
    the term “this Agreement” or “the Development Credit Agreement” 
shall be read as “the Development Grant Agreement”;  
Page  6
-
5
-
(d) 
     new sub-paragraphs (e) and (f) are inserted under paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, to read as follows: 
 
“
1.
(e)   
Updated EA
The Recipient shall: 
(i) 
not later than three months after the Effective Date of this 
Agreement, prepare and submit to the Association an updated 
EA, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and  
(ii) 
ensure that the Project implementation shall at all times be 
carried out in compliance with the screening process 
mechanisms established in the updated EA to identify 
environmental and social adverse effects and address them; 
(f)  
IPMP
The Recipient shall: 
(i) 
not later than three months after the Effective Date of this 
Agreement prepare, as part of the updated EA, and submit to the 
Association a IPMP, in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(ii) 
ensure that purchase of any vaccines, veterinary drugs and 
supplies, and any pesticides, herbicides or sprayers by farmers 
shall be in compliance with the requirements of the  IPMP, 
acceptable to and approved by the Association.”; and 
(e) 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
renumbered as paragraph 3. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, and the Recipient’s reporting obligations set out in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish  
to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Grant through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 4.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has furnished to the Association a work plan and 
procurement plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
the Recipient has furnished to the Association a copy of the audit report 
of the Project accounts pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, 
in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and  
(c) 
the Recipient has furnished to the Association the terms of reference for 
carrying out the EA and IPMP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 4.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P.O. Box 895 
 
Asmara 
State of Eritrea 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(257) 22 38 27   
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
STATE OF ERITREA 
 
By /s/  Girma 
Asmerom 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/  Callisto 
Madavo 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent)
%
of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Goods  
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
(b) Part B of the Project 
(c) Part D of the Project 
 
2,290,000 
4,800,000 
650,000 
100%  of foreign 
expenditures and 100% 
of ex-factory price of 
locally manufactured 
items and 95% of other 
local expenditures 
 
(2) Works 
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
(b) Part B of the Project 
(c) Part D of the Project 
 
1,125,000 
600,000 
650,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 100% 
of ex-factory price of 
local construction 
materials and 95% of 
other local expenditures 
 
(3)  Consultants’ services 
 
35,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 85% 
of local expenditures 
 
(4)  Unallocated 
 
750,000 
 
TOTAL
========
10,900,000         
