Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3434-ER
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Reconstruction ProjectProject)
between
THE STATE OF ERITREA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 6, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3434-ER
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 2000, between THE STATE OF ERITREA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part C of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, will be 
carried out by Bank of Eritrea (BE) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to BE the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and BE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth  below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(b)
"BE" means the Bank of Eritrea, the Borrower’s central bank, established 
and operating pursuant to Proclamation No. 93/1997;
(c)
"CBE" means the Commercial Bank of Eritrea, established and operating 
pursuant to Proclamation No. 49 dated January 31, 1994; 
(d)
"HCBE" means the Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea, established and 
operating pursuant to Proclamation No. 6/1991;
(e)
"EDIB" means the Eritrea Development Investment Bank, established and 
operating pursuant to Proclamation No. 91 dated October 28, 1996;
(f)
"MOLG" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government; 
(g)
"ECDF" means the Eritrea Community Development Fund, a unit established 
by the Borrower within its Ministry of Local Government by a Directive dated January 
2, 1996, whose objective is to manage the funding of community-based projects to 
improve the economic and social conditions of the poor people;
(h)
"the Emergency" means the extraordinary event of limited duration which, 
for the purposes of this agreement started in May 2000, and which was caused by the 
escalation of the border conflict between the Borrower and the Federal Democratic 
Republic of Ethiopia and by the drought;
(i)
"PMU" means the Borrower’s Program Management Unit, established within 
MOF for the purpose of implementing the Emergency Reconstruction Program; 
(j)
"Procurement Manual" means the manual detailing the procurement 
arrangements agreed between the Association and the Borrower to be utilized in the 
implementation of this Program;
(k)
"the Program" means the Borrower’s Emergency Reconstruction Program 
agreed with the donors and detailed in the Aide-Memoire from the Emergency 
Reconstruction Project’s appraisal mission in September 2000; 
(l)
"Special Account" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(m)
"Nakfa" means the currency of the Borrower; 
Page  3
(n)
"PFI" or "Participating Financial Institution" means, jointly, CBE, HCBE 
and EDIB, to which, for the purposes of Part C. 2 of this Project, BE shall lend 
proceeds of the credit for re-lending to Final Beneficiaries for Subloans (as 
hereinafter defined);
(o)
"Final Beneficiary" means, for the purposes of Part C of the Project, a 
private commercial enterprise legally established and operating in the territory of 
the Borrower, which meets the criteria agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association, and described in the PIP (as hereinafter defined) and to or for which a 
PFI has made or proposes to make a Subloan (as hereinafter defined); 
(p)
"Participation Agreement" means, for the purposes of Part C of this 
Project, the agreement between BE and a PFI through which BE shall lend proceeds of 
the credit for re-lending to Final Beneficiaries for Subprojects;
(q)
"PIP" means, for the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Project 
Implementation Plan adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01, paragraph (d) of 
this Agreement, containing detailed arrangements regarding the implementation of the 
different activities under Part C of the Project, including inter alia, the 
institutional responsibilities, reporting structure, review and monitoring, 
procurement, disbursement and financial management of Part C of the Project;
(r)
"Project Agreement" means, for the purposes of Part C of this Project, 
the agreement between the Association and BE, of even date herewith, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(s)
"PSR Unit" means the Private Sector Reconstruction Unit, to be 
established within BE pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
for the purpose of overall implementation and monitoring of Part C of the Project; 
(t)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made under Part C. 2 of 
this Project by a PFI to a Final Beneficiary out of the equivalent of the proceeds of 
the Credit relent to PFI under the Participation Agreement; 
(u)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BE pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement; 
(v)
"Financial Intermediary" and "FI" mean, for the purposes of Part D of 
this Project, a village credit association, a credit union or a peasant association, 
or any other entity engaged in lending activities to Beneficiaries and which meet the 
respective eligibility criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(w)
"Operational Manual" means, for the purposes of Part D of this Project, 
the manual adopted by the Borrower on January 2, 1996, containing, inter alia, 
criteria, procedures and guidelines for the administration, promotion, appraisal and 
supervision of Subprojects and Microcredit Subprojects;
(x)
"Microcredit Subproject" means an economic, business or income-generating 
development project to be financed under Part D.2 of the Project and which complies 
with the eligibility criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(y)
"Micro Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by an FI to a 
Beneficiary for financing a Microcredit Subproject under Part D.2 of the Project; 
(z)
"Micro Subloan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
an FI and a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a Microcredit Subproject under 
Part D.2 of the Project; 
(aa)
"Solidarity Group" means a group of people organized for the purpose of 
applying for financing to implement Microcredit Subprojects under Part D.2 of the 
Project;
(bb)
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means, for the purposes of Part D of 
this Project, any agreement entered into between ECDF and an FI pursuant to Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(cc)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by ECDF to a 
Beneficiary using the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part D.1 of the Project;
Page  4
(dd)
"Subproject" means a development project, under Part D.1 of the Project, 
which complies with the eligibility criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(ee)
"Subproject Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
ECDF and a Village Administration for the purpose of carrying out a Subproject under 
Part D.1 of the Project;
(ff)
"Village Administration" means a locally elected council of 
representatives in a village or sub-zoba, established pursuant to the provisions of 
the Local Government Proclamation No. 86 dated April 15, 1996;
(gg)
"Community Development Committee" means an elected committee recognized 
by the Village Administration, established under the provisions of the Local 
Government Proclamation No. 86 dated April 15, 1996, to represent a group of people 
organized for the purposes of implementing a Subproject;
(hh)
"Beneficiary" means: (i) in respect of Part D.1 of the Project, a 
community which is represented by a Community Development Committee; and (ii) in 
respect of Part D.2 of the Project, a Solidarity Group or a small enterprise or an 
individual engaged in carrying out income-generating activities, all selected in 
accordance with the respective criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(ii)
"Project Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning January 1 each 
year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-nine million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 69,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of Final Beneficiary or a 
Beneficiary under a Subloan or a Microcredit Subproject and a Subproject, 
respectively, to meet the costs of goods, works and services required for such Subloan 
or a Microcredit Subproject and a Subproject, and in respect of which withdrawal from 
the Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars threespecial special deposit accounts (Special Account A for Parts A, B and 
E.1 of the Project, Special Account B for Part C and Special Account C for Part D and 
E.2 of the Project) in BE on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Associationdeposit account. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002,[max up to 2 to 3 
years] or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2011, and ending November 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2011, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out the Part A, B, D and E of the Project [pursuant to the provisions of the 
Implementation Agreement] with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause BE to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations 
Page  6
of BE therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable BE to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall assist BE in carrying out Part C of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(d)
For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) make 
available part of the proceeds of the Credit to BE under a subsidiary agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and BE (the Subsidiary Agreement) under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association; and (ii) exercise its 
rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. With respect to the goods under the category of eligible imports 
listed in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall not use or 
permit to be used any such goods for military purposes. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Parts A, B, D and E of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each calendar year of Project implementation 
audited in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such calendar 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such fiscal year as so 
Page  7
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the fiscal 
year audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal yearfiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
[an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
BE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower’s MOLG Directive of January 2, 1996, establishing the ECDF 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of ECDF to perform any of its obligations; and
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution of ECDF or the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  any events specified in paragraphs (a), 
(b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Page  8
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement have been appointed, as provided in such Section and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, on terms of reference 
acceptable to the Associationas provided in such Section; 
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial management system, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association;
(c)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
BE; and 
(d)
the Borrower has completed and adopted the PIP for Part C of the Project 
in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BE, 
and is legally binding upon BE in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and BE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BE in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the  purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
P. O. Box 895
Asmara 
Eritrea 
Telex:
583492421150 
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  9
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE STATE OF ERITREA
By /s/ Semere Russom
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to such Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(to be Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of ex-factory
price of locally
manufactured items
and 95% of other
local expenditures
(a) Part A of the
   11,550,000
Project
(b) Part B of the
    7,700,000
Project
(c) Part D of the
      770,000
Project
(d) Part E of the
390,000
Project
(2)
Works
100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of ex-factory
price of locally
manufactured items
and 95% of other
Page  10
local expenditures
(a) Part B of the
   12,700,000
Project
(b) Part D of the
    4,240,000
Project
(3)
Consultants Services
100% of foreign
including auditing
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(a) Part B of the
    1,540,000
Project
(b) Part C(3) of
    1,540,000
the Project
(c) Part D of the
390,000
Project
(d) Part E of the
390,000
Project
(4)
Subloans under
   13,860,000
100%
Part C(2) of the
Project
(5)
Loans for PFIs under
    7,770,000
100%
Part C(1) of the 
Project
(6)
Micro Subloans
    1,540,000
100%
under Part D of
the Project
(7)
Operating Costs
95%
(a) Part D of the
770,000
Project
(b) Part E of the
770,000
Project
(8)
Unallocated
    3,450,000
TOTAL
   69,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
Borrower on account of the Project implementation including management and monitoring, 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 24,255,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 31, 2000; (b) payments made under Categories (4) and 
(5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above until the PSR unit is established in 
BE in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (c) 
payments made under Categories (4) and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above 
for each PFI until the Participation Agreements have been executed on behalf of the BE 
and each CBE, HCBE and EDIB, respectively; and (d) payments made under Category (6) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 above unless the terms and conditions for the 
Subloans have been met under Schedule 4 and the Operational Manual.
Page  11
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for civil works costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for consultants firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; (d) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (e) all operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) rebuilding 
physical and social infrastructure; (ii) helping people displaced and affected by the 
Emergency rebuild their lives and resume their economic activities; and (iii) 
rehabilitating the private sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Sector Rehabilitation
The acquisition of: (i) goods, including seeds, fertilizer, agricultural tools 
and animals; and (ii) tractors and machinery to support plowing and irrigation 
activities.
Part B:
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1.
Road Sector:
The carrying out of the: (i) reconstruction of roads and bridges damaged during 
the Emergency, including the Tesseney Gash bridge, Dassie-Awgaro bridge, and Kuluku 
Gash bridge; (ii) rehabilitation, upgrading and reshaping of roads/links around the 
central belt, including the Barka bridge, to provide access to settlements and camps 
of displaced people; (iii) construction of small bridges and culverts, and reshaping 
of road sections in the northern and northeastern areas of the Borrower’s territory to 
improve access to communities affected by the Emergency; (iv) acquisition of Bailey 
bridge sections, vehicles, office equipment and provision of technical advisory 
services for Program implementation and management to the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Public Works Infrastructure Department; and (v) strengthening of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Public Works Infrastructure Department capacity to carry out 
pre-construction investigations, feasibility studies, design work, contract 
documentation and construction supervision.
2.
Energy Sector
The rehabilitation of the Massawa Hirgigo power plant.
Part C:
Private Sector Development
1.
Support to Affected Enterprises
The provision of loans to CBE, HCBE and EDIB to provide debt relief for their 
respective borrowers affected by the Emergency.
2.
Investments
Provision of Subloans through PFIs, to finance fixed investment and permanent 
working capital needs of private enterprises.
3.
Technical Assistance
Strengthening the capacity of the BE, CBE, HCBE and EDIB to carry out activities 
under Part C, including the provision of technical advisory services: (i) on banking 
regulations and banking supervision for the BE; and (ii) on operations management, 
international banking and management information systems/computer systems for CBE, 
Page  12
HCBE and EDIB.
Part D:
ECDF
1.
Infrastructure
Promotion, identification, preparation and implementation of community-based 
Subprojects and the provision of grants for the rehabilitation and development of 
basic social and economic infrastructure including: (i) primary health care and basic 
education facilities; (ii) rural water supply systems; and (iii) rehabilitation of 
rural feeder roads.
2.
Micro-Credits
Support of the ECDF through the refinancing of: (i) loans to groups or 
individuals for income-generating activities (Village Banks Savings and Credit 
Program); and (ii) loans to groups or individuals to finance business mainly in rural 
areas. 
Part E:
Project Management
1.
PMU
Supporting the management of Parts A, B and C of the Project through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the establishment of a monitoring system 
to assess progress in implementation, quality of financial management and impact of 
Program activities.
2.
ECDF Management
Supporting the management of Part D of the Project through the provision of 
technical advisory services and the establishment of a monitoring system to assess 
progress in implementation, quality of financial management and impact of Program 
activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods
shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  13
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Modified ICB
Goods which the Association has agreed may be procured under contracts awarded 
under paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines.
2.
Limited International Bidding
Goods which the Association has agreed that can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $300,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
estimated to cost more than $2 million equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
4.
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $600,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international and national shopping 
procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods, works and commodities, which should be procured as an extension of an 
existing contract and should be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible 
with existing equipment, to be used for the rehabilitation of vital services or 
required for the response to natural disasters or other causes indicated in sections 
1.4 and 2.4 of the Procurement Manual, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, office supplies and equipment, and agricultural inputs may be procured 
from UN agencies such as UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO, WFP and IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
7.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $1 million equivalent per contract,  may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
8.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements consistent with paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
9.
Procurement of Commodities
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized international 
commodity market or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines.
10.
Community Participation
Page  14
Where in the interest of the project sustainability, or to achieve certain 
specific social objectives of the project, it is desirable to call for the 
participation of local communities and/or non governmental organizations (NGOs), the 
procedures stated in section 2.6 of the Procurement Manual and consistent with 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines shall apply.
11.
Market/Auction Purchase
Purchase of a small number of animals estimated to cost less than the aggregate 
amount of $100,000 equivalent may be made at auction and markets through commercial 
practice based on the prevailing demand and offer of the day in accordance with 
provisions satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3 million or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for which a fixed budget can be precisely defined  may be procured, in 
Page  15
alternative to Quality and Cost Based Selection, under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consulting services, training and technical assistance estimated to 
cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent for contract, may, 
with the association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.8 and 3.11 of the Consultants Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Consulting services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$300,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
Page  16
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than sixty days after the end of each calendar 
semester of each year of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of said report (provided, however, that the first 
report to be furnished to the Association shall cover the period from June 1, 2000, 
through November 30, 2000, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter; 
(d)
prepare, under the terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the effectiveness date, an 
Environmental Analysis for the entire Program. The recommendations from the 
Environmental Analysis shall be fully adopted within 2 months after its report is 
issued or such later date as the Association shall establish by notice to the 
Borrower; and
(e)
establish a Steering Committee formed by members of its Government.
2.
Implementation under Part D of the Project:
(a)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part D of the Project, cause MOLG 
to coordinate and ECDF to implement Part D of the Project.
(b)
Operational Manual
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying out Parts D. 1 and 
D. 2 of the Project, ECDF shall apply the procedures and guidelines set out in the 
Operational Manual, and the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Manual or any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
(c)
ECDF Management
The Borrower shall ensure that the General Manager, the Deputy General Manager 
and the Regional Managers of ECDF shall, at all times during the execution of the 
Project, have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
(d)
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects under Part D.1 of the Project:
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) above, 
Subprojects shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Grants only if they are determined by ECDF, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in 
the Operational Manual, to satisfy the eligibility criteria 
specified below and in more detail in the Operational Manual, 
which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(A)
the Subproject shall be for social infrastructure and 
services, such as primary health, basic education, rural 
water supply, soil, water and forestry conservation and for 
feeder roads;
(B)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary which 
shall include a village, group of villages, a sub-zoba, 
cluster of communities or a neighborhood in an urban area or 
their representing institutions;
Page  17
(C)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and 
technically viable in accordance with standards defined in 
the Operational Manual;
(D)
the Beneficiary community must provide, or unless otherwise 
determined under the Operational Manual, at least 10% of the 
estimated Subproject costs in the form of cash, materials, 
labor and other services; and
(E)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, safety and environmental protection.
(ii)
Terms and Conditions for Subprojects:
In financing Subprojects, the Borrower shall enter into a Subproject Agreement 
with a Village Administration or other appropriate administrative institutions legally 
constituted under the Local Government Proclamation No. 86, dated April 15, 1996. The 
terms and conditions of the Subproject Agreement shall include provisions pursuant to 
which:
(A) 
the Community Development Committee shall be responsible for 
Subproject implementation;
(B) 
each Community Development Committee shall be responsible 
for implementing the Subproject in accordance with the 
provisions of the Subproject Agreement and the Operational 
Manual, with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial 
standards, and for maintaining adequate records;
(C) 
each Community Development Committee shall have the 
obligation to report to ECDF on the progress made in the 
implementation of the Subproject;
(D)
ECDF shall have the right to obtain all such information as 
ECDF or the Association shall reasonably request regarding 
Subproject implementation, administration, operations and 
the financial condition of the Community Development 
Committee and the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject;
(E)
the goods, civil works and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grants for Subprojects shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(F)
ECDF shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right 
of the Community Development Committee to use the proceeds 
of the ECDF Grants for a Subproject upon failure by any such 
Community Development Committee to perform any of its 
respective obligations under the Subproject Agreement.
(e)
Eligibility Criteria for Microcredit Subprojects
(i)
Micro Subloans shall be made to Solidarity Groups consisting of 
individuals who have demonstrated a capacity to save for a minimum 
of at least three months. Such Microcredit Subprojects shall aim 
at improving the economic status and livelihood of Beneficiaries.  
In addition, individual or community-based Micro Subloans will be 
made for the financing of income-generating or 
employment-generating activities.
(ii)
For the purpose of carrying out Part D. 2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause ECDF to: 
(A)
re-lend to the FIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to Category (6) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to be 
Page  18
entered into between ECDF and each such FI, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association 
and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth 
in the Annex to this Schedule;
(B)
monitor the overall execution of said Part of the Project 
and the carrying out by the FIs of their undertakings 
pursuant to their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements 
in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to 
the Association;
(C)
take, or cause to be taken, all action necessary or 
appropriate on its part to enable the FIs to perform, in 
accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Financing Agreements, all the obligations of the 
FIs therein set forth, and not take, or permit to be taken, 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and 
(D)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Association and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
4.
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators specified 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Bank, not later than 12 months after 
effectiveness date, a Midterm Review of the Project, which shall cover, inter alia:  
(i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and (ii) overall Project 
performance as measured against Performance Indicators;
(c)
at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the 
Association a report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph (a) above 
and of Project implementation generally; and
(d)
not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an action 
program, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation of the Project 
having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such 
action program.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), 
(5), (6) and (7)  set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement in respect of Parts A, B, C and E.1 of the Project and Categories (1), (2), 
(3), (6) and (7) in respect of Parts D and E. 2 of the Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for Parts A, B, D and E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to  
$3,500,000 in respect of the Special Account A for Parts A, B and E.1 of the Project, 
an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 in respect of the Special Account B for Part C of 
the Project and an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect to the Special Account C 
Page  19
for Parts D and E.2 thereof to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Accounts shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Accounts at such intervals, as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Accounts for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Category, and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Accounts, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) or 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
Sections in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective 
Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account A for Parts A, B and E.1 of the Project, Special 
Account B for Part C of the Project and Special Account C for Parts D and E. 2 of the 
Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
Parts A, B and E.1, Part C, and Parts D and E.2 of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  20
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B and E.1, Part C, and 
Parts D and E. 2 of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the respective Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective 
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the respective Special Accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
The following indicators have been agreed to monitor the performance of the 
program:
1.
Outcome Indicators
(a)
Increase in socio-economic indicators among targeted communities from 
base-line data collected through the welfare monitoring survey (Stage I of the ERP 
Monitoring and Evaluation plan).
(b)
Reduction in the number of displaced households.
(c)
Increase in foreign reserves and export levels.
2.
Output Indicators
(a)
Number of beneficiaries reached, divided into: (i) households, and (ii) 
private enterprises.
(b)
Number of infrastructure rehabilitated (i.e. roads, bridges, power 
installations, schools, health centers, private housing, public buildings and 
large-scale infrastructure).
(c)
PFIs comply with prudential requirements set by Bank of Eritrea and 
adhere to their medium-term strategic plan.
(d)
Disbursement follows schedule; procurement follows procurement plan and 
budget.
(e)
100% of subprojects are technically appropriate and sustainable.
(f)
Financial statements and reports (e.g. auditing reports, mid-term 
reviews, action plan etc.) are produced on time by PMU.
Page  21
