                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 36161

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (IDA-34340 TF-27801 GRTD-H0510)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 69.3 MILLION (US$90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND ON A

                                SUPPLEMENTAL GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR10.9 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE STATE OF

                                       ERITREA

                                        FOR AN

                       EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM



                                      June 30, 2006




Human Resources Development Group I
AFC05
Africa Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2006)

                                   Currency Unit = Eritrean Nakfa
                                           Nkf 1 = US$ 0.066
                                           US$ 1 = 15 Nkf

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1    December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ABS      Afambo Boarding School
ADB      African Development Bank
BOP       Balance of Payments
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBE       Commercial Bank of Eritrea
ECDF      Eritrean Community Development Fund
EDIB      Eritrea Development and Investment Bank
ERP       Emergency and Reconstruction Program
FGDs      Focus Group Discussions
GSE       Government of the State of Eritrea
HCBE     Housing and Commerce Bank of Eritrea
IDPs     Internally displaced population
IECD     Integrated Early Childhood Development
ILICR    Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
ISS      Interim Support Strategy
JSS       Junior Secondary School
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIF       Micro Finance Institution
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOPW - ID Ministry of Public Works ­ Infrastructure Department
NER      Net Enrolment Ratio
OIA       Outcome Impact Assessment
PFI      Private Financial Institutions
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PSR       The Bank's `Project Status Report', now termed Implementation Status Report (ISR)
PSRP      Private Sector Reconstruction Project
PMU       Project Management Unit
SAE       Support for Affected Enterprises
SMCP      Saving and Micro Finance Program
TA        Technical Assistance
TTI       Teacher Training Institute
TOR      Terms of Reference




                                 Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director        Colin Bruce
                                Sector Manager        Dzingai Mutumbuka
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             David S. Rudge

                                            ERITREA
                              Emergency Reconstruction Program


                                           CONTENTS



                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry       2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                           15
6. Sustainability                                                               16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                18
8. Lessons Learned                                                              20
9. Partner Comments                                                             22
10. Additional Information                                                      22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                            23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                            27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                            29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                            30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components            32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                               33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           34
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                             35
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                           60
Annex 10. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                           68

Project ID: P044674                                                  Project Name: Emergency Reconstruction
Team Leader: David Stephen Rudge                                     TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Reconstruction                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-34340; TF-27801;
                                                                                                     GRTD-H0510
   Country/Department: ERITREA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Banking (36%); Roads and highways (20%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                            (18%); Power (18%); Other social services (8%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (S); Access to urban
                            services and housing (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/20/2000                                     Effective: 12/12/2000                12/12/2000
     Appraisal: 09/05/2000                                         MTR: 06/28/2002                  06/28/2002
      Approval: 11/22/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          State of Eritrea/Program Management Unit
                      Other Partners:      Italian Cooperation, African Development Bank, Consortium of Arab Banks,
                                           European Union and Denmark

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Colin Bruce                                    Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Arvil Van Adams
Team Leader at ICR:             David S. Rudge                                 Laura Frigenti
ICR Primary Author:             John D. Riverson



2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
due to continued threat of conflict and drought.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context: The Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Program was financed with resources provided by IDA
and its development partners, which by the time of this ICR included funding from the Government of the
State of Eritrea (GSE), the Italian Cooperation, African Development Fund, European Union, Consortium
of Arab Banks and Denmark. Pledges were also made by France in the beginning. The objectives and
design of the program are assessed here in the context of the political, economic, institutional, and social
conditions prevailing at the time of project preparation and during the implementation period.

During the period 1993-1999, Eritrea's economy was growing rapidly with annual GDP growth rate
averaging 5.4 percent. The outbreak of hostilities between Eritrea and Ethiopia in May 1998 led to a full-
scale war in May 2000, resulting in disastrous humanitarian impact and a reversal of important
achievements following Eritrea's independence in 1993. The war led to the deportation of 75,000
Eritreans and Ethiopians of Eritrean descent from Ethiopia, massive destruction of infrastructure and
disruption of services, loss of livestock, assets and livelihoods, negative impact on local goods production
capacity, mobilization of some 200,000 men and women in the front line, decline in private sector activity
and loss of port revenues. The most dramatic consequence was the sudden displacement of about 1.1
million people or one-third of the population. Internally displaced persons (IDPs) represented 70% of the
population of the most war-affected regions of Gash Barka and Debub, which host 47% of the total
Eritrean population and contribute 70 percent of its total grain production. The Government of the State
of Eritrea's (GSE) Damage Assessment estimated the cost of destruction to households, public
infrastructure and private establishments at US$564 million, greater than the nation's GDP at the time
(US$509 million in 2000). The effects of the war were compounded further by the severe droughts of
2001-04.

Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to a Cessation of Hostilities on June 18, 2000, and signed a comprehensive
Peace Accord in December 2000. The agreement called for the withdrawal of the Ethiopian army from
Eritrean territory and the deployment of a UN peacekeeping force along a 25-kilometer Temporary
Security Zone between the two countries to remain until a neutral Boundary Commission demarcated the
border. Progress towards the border demarcation process has since been stalled for nearly six years.
Eritrea is in a "no war no peace situation," with adverse impacts on the country's reconstruction,
economic recovery, and overall development process.

The period immediately after June 2000 was one of great optimism and hope. Eritrea was widely
considered to have a relatively low occurrence of corruption. Eritrea was also adjudged largely as one of
the highly performing countries in Africa in terms of commitment and dedication to implementation of
development programs. The seriousness and professionalism demonstrated by Government in identifying
needs and setting up an office for program management was encouraging. Most donors began to review
their stance on development cooperation with Eritrea and were ready to resume development assistance.
Upon the GSE's request, the Bank assisted in preparing and appraising an Emergency Reconstruction
Program. The conditions were therefore right for fast track preparation.

Implementation was made more challenging as the expected peace and return to normalcy could not be
realized as mentioned above. Access to foreign exchange for most implementers became more controlled,
while inflation rose over the life of the program to over 20% in 2003 and around 22% by end of 2004. A
severe drought in 2002 with droughts recurring in 2003 and 2004 exacerbated the conditions for
implementing and realizing the expected results especially for rain-fed agriculture. It is against this
background that the whole program, its implementation and performance is assessed.




                                                     - 2 -

Original Objectives: The overall objective of the Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP) was to
assist Eritrea in the process of long-term reconstruction and economic recovery. Particular attention was
to be paid to long-term sustainability so that actions taken during the emergency do not have long-term
adverse consequences on institutions and programs. To achieve its objectives, ERP would finance a set of
complementary actions revolving around: (i) agriculture; (ii) infrastructure rehabilitation; (iii) private
sector reconstruction; (iv) social protection; and (v) provision of balance of payments. In June 2003, the
Bank also approved a Supplemental Grant to support GSE in addressing the negative impact of the
prolonged drought by rebuilding the resource base of poorer rural households, and to fulfill the ERP
objectives of long-term reconstruction and economic recovery through continued interventions in
agriculture, social protection, and infrastructure rehabilitation.

The Program's development objectives were articulated with the short-term view of restoring the
conditions of damaged infrastructure after the war ceased in June 2000, as well as for laying the
foundations for a long-term development and economic recovery. These objectives were therefore set
against the hope of a sustained peace, and post-war conditions being re-established to be conducive for
long-term development. The Program that was prepared addressed the GSE priorities as described in its
Transitional Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (2001) and its draft Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) presented to development partners in 2003. It also addressed the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (1996) and Interim Support Strategy (2000) to assist Eritrea in its transition from war
to peace, while contributing to emergency humanitarian needs and the reconstruction efforts of the
country.

Indicators for monitoring and evaluation were set in broad/general terms at appraisal with the aim of
being able to set benchmarks and continue data collection during the implementation of the program. The
GSE through its PMU-ERP carried out welfare monitoring surveys titled -- Surveys of the Welfare of
Households in the Aftermath of Ethiopia's Third Invasion, including (a) a Baseline Study (August 2002);
and (b) three Follow-up Surveys (July 2003, February 2004, and February 2005). These surveys covered,
inter alia, estimates of loss of household income, property, wealth and rate of recovery. However, the
reports were not necessarily tailored to the indicators at appraisal, while initially, the reports were of
limited circulation and considered by PMU as being restricted probably because of the sensitivity of some
of the information collected, considering the negotiations for border demarcation and keeping the peace
continued during the program implementation. PMU-ERP also provided information on the
implementation status/achievements of the outputs from the various components of the ERP as part of
quarterly progress reports submitted. This information served as a useful starting point of data for
inclusion in the final impact assessment. During program implementation, the Bank team agreed with the
PMU-ERP, the need for more accurate assessment of the outcomes of the program interventions. Both
partners concluded that the information from the ongoing surveys did not fully enable an assessment of
the outcomes. In that context, the Bank responded to the PMU-ERP request and sought financing to carry
out the outcome impact assessment for all components of the ERP, along with a detailed evaluation of the
implementation and impact of the Private Sector Reconstruction component. The Italian Cooperation
agreed at the end of August 2005 to provide additional $200,000 under its ongoing grant for carrying out
the impact assessments. Planning and fieldwork was then carried out between September and December
2005 after initial conceptualization during the early part of 2005.

The preparation of this Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILICR) therefore draws,
in part, from the findings of the above surveys, especially as they relate to the outputs and outcomes of
project activities. The assessment reports (listed in Annex 7) including the lessons drawn from the
experience of ERP, contribute to both the Eritrea's and the Bank's institution-wide learning, particularly
as they relate to conflict and post-conflict environments. Annex 9 presents some of the findings of the
studies.



                                                     - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Program's objectives were not revised. However, after one of the severest droughts to hit the country
occurred in 2002, with devastating effects on food security and people's welfare and livelihoods,
Government requested, and IDA Board approved, a Supplemental Grant of US$15 million equivalent in
June 2003. The principal aim was to help mitigate the effects of the prolonged drought and to support
ERP's overall objectives through continued interventions in agriculture, social protection, and
infrastructure rehabilitation. The original closing date of the ERP was extended from December 31, 2002
to December 31, 2004 to permit the full implementation and satisfactory completion of Program
activities. In addition, closing date of the Italian Grant (TF27801), which was implemented in parallel,
was extended to December 31, 2005 for the same purpose.

3.3 Original Components:

The Program included five components.

1.       Agriculture Component (Cost: US$43 million, IDA $15 million). The overall objective of this
component was to revive productive capacities, permit rural families to return to their farms, launch some
new income generating activities especially for women, and to restore and improve the environment and
community assets through production and sustainable land management investments. More specifically,
this component financed activities in three areas: (i) land resources and crop production; (ii) mechanized
agriculture and support services; and (iii) animal resources. An additional amount of US$ 4.7 million was
allocated under the Supplemental Grant to permit the continuation of subcomponent activities due to the
devastating effect of the droughts of 2002 which even continued into 2003 and 2004.

2.       Infrastructure Rehabilitation. This component included two sectors as follows:

(i)      Roads (Cost: US$36 million, IDA $15 million). This component was designed to restore access
to productive areas and services, through (i) Restoration or rehabilitation of key road and bridge facilities
severely damaged by the war. (ii) The restoration and provision of access to settlements/camps occupied,
or to be occupied by internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees in Sudan; and (iii) provision of
improved access roads to areas of recurrent drought and feminine. The Supplemental Grant provided an
additional US$5.5 million to continue ongoing road rehabilitation, especially in drought-affected areas,
which had been under-funded from original estimates and also to higher standards of the final
reconstructed roads.

(ii)     Energy/Power (Cost: US$25 million, IDA $15 million). This component rehabilitated existing
power plants, whose functioning was critical for the resumption of economic and social activities. More
specifically, it financed the (i) rehabilitation of the Massawa Hirgigo Power Plant, which forms the back-
bone of the Eritrea power system; (ii) replacement of power generators in Barentu and Tessenei; and (iii)
repairs to the electric power systems in Adi-Quala, Adi-Keyih and Senafe. The Supplemental Grant
provided an additional US$0.8 million to finance maintenance of the Hirgigo Power Plant, substation and
related electricity grid, a major source of power to significant areas of Eritrea.

3.       Private Sector Reconstruction (US$45 million, IDA $30 million). This component was
designed to help jumpstart the private sector, especially the formal private sector by providing debt relief
to enterprises that had been particularly affected by the conflict, and by making foreign exchange, which
had been particularly scarce, available through the banking system. The three subcomponents were:
(i) Support for affected enterprises, to enable the Commercial Bank of Eritrea (CBE), Housing and
Commerce Bank of Eritrea (HCBE), and the Eritrea Development and Investment Bank (EDIB), to
provide debt service relief to their borrowers who were affected by the war with Ethiopia;



                                                       - 4 -

(ii) Loan funds, to provide the three banks (e.g. CBE, HCBE, EDIB) with the resources needed to extend
medium and long term loans to their private sector clients; and
(iii) Technical Assistance Program, to strengthen the supervision, auditing and accounting function of the
Bank of Eritrea, and the project appraisal/credit assessment capacity of CBE, HCBE and EDIB.

4.      Social Protection (Cost; US$41 million, IDA 8.5 million). This component targeted the urgent
social and economic needs of vulnerable households and poor communities, so as to help them recover
from the consequences of both the war and prolonged drought. Specifically, this component supported the
rehabilitation of basic social and economic infrastructure in those rural areas most affected by the war,
and the rapid improvements of employment prospects and income generating capacity of small affected
businesses and individuals. This component included three subcomponents.

        (i)      Replenishing the existing Eritrean Community Development Fund (ECDF), with
                 resources to finance: (a) rehabilitation and/or construction of basic social infrastructure
                 (i.e., education and health facilities, feeder roads, water supply schemes) in areas most
                 affected by the war; and (ii) financial services under the micro credit program, utilizing
                 village banking system to provide group-guaranteed loan to individual members of
                 solidarity groups (Tier I loans), and loans to individual borrowers or associations (Tier II
                 loans).
        (ii)     Housing Program was planned to provide materials to subsidize the cost of rebuilding the
                 houses of approximately 20,000 poor households who lost their houses and belongings
                 during the war.
        (iii)    Safety Nets Program was planned to provide traditional safety nets such as cash transfers
                 (grants) and cash for work schemes implemented at community level. The cash for work
                 schemes were eventually implemented in connection with watershed management
                 interventions as part of the agricultural component.

The Supplemental Grant provided an additional US$1.8 million to finance the rehabilitation of (i) safe
water supply facilities for domestic use as well as for livestock; and (ii) low cost access tracks and earth
roads between villages and farm plots, towns, watering points, and treated catchments.

5.      Balance of Payment Support (US$77.5 million). To assist the Government to maintain
macroeconomic stability, it was envisaged that balance of payment support would be mobilized from
other development partners.

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no major changes in actual component description from the original list of components.
However, the scope of the program components was revised as of necessity during implementation by
extending resources through the IDA Supplementary Grant, reallocation of funds under the Italian Trust
Fund with approval of the Italian Foreign Ministry to address the adverse effects of the droughts of 2002
and thereafter, and due to the lack of full donor commitment to finance the initial program planned at
appraisal. This necessitated, in some cases, reallocation between the components with a change in
scope/amount of the activities to be financed, as shown in the actual costs of components at closing (see
Annex 2).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no formal evaluation by QAG of the quality at entry. The QAE is rated Satisfactory for the
reasons below. As befits an emergency reconstruction project, the Bank responded to the emergency
needs at the time and addressed many aspects of the existing Bank and country strategies. The Bank team



                                                      - 5 -

in consultation with other donor partners processed the operation on a fast track, moving from PCD to
effectiveness in less than six months. Physical implementation in-country began even sooner under
special financing arrangements. For infrastructure, for example, the implementing agency had done a
thorough investigation soon after the cessation of war to determine critical bridge locations and some road
improvement needs prior to Bank mission arrival. This facilitated rapid identification road sections for
restoration of access to economic and social services. Of necessity, the team made provision at appraisal
to carry out detailed engineering survey of infrastructure as necessitated for example for road condition
during implementation to enable preparation of final designs and quantities before works commencement,
including the external technical assistance to assist Government in the implementation.

Because of the rapid appraisal and approval of the project, flexibility with fungible resources, and
simplification was built into the procurement procedures within an agreed Procurement Manual approved
by the Bank. The component design and implementation allowed for more detailed preparation during
implementation, especially since many of the locations were inaccessible at the time of identification. The
design of IDA-financed components under this Credit was made to complement support provided under
other ongoing and planned operations such as (i) Eritrea Community Development Fund (ECDF -- Cr.
28230); (ii) Road Sector Engineering (RSEP--Cr. 29450); (iii) Human Resources Development (HRD, Cr.
3033); (iv) Health (Cr. 3023); (v) Integrated Early Childhood Development (IECD ­ Cr. 3403), and (vi)
HAMSET Diseases Control (IDA 3444). For this overall initial effort, the ERP team that prepared the
operation received an "Award for Excellence" from Africa Regional Management.

The Program was classified as category B since no component was considered to have a significant
environmental impact. An environmental assessment was carried out in relation to the agriculture and the
use of pesticides component, the housing and private sector reconstruction components. It is noteworthy
that some of the activities carried under the agricultural component through cash for work sought to
restore the environment with the construction and replanting of terraces on hill sides. In parallel, and
environmental guidelines was prepared as part of preparing a Roads Sector Strategy for implementing
road works in Eritrea.

Donor coordination was facilitated at the start by an agreement to follow harmonized procedures as
presented through the Manual of procurement procedures, which was managed by the PMU, which was
equipped to manage the implementation of all activities, with ministerial guidance only on matters of
policy. Joint participation at appraisal was effective in getting early funding commitments.

Five critical risks were identified at appraisal ­ resumption of conflict, possible indirect use of credit
resources for military spending, labor shortages due to the military deployment of key personnel
potentially slowing down the economy from getting back on track, poor rainy season with consequent low
agricultural production, and the risk of inability to fill the financing gap. The first two did not occur from
known records. The three other risks held true as they impacted general program and project
implementation in the country. With benefit of hindsight, one can deduce that with the shortened
preparation time, the technical details of the operation were probably optimistic. This considering that
three of the five risks could not be fully mitigated and the program may have been overly complex,
although largely completed, but over a longer time than originally planned due to the prevailing country
conditions. Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, although considered at appraisal, could also have
been more sufficiently defined with firm arrangements for data collection, particularly when viewed from
the context of designing/preparing a complex operation such as the ERP.




                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of the program development objectives can be rated overall as satisfactory. Over the
short term, the investments from ERP created the basic socioeconomic conditions in affected
communities for residents to return and take up their lives again. The outcomes and outputs achieved are
summarized in Annex 1 and in greater detail in Annex 8. The initial targets are based on information
recorded at appraisal. However, in many cases, since this was based on a draft implementation plan at
appraisal, and not all items were financed using IDA resources, the targets were updated at the time of
approval of funding by other development partners, such as the ADF. The surveys conclude that the
investments made under ERP helped reinvigorate local agriculture, re-build schools, roads, and restore
power grid, which are all critical to attracting and keeping residents rooted in their communities. The ERP
also contributed to reducing the number of displaced households by providing emergency assistance and
other relief measures to people affected by the war.

The achievements of the program are satisfactory considering the fact that throughout program
implementation, the country has remained in a "no war no peace" situation, and one of the severest
droughts to hit the country occurred in 2002 and continued through 2004. This affected especially the
agriculture component implementation and more so the rain fed agricultural production. The output
targets of most the components and sub-components were largely achieved at realistic levels, which
became evident during implementation and based on the final resources made available (See Section 4.2).
The assessment of the relevance was hindered by the lack of a clear specification of outcome indicators
and their effective time-series measurement throughout the program. However, this drawback was
addressed when the GSE/PMU commissioned an outcome impact assessment (OIA) of all the activities,
along with a separate review of the Private Sector Reconstruction (PSR) component (See Annex 8). The
relevance of ERP is rated high, in relation to the government's development strategy (IPRSP), the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1996, which included enhancing private sector development,
agricultural productivity, and improving human resources through provision of basic social infrastructure.
In addition, the Bank's Interim Support Strategy (ISS) of November 2000 was prepared to help Eritrea
address its immediate needs in the face of a serious humanitarian and economic crisis. The program's
primary objective of helping to restore production levels by easing physical constraints imposed by war-
related damage was appropriate and timely, given Eritrea's devastated condition at the time. The
achievement of the objectives and lessons learnt are also relevant to the Bank's current Interim Strategy
(ISN) of April 2005. In particular, the Bank's ISS and the GSE's current development strategy both aim
at enhancing rural development, and this could build on the lessons from implementing ERP's
Agriculture component.

ERP perhaps tried to accomplish too much and was also not helped by the non-realization of the
optimistic expectation of increases in absorptive capacity from the return of local capacity from the
cessation of war, and training abroad under HRD. Provision of resources to farmers would have benefited
from accompanying technical support, in the form of professional advice to farmers on such issues as
animal nutrition and husbandry.

The results of household analysis show that households did not recover or reach their pre-war situation.
However, the results show positive improvements in household assets especially in relation to the
increase of benefits received. The large food dependency reflects increased need due to the worst drought
in a decade in 2002 and thereafter. However, the resultant dependence on food aid is highly risky and a
strategy to reduce food insecurity and vulnerability to the variable climate should be a key objective for
Eritrea's development. The OIA showed that one of the successful agricultural interventions was the
irrigation sub-component notwithstanding the droughts.


                                                     - 7 -

Women benefited equally from ERP, yet because of constraints facing women, the results seem to favor
males. However, in the poultry sub project, ERP made a specific operational effort to address the
particular needs of women. This is an important lesson for future project activities since ERP
implementation showed that more emphasis was required on the special needs of female-headed
households.

4.2 Outputs by components:

1.      Agriculture (US$43 million of which total IDA's contribution was US$22.1 million, Total actual
was US$35.2 million): The Overall Rating is Satisfactory. Implementation of this component was
completed through: (i) Procurement of Beekeeping equipment and distribution to 4,600 beneficiary
households; (ii) Different types of Farm tools distributed to beneficiaries; and (iii) Exotic Forage seeds
delivered to end-users. To improve animal husbandry management, training was given to over 8,500
beneficiaries in the areas of poultry, bee-keeping and animal health.

The OIA assessment reported that more than 90% of the agriculture component funds were disbursed.
The utilization was about 78% on the animal resources sub-component, 81% on the natural resources and
crop production sub-component, and 59% on the agricultural machinery sub-component.

Comparing achieved activities to those planned, the animal resources sub-component had high
achievements in providing training in beekeeping (101%); construction of pump houses, generator houses
and reservoirs (100%); poultry feed (760%) and day-old chicks (120%). Low budgetary provision was
made for implementation of poultry housing which was fully utilized for the purpose (100%), veterinary
clinic (17%), restocking (20%) and in the dairy element, viz. dairy cow provision (26%), shed (13%), and
feed (0%).

The natural resources and crop production sub-component had good achievements of planned activities
for vegetable seeds (220%), cereal seeds (121%), fertilizers (198% for the IDA planned target at
appraisal, and 99% in terms of the ADB financed planned target), hillside terracing (749%), check dams
(1021%) and seedling production (442%). The output achievement in the agricultural machinery sub-
component was 193% of the planned activities. Output increase came from the achievements in
broadcasters of seeds and fertilizer (145%), four-wheel vehicles (480%), and tractors (235%).
Achievements that were not required in the plan included spreaders and tractors.

2.      Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$61 million of which total IDA's contribution was US$37.1,
Total actual was US$45.3)

(i)     Roads: Rating - Satisfactory. All civil works (bridges and roads, except one), and the supply of
goods were completed, albeit with delays on some roads along with cost increases, which arose largely
from an increase of quantities finally constructed. The completed works included all 262 km of road and 4
Mabey Bailey bridges installed in place of four destroyed bridges. The technical advisory services also
enhanced the capacity of MOPW-ID for Contract Administration, and the services of one Highway
Engineer TA, were replaced by that of a Geo-technical Engineer and Civil Engineer (Structures and
Contract Administration), as well as a Contract Supervision Engineer and Structural Engineer. The
extended TA services were previously funded under the HRDP.

The initial estimates of the volumes of civil works were based on an anticipated quick restoration of
access through road rehabilitation and spot improvements. However, ground conditions encountered
including washout of Irish crossings on one road and GSE concerns about potential durability of the
roads, necessitated higher road design standards. Government scaled down the works on the Afabet-


                                                    - 8 -

Maamide road section and suspended the construction of Barka-Akurdet Bridge. Nevertheless, despite
capacity and financial constraints, currency depreciation and inflation, the completed road works were of
good quality.

(ii).    Energy: The component is rated as Satisfactory. The project supported Eritrea Electric
Corporation (EEC) (formerly the Eritrea Electric Authority) to manage and implement the planning,
procurement disbursement and monitoring of: (i) Hirgigo power plant remedial works, (ii) Hirgigo
132/66/15KV substation, (iii) Damaged Self Contained System (SCS) in five towns, (iv) Spare parts for
generators, and (v) Purchase of distribution materials. All planned activities were fully implemented. EEC
gained time after delays at the start of the project and in resolving issues related to some supplier's initial
reluctance to follow World Bank procurement procedures.

All activities were carried out by international contractors through direct contracts for goods and services.
The repair and rehabilitation of the power plant contract was awarded in September 2000 and the repair
and rehabilitation of the substations contract was awarded in October 2000. The plant was connected to
the power system in 2002, and commissioned in February 2003. Nonetheless, the power generating
capacity is restored fully to its target production capacity of 88 MWh. The production capacity of the
plant was restored to 134 MW. It is reported that most of this restored power capacity may not be needed
immediately with demand at only less than 50 MW. Notably, the large size of the plant was based on
optimistic expectations of Eritrea's economic revival, which are yet to fully materialize.

Until the end of 2004, due to shipping difficulties faced by suppliers, transportation for the spare parts to
the stores of the beneficiary units was unavailable for long periods and so was the transport of wooden
poles to the port of Massawa. The installation of the distribution networks of the five towns was
completed by the end of 2004 using imported materials.

3.       Private Sector Reconstruction

The overall rating of this component is Satisfactory. The project supplied US$42.6 million in foreign
exchange to support the three major financial institutions, which benefited 1,852 enterprises. The PSR
foreign exchange provisions were distributed as follows:
(i) Loan Fund: Special loan fund of US$28.51 million as foreign exchange and term financing to extend
medium and long-term loans to their private sector clients for productive purposes. This benefited 205
enterprises.
(ii) Support for Affected Enterprises (SAE): A loan of US$12.17 million to PFIs to provide for debt relief
to borrowers adversely affected by the war, which benefited 1,647 enterprises.
(iii) Technical Assistance: A loan amount of US $1.92 million for recruitment and deployment of
technical advisors to strengthen the administrative and operational capacity of the PFIs.

The PSR impact assessment addressed three questions: (i) How well was the PSR managed? (ii) What
was the impact of the PSR on private sector activity? (iii) What was the impact of the PSR on the banking
system? It was intended to identify incremental changes among Loan Fund beneficiaries (sub-borrowers),
SAE beneficiaries, and the PFIs over and above what would have happened without the PSR, and
conclusions are summarized below:

On PSR Management, the assessment concluded that (i) the PSR was managed well at all levels of
responsibility; (ii) problems that did arise during implementation of the PSR did not exceed those
normally expected in a project of this scope and were less than the problems expected in a project that
was planned and implemented as quickly as the PSR.




                                                      - 9 -

On the Loan Fund: The participation in the Loan Fund has led to increases in (i) bank lending; (ii)
availability of foreign exchange in the banking system; (iii) sub-borrowers' access to foreign exchange;
and (iv) an improvement in sub-borrowers' financial performance, as measured by sales, profits, and
employment. The improved firm performance appears to be primarily from investment in machinery and
equipment that has increased the firms' long-term growth trajectory. In contrast, participation in the Loan
Fund does not appear to have led to an increase in sub-borrowers' exports. (iv) participation appears to
have led to an increase in sub-borrowers' linkages with local firms, as measured by increased sales to and
purchases from local firms, and (v) a positive, albeit, small improvement in PFIs' financial performance,
as measured by revenue and profits, and (vi) an improvement in the PFIs' compliance with prudential
supervisory standard. This showed as increased profits at all three PFIs and a direct infusion into the
capital accounts at the CBE and EDIB. The overall impact on bank performance was small at the CBE
and HCB and large at the EDIB.

On Support to Affected Enterprises: The participation in the SAE appeared to have led to a small to
moderate increase in beneficiary enterprises' survival rates. However, it did not appear to have led to an
improvement in beneficiaries' financial performance, although it does appear to be associated with higher
sales and profits in certain cases. However, participation appears to have led to an increased demand for
bank lending among beneficiaries, including those firms most affected by the war.

On Technical Assistance: The sub-component appears to have had small to moderate impact on the PFIs'
operations and performance. The outcome of the TA component raises a couple of issues. One issue is
whether TA is even appropriate in emergencies considering an objective of TA of the long-term
transference of knowledge and skills, which process involves not only recruitment and delivery of TA but
also, to be effective, the institutionalization of knowledge and skills. A short project period is not
appropriate to accomplish all of this. The PSR assessment also concluded that proper planning of
sequencing of TA and MIS, for example, is essential for its successful implementation.

4.       Social Protection (US$41.64 million, of which IDA's contribution was US$12.8 million, total
actual is US$51.7 million).

Basic Social Infrastructure: Overall Rating - Marginally Satisfactory. Of the planned 68 and the one
additional feeder road project implemented, subprojects implemented by ECDF, 65 subprojects have been
completed, mostly in the education (92%) and roads (7%) sectors. In addition, ERP procured and
distributed 600,000 textbooks that were not in the original plan. The construction of the Teacher Training
Institute in Adi-Keyih and two water supply subprojects financed by ADB, have not been completed, and
the works are ongoing with expected completion by the closing date of the ADF Credit end of December
2007. While completed, the Dekemhare Bus Station became operational before December 31, 2005.
Rehabilitation works for the Halai-Berhenet-Hawatsu (16 km) feeder road was completed before closing
date.

(i)      Makeshift classrooms, Elementary and Junior Secondary School: Rating - Satisfactory. ECDF
constructed makeshift classrooms to enable students mostly from internally displaced households to
continue their schooling following the war. In addition, the construction, rehabilitation, and/or expansion
of classrooms, elementary schools and junior secondary schools (JSS) have created access and
contributed to increases in school enrollment. On average, estimates show 55-60 students per classroom
in elementary schools, and pupils/teacher ratio at 56. Findings of the Outcome/Impact Assessment (OIA,
2006) show that enrollment in the 20 ERP-assisted schools surveyed in Gash Barka region increased from
6,063 to 14,503 over the academic years 1999/2000 and 2004/05. However, average female enrollment
rate in elementary schools remains low at 44%; the corresponding figure at JSS level is of particular
concern, declining from 37.5% in 2000/01 to less almost 24% in 2004/05.



                                                     - 10 -

Over the academic period 2000/1 and 2004/05, drop out rates in elementary schools in Gash Barka and
Debub regions increased from 3.6% to 5.5% and from 40.5% to 42.8%, respectively; the corresponding
rates for female students were from 33.3% to 46.4%, and from 40% to about 45%, respectively. The main
reasons for girls dropping out of school include early marriage, parents' not valuing education for girls;
distance to (JSS) schools, and in some cases affordability; boys drop out of school mainly due to
economic reasons (assisting in farm work, keeping after livestock, etc). Promotion rates in Gash Barka
elementary schools have been reported to increase from 72.6% to 78%.

Educational qualifications and level of training of assigned teachers is generally acceptable, although
shortage of teachers and failure of some to report to duty have negatively affected the internal efficiency
of schools supported by ERP. While schools constructed by ERP are generally of good quality, more than
25% of classrooms that were built before independence and later rehabilitated by ERP are in bad
condition and not operational when it rains. This can be partly attributed to lack of maintenance and to the
rehabilitation of classrooms only, despite other parts of the school buildings also needing repairs. Several
of the ERP schools suffer from shortage of teachers, instructional materials, and textbooks.

(ii)    Afambo Boarding School (ABS): Rating - Satisfactory. Prior to the establishment of ABS,
students completing elementary school attended boarding schools in Tio and Assab where capacity in
terms of classrooms and housing accommodations was limited. The ABS has contributed to addressing
these constraints, with positive impacts in ensuring the schooling of marginalized children with low social
and economic family backgrounds, with 100% of the students from the Afar tribal origin, including those
children from nomadic groups. ABS started its operations in 2003/04 academic year with close to 270
students registered. Over the academic periods of 2003/04 and 2004/05, ABS contributed to 16.4% and
23% of total JSS enrolment in the Southern Red Sea Region, respectively. ABS classrooms are generally,
in good condition, there is reliable supply of water and electricity, and the school provides textbooks to
students. ABS however suffers from shortage of teachers. In addition, equity in education has not been
realized due to cultural and religious factors that discourage families from sending their girls to boarding
schools or to any other educational facilities. During its two years of operation, only 8 girls were enrolled.

(iii)   Adi-Keyih Teacher Training Institute: Not Rated. By project closing, the construction of the TTI
was in progress with about 54% of works completed. Construction was behind schedule due to delays of
payment, unavailability of construction material, and delays from the side of the contractor. The ongoing
works are expected to be completed by the current closing date of the ADB funding December 31, 2006 .

(iv)    Dekemhare Bus Station: Rating, Marginally Satisfactory. The objective of the Dekemhare Bus
Station subproject was to improve access to public transport in Dekemhare and its surrounding areas.
Although the construction of the bus station was finished earlier, additional time was required to rectify
minor defects identified during the final inspection. Final hand over of the subproject to local
communities and local authorities was recently completed, but it is reported that it has been operational
since 2005.

(v)     Feeder Roads: Rating: Satisfactory: The objective of this sub-component was to rehabilitate and
construct small feeder roads in areas serving refugee camps and returnee locations, facilitating access to
basic social services and to market linkages. ERP constructed three new feeder roads for a total length of
84 km and two feeder roads about 12.7 km long were also rehabilitated -- Digsa-Halai-Derea and
Maereba-Tekelbia, and both 100% completed.

OIA survey findings show that feeder roads subprojects have had a positive impact as expressed by
respondents, leading to decrease in travel time, increase in social trips, improved access to social services
and markets, creation of temporary employment for local communities during construction, higher quality
of roads, and opportunities for wells to be dug in connection with road construction. In addition, ERP


                                                    - 11 -

feeder roads have led to reductions in the costs of transporting agricultural produce between villages and
town centers and providing incentives for farmers to exploit new markets. However, regular public
transport service to many villages is yet to be fully developed to allow the full movements, which would
stimulate agricultural production and create links between deficit and surplus areas.

(vi)    Water Supply Schemes: Not Rated. With ADB financing, ERP originally planned to finance three
water supply subprojects in Debarwa, Segeneyti and Adi-Keyih, which included feasibility studies, head
works and civil works. Feasibility studies were completed, but like other works, the implementation was
delayed for various reasons: effects of rainy season, which led to suspension of works; difficulties and
delays with procuring materials from abroad; poor source of ground water. Head works for both Debarwa
and Segeneyti have been completed and handed over; civil works had not been completed by project
closing, but were reported to have been completed on or before end of first quarter 2006 calendar year.
Works on the Adi Keyih subproject is behind schedule with planned start of civil works in June 2006,
with completion projected to April 2007, which would be beyond the current closing date of the ADF-
financed project unless extended.

Micro Finance Programs: Overall Rating - Satisfactory. With support from ERP, the Savings and Micro
Credit Program (SMCP) was able to expand its outreach in rural and semi-urban areas with no access to
formal financial institutions, through two tiers of micro credit schemes: Tier I and Tier II. Tier I uses the
village-banking model, providing loans up to Nakfa 3,000 up to 40,000 to individual members of
solidarity groups. Under Tier II, loans are provided to individual borrowers or small enterprises to finance
profitable projects that can also benefit the community from Nakfa 40,000 up to Nakfa 150,000. This
component exceeded its original targets as more opportunities were created to reach people in need.
During the period 2000-2005, 179 new village banks were established and financial services extended to
an additional 16,322 new clients in 50 sub-regions, compared to original targets of 88 village banks and
6,187 clients. By end 2005, SMCP had 267 village banks and total client base of 22,509 individuals.

SMCP's portfolio at risk was about 5.9% in 2000, peaked to 22.5% in 2003, and improved to about
16.76% by end 2005. Compared to the repayment rate of 94.4% in 2000, repayment rate by end 2005
declined to 83.24%. Repayment problems generally involve the agriculture sector which accounts for
30% of SMCP's portfolio. The prevailing and difficult social and economic conditions in the country, and
the compounded and lingering effects of the war and drought, have contributed to a general deterioration
in SMCP's portfolio. Notwithstanding this, the ICR observes that during the last two years, progress is
being made to improve SMCP's overall performance. Over the period 2001- 2005, SMCP's Operating
Self-Sufficiency increased from about 107.5% to almost 170%, respectively, while its Financial Self-
Sufficiency improved from about 61% to 103%, respectively.

Over the years, SMCP has assisted poor entrepreneurs to improve their source of revenue, promote their
financial empowerment, and reduce their economic vulnerability. OIA findings indicate that although
SMCP has performed, on average, below the set standard considered for normal operating conditions, it
had a positive impact in linking the poor to sources of credit, under difficult country circumstances.
Findings also suggest that although it is possible to serve the extremely poor in post conflict areas, it is
likely to take longer for the institution to be sustainable.

Safety Nets Program. Overall Rating - Marginally Satisfactory.

Cash Transfers: Rating, Satisfactory. The objective of the cash transfer was to assist the returning IDP
households to re-establish themselves in their villages/communities. Cash transfers in the form of Nakfa
2,000 grants have been provided to 24,760 poor households in four war-affected regions. Grant recipients
included female-headed households, households with elderly and/or disabled dependents, and resource-
poor and marginalized households; the numbers of dependents in each household were also taken into


                                                      - 12 -

consideration. Cash transfers were largely used to meet the immediate and short-term needs of
beneficiaries, with about 75% accounting for the purchase/restocking of basic goods as most families lost
their belongings, and shelter. The cash transfers took place at a time when IDPs were returning to their
home villages, just before the onset of the main rainy season. The provision of cash transfers enabled
GSE to respond quickly and effectively to the needs of affected individuals and households. The fast-
disbursing nature of the grant was particularly important to ensure that displaced persons received
adequate assistance during the rainy season, while longer-term reconstruction efforts got underway. The
OIA concluded that providing cash support to target beneficiaries quickly, positively affected
beneficiaries' sense of safety and security and was reported as highly preferable to in-kind support. It was
a prominent first sign of the government's support in a time of acute need.

Cash for Work (CFW): Rating - Satisfactory. The CFW schemes provided income-earning opportunities
for people in war and drought affected areas, including displaced returnees, at an average wage rate of
Nafka 20 per person-day worked, while at the same time supporting development activities, such as land
preparation, collection of grass to support feed security for animals, watershed protection and soil
conservation. ERP contributed to the restoration of degraded vegetation by planting more than 4,000,000
trees, construction of over 6,000 km hillsides, 172, 547 m3 check dams, two ponds of 25,000 m3
capacity, one soil diversion structure, more than 1000 hectares of land leveled. In addition, grass was
collected during the rainy season to be kept for the dry season in various regions. The measures taken for
conserving soil and water included run-off reducing treatments such as contour barriers, absorption
ditches, terraces and planting trees and vegetative ground cover.

Of those who participated in CFW schemes, more than half worked between one to two months; while
over one-third worked for less than one month. Men and women participated equally in CFW schemes.
The OIA surveys showed that about 73% of wages earned was utilized for food, with the remaining used
for shelter, restocking and purchase of seeds. Beneficiaries participated in hillside terracing activity
(38.5%), tree plantings (28.7%), building check dams (16.3%), and road construction and rehabilitation
(11.5%).

Orthopedic Workshop: Rating - Marginally Satisfactory. The construction of the orthopedic workshop
was to be completed in two phases. All construction works under the Phase 1 have been completed.
Works under Phase 2, designed to house the physiotherapy and training units together with their
respective auxiliary rooms, was 60% completed by IDA Credit closing. The works were completed by
December 31, 2005, the closing date of the Italian Grant, and the new workshop is now in operation.
However, lack of materials and equipments severely limits the supply of artificial appliances to the
disabled. Actual production became limited due to the acute shortage of raw materials and supplies that
required sizeable amounts of foreign exchange, a situation observed in all other existing workshops in the
country.

Of the estimated 150,000 disabled persons, about 18,000 throughout the country benefited free of charge
from various kinds of artificial appliances financed by the ERP and other sources, while 40,000 remained
in the waiting list. Persons with orthopedic appliances had priority in clerical or professional job
placements such as schools, hospitals and administrative offices if they had the required qualification and
experience for the posts advertised. Estimates reveal that more than 1324 obtained employment
opportunities in local offices in their surrounding areas, while a good number of the beneficiaries were
engaged in small-scale agriculture related activities.

All orthopedic workshops in the country are working under their attainable capacity due to shortage of
skilled labor, expertise, and raw materials. The demand for appliances surpassed the total capacity of the
workshops. The new workshop financed by ERP was expected to satisfy about 30% of the Eritrea's total
need for artificial appliances. However, the coverage from all workshops in the country is limited to less


                                                    - 13 -

than 45% of the targeted population. Inadequate number of sufficiently trained experts in all the
departments of the workshop, unavailability of appropriate machinery, spare parts and raw materials in
the number and quality required, affect overall production capacity. While the new workshop's
administrative and general expenses are covered by GSE budgets, there are no budgets for maintenance
and materials. OIA findings reveal the facilities still required more and quality core staff such as
technicians and physiotherapists.

Drug Supply for the Mentally Disabled: Rating - Satisfactory. ERP financed pharmaceutical drugs for the
mentally disabled. The drugs were distributed in the ratio of 7:2:1 to St. Mary's Psychiatric Hospital,
Regional Hospitals, and Communities. The internally displaced, deportees and returnees were the main
beneficiaries of this sub-component. Findings of the OIA show that over the period 2001 to 2005, St.
Mary's Psychiatric Hospital in particular was able to cope with the needs of an increasing number of
patients. During this period, new patients in this institution increased from 2577 to 2805; the
corresponding figure for repeat patients was from 28,754 to 37,860.

Housing for the Disabled: Rating - Marginally Unsatisfactory. With a planned budget of about US$10
million, this subproject was originally designed to subsidize the cost of rebuilding houses for about
20,000 poor households. During implementation, the budget obtained amounted to US$3.0 million, which
led to a significant reduction in the possible number of beneficiary households. This presented important
(and sensitive) challenges to GSE with respect to ensuring equitable and efficient distribution of limited
resources to a relatively large number of poor households in need of housing. Considering these
challenges, the GSE requested, and the Bank agreed, to reallocate the funds to finance the construction of
houses for war-disabled people. This decision was made during the latter years of implementation. By
project closing, the construction of the housing project was ongoing, with 10% of works completed. PMU
reports that GSE intends to complete construction of the housing facilities in phases. This would facilitate
the completion to match the availability of funds.

The design of 460 housing units adequately provided for the special needs of disabled persons, including
a health center, maintenance workshop, and community multi-purpose resource rooms in the compound.

5.       Balance of Payment Support (US$77.5 million).
This component is not rated. The Bank did not provide resources for this component. The BOP was
partially funded with an Italian Government loan of US$34 million equivalent (43.9% of appraisal
estimates). First disbursement was made in mid-2004. PMU-ERP reports that with the proceeds, GSE has
procured 230 tractors, 470 cultivation equipments, various irrigation equipments, one milk-processing
plant, 1 tomato production line, 156 transport vehicles, spare-parts, gabions, etc. The impact on foreign
reserves is not specifically assessed for this report.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic analysis was carried out at appraisal or at ICR, and no cost-effectiveness analysis is
presented here in this report in the absence of comparators.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not carried out at appraisal. However, the PSR assessment study concluded (as shown in some results in
Annex 8 Section II) that participation in the Loan Fund has led to an increase in bank lending, availability
of foreign exchange in the banking system, and in sub-borrowers' access to foreign exchange.

In addition, the financing has led to an improvement in sub-borrowers' financial performance, as
measured by sales, profits, and employment. Improved firm performance appears to be primarily a result
of investment in machinery and equipment that has increased the firms' long-term growth trajectory. In




                                                     - 14 -

contrast, participation in the Loan Fund does not appear to have led to an increase in sub-borrowers'
exports.
The participation also appears to have led to (i) an increase in sub-borrowers' linkages with local firms, as
measured by increased sales to and purchases from local firms, (ii) a positive albeit small improvement in
PFIs' financial performance, as measured by revenue and profits, as well as (iii) an improvement in the
PFIs' compliance with prudential supervisory standard. This occurred via increased profits at all three
PFIs and a direct infusion into the capital accounts at the CBE and EDIB. The overall impact on bank
performance was small at the CBE and HCB and large at the EDIB.

Participation in the SAE also appears to have led to a small to moderate increase in beneficiaries' survival
rates; but, it appears not to have led to an improvement in beneficiaries' financial performance, although
it does appear to be associated with higher sales and profits in certain cases.
In addition, participation in the SAE appears to have led to an increased demand for bank lending among
beneficiaries, including those firms most affected by the war.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development impact is rated modest. As highlighted earlier, under Section 3.5, the
emergency operation was benefited by other parallel operations, which also had specific institutional
capacity building objectives, e.g., HRD, ECDF, RSEP and IECD. The implementation of most
components was benefited by the presence of in-line TA that was available in the different ministries.
Capacity established under the ECDF continued with implementation of this component as well as the
core capacity by the TA to the MOPW-ID provided through the RSEP and HRD projects. Some TA
financed under the HRD was extended through financing under the ERP. Program intervention in
capacity building in the PSR component provided some inputs to the PFIs and existing enterprises for
recovery and transition to sustainable development. Almost all infrastructure works were implemented by
Eritrean construction companies, and this gave opportunity for increased participation and building of
experience that can be maintained locally for small to medium sized works. However, as the project
activities increasingly shifted away from emergency imports of goods and equipment, partially on a
retroactive basis, towards more complex developmental activities, the long-term institutional constraints
created by the prolonged war became more apparent.

The OIA report concluded that ERP tried to accomplish too much and overestimated the receptivity and
absorptive capacity of the GSE. However, as explained above, clearly, the optimistic and long-term
positive expectations of the Borrower with regard to institutional and human capacity from the outset of
the project need to be factored in any conclusions. In some of the sectors, such as agriculture, the
experience under the ERP provides useful lessons. Complementary investments in technical assistance
and greater focus on strengthening institutional capacity will be needed on future operations, including
additional technical support for the provision of resources to farmers in the form of professional advice to
farmers on such issues as animal nutrition and husbandry.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Increase in cost of materials and fuel has contributed to higher costs of some subprojects (i.e., water
supply subprojects, education subprojects). The severe drought in 2002, which was repeated in the
ensuing years until 2004, had a negative impact on the rain fed agriculture production, hence on the
outcome and sustainability of that sub-component. The impact includes a large food aid dependency. This
level of dependence on food aid is highly risky, so a strategy to reduce food insecurity and vulnerability
to the variable climate should be a key objective for Eritrea's development.



                                                     - 15 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Shortage of work force due to the mobilization of able-bodied men and women to the front line had
negative effects on the efficiency by which ERP key activities could be implemented. Restrictions in
foreign exchange as part of fiscal control policies did contribute to delays in procuring materials from
abroad. Other factors affected the achievement and sustainability of the rain-fed agriculture
subcomponent: most households received incomplete input packages; the input packages were not
uniform among beneficiary households and sometimes were received too late or in insufficient amounts to
cover the needs of some households.

The government could have ensured that the better quality of seeds received during the first 2-3 years of
the project period as the OIA reported that seeds were collected from anywhere they were available
without consideration to seed viability and suitability to the specific area. The farmers indicated that the
rates paid for tractor service were also too high and that this service was free of charge until 2001. They
also stressed that the quality of the service was not as good as that before 2001, which was probably due
to the use of less qualified tractor drivers. It is noted that the Ministry of Agriculture had made policy
changes in tractor services. Before 2001, tractor services were free, but had become fee-based since; the
Ministry had also decreased its tractor fleet considerably. Most tractor services are currently private-
operated (usually by single operators). This change had implications on the ERP by increasing the cost of
production and decreasing the cultivated land.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See above.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total estimated cost of the program was US$288 million. At appraisal, a financing gap of $30 million
was indicated, assuming that the other indicative amounts would be fully committed during
implementation. As per the original ERP design, the total support to the ERP increased beyond the IDA
committed amounts as and when separate donor agreements were finalized. The total committed funds for
the ERP amounted to US$247.2 million equivalent, which is below the original appraisal totals. Out of
this, IDA total financing amounted to a Credit of SDR 69.3 million (US$90 million equivalent at
appraisal) and a Supplementary Grant of SDR 10.9 million (US$15 million equivalent at appraisal (H-
051-ER)). Due to favorable fluctuations in exchange rates, IDA's total and actual disbursements are
estimated at US$105.9 million equivalent. The remaining Program resources were provided through
parallel donor financing from Italian Trust Fund (US$31.2 m/Actual disbursed US$31.0m) and Loan
(US$34m equivalent or 43.9% of planned budget/Actual disbursed US$35.68m equivalent) for balance of
payment (BOP) support, African Development Fund (US$28.8m/Actual disbursedUS$19.4m),
Consortium of Arab Funds (US$13.2m/Actual disbursed US$9.47m), Demark (US$11m; channeled
directly through the implementing agencies and not by the PMU), and EU counterpart funds support
through Food Security Program (NKF61m in Euros), which along with Government finance amounted to
US$24 m equivalent/Actual disbursement US$19.14m equivalent).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated as Likely at program level for most of the interventions carried out, but long-term
sustainability will occur when prevailing country conditions pave the way for full macro-economic


                                                       - 16 -

recovery. Taking into account that the ERP was originally designed as an emergency operation,
sustainability is likely from the following perspective. ERP used existing institutional structures such as
the ECDF, and ensured the involvement of key mainstream institutions to facilitate the implementation of
Program activities. This helped strengthen capacity of these institutions to effectively deliver emergency
assistance in a post-conflict environment on the one hand and of beneficiaries to implement activities, on
the other. By ensuring the involvement of mainstream institutions such as the Ministry of Agriculture,
Public Works, Transport, Social and Human Welfare, appropriate links were made between Program
interventions and related sector policies/strategies. This provided an important vehicle for these
mainstream institutions to further take up or continue similar activities, albeit in other ongoing or planned
operations. However, agriculture for example, could benefit from taking more action in the future to
offset the effects of droughts. In addition, although beneficiaries have expressed overall satisfaction, for
infrastructure there is need to assess and establish the capacity for maintenance. In the case of the roads
and feeder roads in particular, one should assess and fully establish the capacity of local communities to
provide for routine maintenance on the one hand, and for local authorities to play their rightful roles in
ensuring sustainable operations, including major repairs in the context of implementing the new transport
sector strategy.

At macro level, however, sustainability would remain uncertain unless positive action were taken to
reverse Eritrea's prevailing "no-war no peace" situation and its deteriorating macro-economic condition,
including government's foreign exchange policies, poses uncertainties to sustaining the Programs
investments. Notably, the Program realized important achievements in providing urgent assistance to
those segments of the population most affected by the war and the prolonged drought. The lessons learned
from the ERP, which are already being widely shared as elaborated in Section 6.2, for extending and
sustaining the outcomes from the ERP. The opportunities are in future interventions in rural (agricultural)
development, infrastructure ­ power sector and also in rural roads, which are to be firmly grounded in a
national transport strategy supported by the Bank and the EU, as well as the ongoing education and health
sector operations. These important interventions would contribute to reducing poverty and vulnerability,
but also affect positively the sustainability of private enterprises.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The OIA and PSR impact assessment surveys (reported in Annex 8), which were conducted on this multi-
sector operation were, in part, intended to inform future national strategy and associated development
operations. The results of the two studies were therefore further presented to a wider group of
stakeholders at the end of May 2006. The Bank's ISS has set the initial stage already in identifying rural
development as the main area of support to Eritrea's development. Preparation is underway. Rural
development would be benefited by the experience gained in implementing the agricultural component,
for example, (i) extending the positive impact of the support to irrigation on agriculture development,
versus, the dependence on rain-fed agriculture; and (ii) providing advisory services along with proper
packaging of inputs for maximum impact.

The ongoing Electricity Distribution Rehabilitation and Rural Electrification project is already extending
the positive gains in the power and energy component; and the Bank's and EU support for the
development of a Roads Sector Strategy is setting the stage for a firm basis for roads sector development
implementation, including any rural feeder roads developed in the context of rural development. In
addition, the health and education sector stand to gain by building on the interventions carried out in the
respective sectors under the ERP.




                                                     - 17 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's overall performance during the project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated
Satisfactory. The Bank was fast to respond to the post-conflict situation, and fielded specialists in all
potential areas of intervention to assist the Borrower in identification of possible components. The Roads
team was the first to arrive in country soon after the declaration of the cessation of fighting in June 2000,
and a the larger team of specialists led by the Country Director immediately followed on July 1, 2000.
The Bank introduced sufficient flexibility during preparation and assisted the Borrower in preparing a
Manual of Procurement Procedures for the program with simplified procurement procedures, wherever it
contribute to expediting implementation of all components, and was approved as reference for use by
implementing agencies. A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was also prepared for the PSRC.

Nonetheless, project preparation and initial implementation moved smoothly in most respects. This is a
noteworthy achievement, especially in the light of the large financing gap at the time of Board
presentation and the participation of several co-financiers with different procurement and disbursement
procedures. At the Government's request, the Bank assisted by coordinating all donors into a single
project using Bank procedures and this proved beneficial.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank overall performance on supervision is rated Satisfactory. Bank staff coordinated well with co-
and parallel financing partners in the participating in joint supervision missions, initially. The number of
donors participating diminished overtime as donors failed to make firm commitments to the program.
However, the Bank missions actively consulted representatives of donor partners resident in the country,
and shared mission findings. In the case of the principal donor partners, such as the Italian Cooperation,
the partnership was enhanced when technical experts were assigned to the local office. The Bank missions
informed the partners and actively sought their involvement in mission discussions. The active
involvement and the trust and confidence built was largely instrumental in the effective responses to
requests of extensions of trust fund closing date and reallocation of funds between components as well as
the funds for financing the impact measurements. It is admitted that changes in task team leadership could
have affected continuity of dialogue, while the sectoral representation on agriculture component
supervision could have been stronger. However, the Bank compensated by ensuring that the task team
leadership comprised people familiar with the operation and the country environment. The Bank also
established a strong periodic follow up through its country office representation, which also made it easy
for PMU management to discuss and resolve issues faced in implementation, through the Bank's effective
virtual communication network through telephone or video conferences.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance was Satisfactory. It proved responsive to emerging situations and
continued to assist the Borrower in as many ways as possible to overcome any implementation problems,
especially through continuous country based dialogue and discussions to address arising problems/issues.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during preparation was, overall, Satisfactory. Some of the Borrower's
implementing agencies (e.g., Ministry of Public Works ­ Infrastructure department) had managed Bank



                                                    - 18 -

financed operations earlier and were familiar with Bank procedures. It had also taken action earlier to
assess the extent of damage especially to critical infrastructure such as bridges, even ahead of project
identification, and this facilitated appraisal and the restoration of the damaged structures thereafter. The
engagement of domestic contractors had its advantages when it came to readiness for responding to re-
installing damaged bridges, for example. However, preparation for some of the road works
implementation, in general, did not proceed as fast as planned, and the capacity limitations introduced by
the prolonged border dispute further hampered the technical survey and design assessments required to
start works.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Borrower performance during implementation was, overall, Satisfactory. Some of the Borrower's
implementing agencies (e.g., Ministry of Public Works ­ Infrastructure department) and the ECDF were
proactive in suggesting alternative solutions to problems met, such as justifications for changes in scope
and standard of works. Challenges faced included delays in shipment by suppliers of distribution poles
from different sources, which arose out of difficulties in finding ships bound for Massawa port in Eritrea.
Some suppliers also withdrew last minute and necessitated restart of procurement process to ensure
completion of supplies. The engagement of domestic contractors had its advantages when it came to
responding to re-installing damaged bridges, for example. However, works implementation, in general,
did not proceed as fast as planned, but it is expected that the capacity introduced through participation and
experience in the services and works would have a long term impact on the local firms' ability to
implement medium-sized projects.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the PMU and its implementing agencies was generally Satisfactory. One of the most
important contributing factors to the success of the ERP was PMU high level of commitment to and
ownership of the recovery program. The PMU managed the project well and was proactive in addressing
issues that might have affected implementation. The lack of any serious fiduciary shortcomings is another
credit to the PMU, a reflection of the good MIS system which assisted in keeping the procurement and
accounting records up to date. Notably, performance differs by component as explained hereafter and
some of the implementing agencies, especially agricultural component implementation at the Zoba level.
In this context, the EEC had technically qualified engineers and was able to implement the power and
energy component with little or no TA. The ECDF had established the full administrative and
implementation set up for the ECDF project for which additional replenishment funds were provided
under ERP for continuation of some activities. These were implemented by the same team, again without
additional TA. MOPW-ID had just completed implementing the IDA Engineering Credit under which the
RTCD workshops had been rehabilitated, and equipped for equipment repairs and training, and
preparation of national standard procurement and contract documents. The professional team was in place
at the beginning of the ERP. The scope of work necessitated additional TA, which was implemented well.
Domestic contractors were awarded all the civil works contracts and local consultants, the construction
supervision services. There were some limitations in capacity that contributed to delays in implementation
of some project components. Some of the agencies also did not pay good attention to monitoring and
evaluating the results of their respective activities.

PMU in particular recognized the shortcoming of not being able to measure the project outcome impact
and consulted the Bank and the Italian Cooperation in seeking resources to finance an output impact
assessment. The PMU also ably managed the recruitment of the impact evaluation consultants and
facilitated the fieldwork and data analysis.




                                                      - 19 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory. The activities were implemented with
determination, in spite of the prolongation of some of the contract completion dates, and some associated
cost overruns due largely to inability to assess conditions in some locations, especially of roads. In some
cases, such as importation of various supplies, the use of country systems faced some drawbacks as
sources of materials could not be guaranteed, and some suppliers declined to honor their bids.


8. Lessons Learned

   Design and Implementation

   ·    Emergency Programs such as the ERP that are prepared in a very short time with a view to
        respond to a post conflict emergency, cannot be prepared with the same degree of detail as a
        traditional operation. Thus, the design of all components must build in flexibility with fungible
        resources, accessed based on justification, to be able to address unforeseeable needs and
        conditions adequately, as they occur during implementation. While this is important for all
        operations, it is more so for projects in post conflict countries.

   ·    Given the ERP's objective of restarting the economy, which depends in part on other external
        factors, consideration could be given separating fast implementing and disbursing interventions
        for restoration of livelihoods and to address emergency needs, from interventions that may tend to
        take longer and have a longer-term development impact. The latter actions could be considered
        as complementary and tied to the broader development policy and goals.

   ·    Access to markets and services is important for any economic and social recovery process. The
        ERP demonstrated that use of existing knowledge expedites the preparation work, especially in
        the re-installation of bridge and road access with an already identified location and alignments.

   Management of Multi-Sector Operations and Donor Coordination

   ·    Project component implementation by PIUs should be part of the mainstream activities of the
        implementing agency, and the components' design should be part of the agency's strategic plan.
        This approach to project design and implementation would facilitate internalization and enhance
        ownership and sustainability. In addition, PIUs should have specialized technical personnel in all
        key focal/delivery areas.

   ·    Multi-sector and multi-donor operations can be complex to manage. Smaller and more focused
        projects that involve fewer implementing agencies would improve the management's chance of
        success on implementation.

   ·    Donor coordination can be facilitated as in this project, through harmonization of procedures
        using the same manual of procurement as reference, and with central financial management using
        one MIS and with general management under one responsible entity, such as PMU, in this case.
        Under ERP this helped to minimize proble

   Sector Supporting Strategies and Actions

   ·    In agriculture, ERP delivered a package of services and inputs; however items were not always
        received as one package. Notwithstanding the need for rapid response, it would be beneficial to


                                                    - 20 -

   implement participatory methods (at least consulting with beneficiaries in identifying and
   finalizing needs and areas of support) as prerequisites to the start-up and implementation of
   activities particularly those affecting beneficiary implementation directly such as agriculture. For
   example additional benefits could be attained through farmer-to-farmer exchange to pilot/project
   areas while using a comprehensive awareness campaign to publicize project objectives and
   activities for a sustained period of time.

·  On the Social Components such as Education, the implementation needs to build into the
   broader education strategy, which enables schools to function with teachers and textbooks made
   available alongside the completion of classroom structures and facilities, often the focus of
   emergency operations. The training of teachers under a parallel operation to complement the
   building of schools could also enhance the chances of success in meeting educational objectives.

·  IDPs. Displaced families require minimal support as an incentive for returning to their villages.
   The primary need identified by resettling families is food security. While the goal is for
   communities to attain food security through agricultural production, it is crucial that returning
   families have access to adequate cash or food support as they await the harvest of their first crops.

·  Infrastructure such as road reconstruction and rehabilitation projects, apart from bridge repairs
   and installation, generally require a longer period for implementation; especially, as they require
   good survey and design prior to construction. In order to reduce the impact of changes that occur
   on the ground, consideration could be given to adopting `design and build' options for
   implementing emergency road infrastructure improvements. The future existence of a clear sector
   strategy also ensures that experiences can be mainstreamed into regular operations.

·  The unique context of the interventions for private sector reconstruction raises broader issues of
   interest for development policy beyond the immediate impacts. The PSR was not designed as a
   long-term development project, and hence not aimed at sustainable development, per se, but to
   prime the pump for an anticipated private sector expansion. The PFIs did not prioritize export-
   oriented firms and sub-borrowers in turn appear to have generated very little additional foreign
   exchange. In general, emergency operations that target the private sector should include
   interventions and monitoring indicators that ensure addressing in addition to immediate needs for
   jumpstarting the private sector's contribution to the economy, but also build sustainability into
   project design by targeting export-oriented activities.

Addressing the Needs of the Poor and Gender

·  In a country where the majority of the rural population is described as extremely poor, it was not
   easy to come up with a targeting criterion that would avoid serious inclusion and exclusion errors.
   Since the resources of Donor-financed recovery projects can rarely meet all the needs for
   recovery, narrower target criteria embracing the poor in particular, such as increased employment
   or income can help to better focus the assistance. Community participation in the selection
   process would be beneficial

·  Reconstruction efforts must consider the possible economic difficulties faced by women in post-
   conflict situations (e.g., lack of labor at critical times in the agricultural season). In many post-
   conflict countries, a third or more of the working-age men die or become wounded or maimed;
   women become the main productive base for restarting the economy. The interventions in post-
   conflict operations such as the ERP should therefore consult with female members of
   communities in order to determine how best to target their needs.



                                                 - 21 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

 Stakeholder consultation workshops were held May 29-31, 2006 to discuss the findings of the two
 impact surveys ­ OIA and PSR assessment, as well as general experience with implementing the ERP.
 The reports of workshop proceedings and recommendations are presented in Annex 9. Annex 10 also
 presents the Borrowers' completion report.

(b) Cofinanciers:

 A representative of Italian Co-operation in Asmara attended the ICR review meeting and sent written
 comments with some clarifications on the Balance of Payment loan, which are reflected in the text. They
 also confirmed their concurrence with the ratings given to the program, its components, and
 subcomponents. They noted that since the ICR ratings were mainly based on the two final in-depth
 studies funded by the Italian Co-operation late last year, they make their comments with a sense of
 reassurance. In addition, notwithstanding problems - linked to the lack of baseline data for counterfactual
 analysis - within the two studies, overall, they considered that the best possible assessment of the ERP
 had been made and they were, therefore, a reliable source upon which to base the ICR.

In regards to the Italian funded activities within the ERP, the Italian Co-operation has commented that for
the most part they were implemented in a proficient and professional manner. They highlighted their
appreciation for the great deal of collaboration and sharing of information between the PMU, the World
Bank and the Italian Co-operation Office in Asmara.

Additionally, some comments were received from a representative of ADB on the draft report, which
have been reflected in the final. It was also indicated that the ILICR provides a wealth of information,
which would be useful in preparing completion reports on the components that ADF financed.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

A stakeholders' workshop on the OIA study of ERP was conducted May 29-31, 2006. The workshop
brought together the program's primary stakeholders from the government, the donor community and
private enterprises to share experiences about ERP and its implementation. The first two days covered
the OIA study findings and the third day the PSR findings. The comments forwarded and reflected in the
proceedings are all presented under Annex 9.



10. Additional Information

No additional information is provided here other than those reflected in the Annexes.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:

           Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR1                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Increase in socio-economic       Resumption of crop, livestock, and    In 2005, cultivated area increased by
indicators among targeted            forestry production for 770,000 war   about 103%, harvest reported in
communities from base-line data      and drought-affected persons ­        surveyed areas 20.4% increase due to
collected through the welfare        farmers and herders.                   continued unsettled border dispute,
monitoring survey (Stage I of the ERP                                       droughts.
Monitoring and Evaluation plan).     Assistance to vulnerable households
                                     leading to prevention of welfare       Micro Credit Last two years, progress
                                     deterioration including micro-credit   was made to improve SMCP's overall
                                     facilities                             performance. From 2001-2005,
                                                                            SMCP's Operating Self-Sufficiency
                                     Social Beneficiary Households also     increased from about 107.5% to almost
                                     supported through cash for work;       170%, while its Financial Self-
                                     tens of thousands of farmers +         sufficiency improved from about 61%
                                     households provided with seeds,        to 103%, respectively.
                                     farm tools, livestock, etc.            Cash transfer fund assisted vulnerable
                                                                            people, mainly returning IDPs, to re-
                                     Projected 8,500 individuals trained in establish themselves. ERN 50.00
                                     various skills in Agriculture.         million given to 24,760 HHs in Gash
                                                                            Barka and Debub.
                                     For Education: No Baseline Data for Also ERN 2,000 grants were given to
                                     Direct comparison. Historical data in individual HHs, based on eligibility
                                     OIA (Annex 8).                         criteria defined by local committees.
                                                                            The cash transfer was used for
                                                                            purchase of food (41.6%), restocking
                                                                            (25.5), shelter (8.3), seeds (3.7) and
                                                                            farm tools (1.9%). Additional cash
                                                                            assistance of about ERN 1.6 million
                                                                            was given to 400 poor HHs in the
                                                                            Senafe sub-Zoba to purchase seeds.

                                                                            Reported 8,600 individuals trained in
                                                                            various skills in Agriculture.

                                                                            OIA data (Annex 8 ­ Social Protection
                                                                            Component shows general
                                                                            improvements in education.
                                                                            2001/02-2004/05. Total enrollment
                                                                            490-1747; Females 34 to 404.
                                                                            Flow Rates change 1999/2000 ­
                                                                            2004/2005 Flow rates Total 38.5% -
                                                                            44.27% of Females in Enrollment, 51-
                                                                            51.1% Repeaters, 47.0-42.78% drop-
                                                                            outs.

(b) Reduction in the number of       September 2000, about 1.1 million      By end 2004, reported 165,000
displaced households.                IDPs, 600,000 had returned to Gash     returned, 60,000 still in camps.
                                     Barka and Debub. 50,000 returnees
                                     from Sudan.                            End 2005 estimates show 83%
                                     Total reported 212,885 in 25 camps. returned to various parts of country.
                                                                            No persons in camps.



                                                     - 23 -

(c) Increase in foreign reserves and    $45 million to be provided through    As shown in Annex 8 of ICR. $34.2
export levels.                          CBE, HCBE and EDIB to support         million provided. The Loan Fund has
                                        affected enterprises ($15 million),   led to an increase in bank lending,
                                        and to a Loan Fund ($27 million) to   availability of foreign exchange in the
                                        finance fixed investment and          banking system, and in sub-borrowers'
                                        permanent working capital needs, on access to foreign exchange. In
                                        commercial terms, of viable private   addition, has led to an improvement in
                                        enterprises, especially to finance    sub-borrowers' financial performance,
                                        foreign exchange needs.               as measured by sales, profits, and
                                        No IDA financing was provided for     employment. Bank capital as well as
                                        BOP for which a target amount of      Foreign exchange supply increased
                                        $77.5 million was programmed.         6.7% for CBE and 34.7% for EDIB;
                                                                              profits 7.5% and 33.6% respectively.
                                                                              No increase in exports from private
                                                                              enterprises due to prevailing country
                                                                              conditions.

                                                                              Italian Cooperation Credit of $34
                                                                              million was provided. PMU-ERP
                                                                              reports that with the Italian soft loan of
                                                                              USD 34.0 million, 230 tractors, 470
                                                                              cultivation equipments, various
                                                                              irrigation equipments, 1 milk-
                                                                              processing plant, 1 tomato production
                                                                              line, 156 transport vehicles, spare-
                                                                              parts, gabions, etc., were procured.




Output Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR1                Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Component - Agriculture                Total of 770,000 individuals         In 2001, the MOA received 29
a: Number of war and drought-affected     Land Resources and Crop              tractors with their accessories, 24
persons provided with agricultural inputs Production. (53% of component)       threshers and 12 spreaders. The
and livestock.                            for 20,000 tons of seeds; US$2.8     project, however, provided 162,000
                                          million of Local hand tools; 1,500   tractor-hours of services at about USD
                                          tons of fertilizer.                  4.0 million to over 35,000 needy
                                          Mechanized Agric and Support         peasant farmers, enabling them to
                                          Services.                            cultivate over 71,000.00 ha of land.
                                          Animal Resources. 560,000 chicks, Towards the end of the project's life,
                                          feed, and animal housing; (ii) bee- 230 tractors and other agricultural
                                          keeping activities (stock, feed, and equipment and machineries worth
                                          animal housing); (iii) limited       over USD 12.5 million were procured
                                          restocking of about 156,000          with Italian loan fund and IDA
                                          ruminants.                           supplemental financing.

2(a). Infrastructure Rehabilitation -     Rehabilitated 4 bridges, 4 roads     Road Works: construction,
Roads Sector                              (197 km).                            reconstruction and/or upgrading of 4
(i) Number of damaged roads and                                                bailey bridges, 4 feeder roads, and 5
bridges reconstructed;                                                         roads (262 km) in the central belt
(ii) Number of links around central belt                                       completed.
rehabilitated, upgraded and reshaped;
(iii) Number of bailey bridges, roads, and
culverts constructed.



                                                       - 24 -

2(b). Infrastructure Rehabilitation -   -Hirgigo power plant remedial        Hirgigo power plant remedial works
Energy Sector                           works completed                      completed
                                        - Hirgigo 132/66/15KV substation     - Hirgigo 132/66/15KV substation
(i) rehabilitation of Massawa Hirgigo   switchgear installed as well as      installed
power plant which is the backbone of    - local control rooms for diesel     - Damaged Self-Contained System
Eritrean power system;                  generator units N.3 and N.4          (SCS) repaired in five towns
                                        - Damaged Self-Contained System - Spare parts for generators procured
(ii) replacement of power generators in (SCS) repaired in five towns         -Purchase of distribution materials
Barentu & Tesseney;                     - Spare parts for generators         completed.
                                        procured
                                        -Purchase of distribution materials
                                        completed.

(iii) repairs to the electrical power   Repairs to power systems in three    Total 7.8 km of 15V lines and 147
systems in Adi-Quala, Adi Keih and      towns completed.                     poles; 31 km of 230/380 V and 775
Senafe.                                                                      poles purchased; Also 13 transformers
                                                                             erected. Adi Keyih increased from
                                                                             1.47m KWH in 2000 to 2.55 m KWH
                                                                             2004.

3. Private Sector - Reconstruction      US$9.53 million provided to 1647     Overall, the PSR Evaluation evidence
Number of PFIs comply with prudential   war-affected enterprises. US$28.5    offers support to accept the
requirements set by Bank of Eritrea and million had also been disbursed      hypotheses that participation in the
adhere to their medium-term strategic   from the line of credit to all three PSR has helped improve bank
plan.                                   banks (i.e. EDIB, CBE, and           performance and compliance with
                                        HCBE).                               prudential supervisory standards,
                                                                             particularly in terms of its impact on
                                                                             the PFIs' capital base. This impact
                                                                             was insignificant at the HCB, small at
                                                                             the CBE, and large at the EDIB.

4. Social Protection                    Village Banks refinanced under       Tier I and Tier II.
Number of households assisted with      Tier I (loans up to $1000) and Tier Tier I village-banking model, loans
financing activities                    II (Loans up to $10,000 to groups    from Nakfa 3,000 to 40,000 to
                                        and individuals.                     individual members of solidarity
                                                                             groups.

                                        Tier I. Target of 88 village banks   179 new village banks established.
                                        established during implementation
                                        as per OIA.                          Tier II, loans to individual borrowers
                                                                             or small enterprises to finance
                                        Tier II, loans to be extended to     profitable projects that can also
                                        Original target of 6,187 clients.    benefit the community from Nakfa
                                                                             40,000 to 150,000.

                                                                             Financial services extended 16,322
                                                                             new clients from both tiers in 50 sub-
                                                                             regions, compared to original targets
                                                                             88 village banks and 6,187 clients.

                                                                             By end 2005, SMCP had 267 village
                                                                             banks and total clients base of 22,509
                                                                             individuals.
                                                                             Micro Credit schemes provided to
                                                                             12,805 Beneficiaries.



                                                    - 25 -

                                                                            -Cash transfers provided to 24,760
                                                                            households; and cash-for-work
                                                                            programs provided to 40,000
                                                                            households.

5. Number of subprojects implemented     Rehabilitation and Refurbishing of - 58 education subprojects
that are technically sound and           schools in Gash Barka and Debub; implemented with an estimated 85%
sustainable.                             makeshift classrooms constructed    found to be technically sound and
                                         for IDPs, teacher training center,  sustainable.
                                         school supplies, and training of    - Afambo Boarding school provides
                                         additional teachers.                classroom space; including lodging
                                                                             accommodations for close to 270
                                         -rehabilitation of basic health     marginalized children.
                                         facilities in Gash Barka and Debub; - 18,000 disabled persons provided
                                                                             with artificial appliances.
                                         Feeder/Access roads serving camps - 1 Bus station completed and found
                                         and returnee locations;             technically sound.
                                                                             - 4 feeder roads subprojects
                                         Bus station constructed;            completed and found to be technical
                                                                             sound.
                                         Water Supply Schemes financed by - 3 water supply subprojects are
                                         ADF.                                completed as of date of ICR.

6. Number of financial statements and    Quarterly progress reports planned; Quarterly progress reports issued
progress reports prepared and submitted  Annual Audit reports with           regularly and submitted through last
by PMU on time.                          management letters.                 quarter of 2005. Audit reports through
                                                                             2004 also prepared and submitted on
                                                                             time, with management letter. Audit
                                                                             report for 2005 to be completed by
                                                                             June 30. 2006.

7. Number of beneficiaries reached into: Support for Affected Enterprises    - Loan funds provided to 1647
(i) households and (ii) private          (SAE) for Commercial Bank of        affected enterprises.
enterprises.                             Eritrea, Housing and Commerce
                                         Bank of Eritrea (HCBE) and          - Debt relief provided to support 205
                                         Eritrea Development and             affected enterprises.
                                         Investment Bank (EDIB) to benefit
                                         2,967.
                                         Loan Fund (Total $27million, IDA
                                         US$18 million) to finance fixed
                                         investment and permanent working
                                         capital needs, e.g., machinery
                                         imports.
                                         TA ($3 million, IDA 2 million)




1 End of project




                                                       - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

                Component                      Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate          Percentage of
                                                    US$ million                    US$ million                Appraisal
Agriculture                                              43.0                          35.2                     82%
Infrastructure                                           61.0                          45.3                     74%
Private Sector Reconstruction                            45.0                          42.6                     95%
Social Protection                                        41.0                          51.7                     126%
Balance of Payments                                      77.5                          42.2                     54%
Project Management                                        4.0                          3.7                      91%
Total Baseline Cost                                     271.5                         220.6                     81%
 Physical Contingencies                                   8.1
 Price Contingencies                                      8.1
                       Total Project Costs              287.7                         220.6                     77%
              Total Financing Required                  287.7                         220.6                     77%
Note 1 : Contingencies added to the components under Actual.

Note 2 : The total Appraisal Estimate of US$287.7 million included a financing gap of US$30 million. - Danida Funding was
US$11.0 million, which was channeled directly through the implementing agencies and have not been accounted for under the
Actuals. France although committed US$3.0 million but did not disburse it under ERP. EU commitment was US$50.0 million
equivalent, but contributed only EUR 5 million accounted for under the GSE.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                                         Procurement Method 1/                                 Total
     Expenditure Category
                                         ICB            NCB                   Other2/            N.B.F.        Cost

                                         0.0              7.6                   28.1               0.0         35.7
1. Works
                                         0.0            (7.0)                  (26.0)                         (33.0)
                                         5.4             28.6                    3.8               0.0         37.7
2. Goods
                                        (5.0)           (26.4)                  (3.5)                         (34.9)
                                         0.0              0.0                    5.1               0.0         5.1
3. Services
                                                                                (5.1)                          (5.1)
                                         0.0              0.0                   18.0               0.0
4. Sub-Loans (PSR II)                                                                                          18.0
                                                                               (18.0)                         (18.0)
                                         0.0              0.0                   10.0               0.0         10.0
5. Loans to PFIs (PSR I)
                                                                               (10.0)                         (10.0)
                                         0.0              0.0                    2.0               0.0         2.0
6. Micro-sub loans (ECDF)
                                                                                (2.0)                          (2.0)
                                         0.0              0.0                    2.0               0.0         2.0
7. Operating Costs
                                                                                (2.0)                          (2.0)
                                         0.0              0.0                    0.0              77.5         77.5
8. Balance of Payments
                                                                                                               0.0

   Total                                 5.4             36.1                   68.9              177.3       287.7
                                        (5.0)           (33.4)                 (66.6)              0.0        (105.0)
Note: Breakdown of Category not available at appraisal for N.B.F.




                                                           - 27 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                                            Procurement Method 1/                                   Total
      Expenditure Category
                                          ICB               NCB                   Other2/             N.B.F.         Cost

                                           2.1               0.0                    38.2                29.4         69.6
1. Works
                                         (1.0)                                     (28.0)                           (29.0)
                                           1.6               0.5                    36.7                13.3         52.1
2. Goods
                                         (1.5)              (0.5)                  (35.5)                           (37.5)
                                           0.0               0.0                     3.5                0.8           4.3
3. Services
                                                                                    (3.4)                            (3.4)
                                           0.0               0.0                    18.2                0.0          18.2
4. Sub-Loans (PSR II)
                                                                                   (18.2)                           (18.2)
                                           0.0               0.0                    12.2                10.3         22.5
5. Loans to PFIs (PSR I)
                                                                                   (12.2)                           (12.2)
                                           0.0               0.0                     3.6                5.8           9.4
6. Micro-sub loans (ECDF)
                                                                                    (3.6)                            (3.6)
                                           0.0               0.0                     2.1                0.2           2.4
7. Operating Costs
                                                                                    (2.1)                            (2.1)
8. Balance of Payments                     0.0               0.0                     0.0                42.2         42.2
                                                                                                                      0.0
                                           3.7               0.5                   114.4               102.0        220.6
    Total
                                         (2.5)              (0.5)                  (103.0)                         (105.9)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit/Grant. All costs include contingencies.

2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                          Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate               Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                                                             CoF.
                           IDA Govt. CoF. IDA Govt.                                               IDA      Govt.      CoF.
                                                                  Italian ADB Arab Total
Agriculture                20.5     4.3    21.1    22.1   5.0                8.1    0.1   8.2   107.7% 115.0% 38.7%
Infrastructure             39.1     6.1    20.3    37.1   1.2         2.8           4.2   7.0    94.9%     19.5%     34.6%
Private Sector             31.6     3.9    12.1    32.3   0.0        10.3                 10.3  102.2%     0.0%      85.2%
Social Protection          10.7     3.8    27.1    12.8   4.9        17.7   11.1    5.2 34.0    118.7% 128.6% 125.7%
Balance of Payments        0.0      6.9    76.0    0.0    6.5        35.7                 35.7   0.0%      94.2%     47.0%
Project Management         3.1      0.3    0.7     1.7    1.6         0.1    0.2          0.3    55.4%    502.2% 44.0%
         TOTAL            105.0 25.4 157.3 105.9 19.1                66.7 19.4      9.5 95.5 100.9% 75.4%            60.7%




                                                               - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No analysis was carried out at Appraisal.




                                            - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
 Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
                     Month/Year Count          Specialty                    Progress        Objective
 Identification/Preparation
               07/01/2000                6      COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1);
                                                TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                                ECONOMIST (1);
                                                STATISTICIAN (1);
                                                CONSULTANTS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               09/04/2000                9      TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                SECTOR MANAGER
                                                (1); SR. ECONOMIST
                                                (1); SR. FINAN.
                                                MANANGEMENT
                                                SPEC. (1); SR.
                                                HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                                (1); LEAD SPECIALIST
                                                (1); STATISTICIAN (1);
                                                SR. COUNSEL (1);
                                                OPERATIONS
                                                ANALYST (1);
                                                CONSULTANT (1)
 Supervision
               12/04/2001                 5     SR. HIGHWAY                     S               S
                                                ENGINEER (2);
                                                CONSULTANT (1);
                                                TEMPORARY (1);
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                (1)

               02/28/2002                 5     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER            S               S
                                                (2); CONSULTANT (1);
                                                TEMPORARY (1);
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

               06/30/2002                 6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S               S
                                                FINAN. MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                                OPER. OFF./PRIV.SECTOR
                                                (1); OPER.OFF./SOCIAL
                                                FUND (1);
                                                ENVIRONMENT,CONSULT
                                                ANT (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                (1)

               04/25/2003                 8     TTL (1); AG SECTOR (1);         S               S
                                                FOOD SECURITY (1);
                                                PUBLIC WORKS (1);
                                                OPERATIONS SOCIAL



                                               - 30 -

                                                FUND (1); OPERATIONS
                                                SUPPORT (1); ROADS (1);
                                                PRIVATE SECTOR / SMCP
                                                (1)

               04/17/2004                 7     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                                                COUNTRY MANAGER (1);
                                                COMMUNITY
                                                PROJECTS(1); ROADS
                                                ENGINEER (1);
                                                PROCUREMENT
                                                SPECIALIST(1); FINANCE
                                                OFFICEER(1); FINANCIAL
                                                MANAGEMENT(1)
               10/30/2004                 6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                                                COUNTRY MANAGER (1);
                                                COMMUNITY PROJECTS
                                                (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                                (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                                                OFFICER (1);
                                                PROCUREMENT
                                                SPECIALIST (1)
               01/05/2005                 3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                                                SR. FINANCIAL MGMT
                                                SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
 ICR
               02/07/2005                5       PROCUREMENT                   S    S
                                                 SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS
                                                 ANALYST (1); SR.
                                                 OPERATIONS
                                                 OFFICER (1);
                                                 HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                                 (1); CONSULTANT (1)




(b) Staff:

      Stage of Project Cycle   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                7.96                     30.91
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   39.24                     150.29
  Supervision                             92.97                     310.54
  ICR                                       8.56                     27.60
  Total                                  148.73                     519.34




                                               - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. World Bank, Development Credit Agreement (Emergency Reconstruction Project ­ Credit No.
    3434-ER), between the State of Eritrea and International Development Association, December 6,
    2000.
 2. World Bank, Project Agreement (Emergency Reconstruction Project ­ Credit No. 3434-ER),
    between International Development Association and bank of Eritrea,
    December 6, 2000.
 3. World Bank, Memorandum of the President, April 22, 2002.
 4. World Bank, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports and Implementation
    Status Reports, 2001-2005.
 5. Project Management Unit ­ ERP, Quarterly Progress Reports, 2001-2005.
 6. The PMU-ERP Reports on the Welfare of Households in the Aftermath of Ethiopia's Third
    Invasion, Baseline Report, August 13, 2002.
 7. A First Follow-up Survey, July 2003.
 8. A Second Follow up Survey on the Welfare of Households, August 2004.
 9. Third Follow Up Survey on the Welfare of Households, February 2005.
10. Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Program, Outcome Impact Assessment Study, Final Report ­
    Prepared by Project Consultants: Siham Mohamedahmed (Team Leader), Asmerom Kidane, Meaza
    Abraha, Mehreteab Hagos, Solomon Tsegay, Teklemariam Zeggu and Tesfamariam Tekie, April 5,
    2006.
11. Impact Assessment of the Private Sector Reconstruction Program. A report submitted to PMU-ERP
    and the World Bank, by Gary Woller and Kiflemariam Zerom, Instruction Program. A report
    submitted to PMU-ERP and the World Bank, by Gary Woller and Kiflemariam Zerom, Project
    Consultants, March 16, 2006.
12. Interim Support Strategy, 2000.
13. Transitional Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy, 2001.
14. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), 2003.




                                               - 34 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results


                   I. Some Results From Outcome And Impact Assessment Survey

A.      Background of the Evaluation

The IDA-financed Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP) closed at the end of December 2004. The
program was launched in February 2001 to assist Eritrea in the process of long-term reconstruction and
economic recovery in the aftermath of its war with Ethiopia. The program consisted of five sub-
components: agriculture, infrastructure rehabilitation, private sector reconstruction, social protection, and
balance of payments. The ERP was implemented in a very challenging environment characterized by
lingering tensions of the no war no peace situation arising from the unresolved border dispute with its
neighboring Ethiopia, influx of refugees and prolonged drought.

A Program Management Unit PMU-ERP had continually compiled information on the implementation
status/achievements of the project, focusing mainly on the outputs such as procurement of planned goods,
and completion of works, and associated expenditure, (in the form of quarterly progress reports) from the
various components of the project. However, there was a need for carrying out an outcome measurement
survey to capture the impact of projects on the targeted population. Hence, the PMU-ERP commissioned
a study to carry out detailed evaluation of the outcome impact of the implemented projects to capture their
outcomes in terms of real impact on the targeted beneficiaries, such as increased agricultural production,
value of marketed products, income and school attendance and to catalogue key lessons learned. These
lessons are expected to guide the development of the next operation.

During the last week of September 2005, the PMU formally contracted various national consultants and
one international consultant to form an ERP Assessment Team (hereafter referred to as the Team) to work
closely with PMU counterparts to assess the Agriculture, Road, Power, and Social components of the
ERP. The team during the period of October 23 and November 6, 2005 initiated the study and developed
the evaluation methodology and approach to carry out the impact assessment study and then presented its
inception report.

This report included here presents the evaluation objectives, approach and methodology and some of the
major findings and lessons learned from assessing the outcome impact of the above mentioned three
components of the ERP.

B.      Evaluation Objectives Approach and Methodology

The evaluation objectives described in the inception report were:

        a) To assess the extent to which project objectives were achieved and the efficacy of the
            intervention;
        b) To assess the impact of various interventions on households welfare and the prospect of
            sustainability of this impact;
        c) To assess the implementation experience, identify successful and innovative approaches used
            during implementation, as well as the difficulties encountered and the means used to address
            them.
        d) To draw out lessons from the implementation experience, especially those relevant to the
            ongoing and future projects in Eritrea, in order to identify potential successful activities that
            could be replicated and/or up-scaled.




                                                   - 35 -

The evaluation will therefore answer the following questions:

        a) For each type of investment, what evidence exists of positive impacts in social conditions at
             household level (improved educational attainment, better access to medical attention,
             increased productivity, and increased household welfare)?
        b) How effective were the implementing agencies in reaching their physical objectives?
        c) To what extent can the benefits of the various components be sustained after project
             completion?
        d) Have women and men had equal opportunities to participate in overall project activities and
             in individual components?

C.      Data collection Instruments

The Evaluation is based on a review of project documents; a series of interviews with those involved in
the project, focus groups discussion, and on three sets of in-depth sample surveys carried out in
November and January 2005-06, namely, the household survey, community survey and the institutional
survey, which included all types of schools. The PMU-ERP administered all quantitative data collection,
data entry, data cleaning, pilot testing, and preliminary analysis. The national consultants administered
and analyzed all qualitative instruments including focus groups discussion, case studies, and key
informative interviews.

a) Household Survey

The household questionnaires covered the condition of the dwelling and basic socioeconomic information
of the household, in addition to specialized modules for all the sub-components of the components under
evaluation: agriculture, education, power, roads, and saving and micro finance.

The sample was designed to allow a comparison between households with and without ERP intervention.
To that end, the sample was divided into unequal proportions between the ERP beneficiary households
and those who did not benefit from ERP. In each case, a sample of households was drawn from the area
of influence of the project in Debub and Gash Barka regions. Given that nearly 421 villages in the two
Zobas were reached, the principal variable to the evaluation of the activity's impact centered on the
sample coverage and the sample size. The criteria for selection were purposive and included the
magnitude of war devastation as well as multiplicity of project benefits. Based on these criteria, three sub-
Zobas namely, Tsorona, Senafe and Areza were selected from Debub, and five sub-Zobas ­ Guluj,
Haikota, Lailai Gash, Mogolo and Shambuko were selected from Gash Barka. In total, 2503 households
were selected, 1503 from Debub and 1000 from Gash Barka. It is believed that the sample of beneficiaries
can provide a fair picture of how beneficiaries perceive the impact of the projects on their lives.

Annex 1 (of the full Final OIA report) further describes the designed sample and details of the number of
households selected in each village and gives further details on the sample design. It also describes the
corresponding estimation procedures and reports estimation errors, which turned to be acceptable in
almost all cases.

b) Community Survey

The community survey sought to establish the community's perception of the benefits and disadvantages
of the project. Community questionnaire was administered in both Zobas covering 26 villages in Zoba
Debub and 16 villages in Zoba Gash Barka. (See Annexes 6 & 7 of the full Final Report). The



                                                    - 36 -

participants were asked to evaluate the priority (i.e., relative importance) and usefulness of the project, the
quality of the installation, and the benefits at household and community level. The survey included
sections on geographic and climatic conditions, the state of transport infrastructure, water supply systems,
schools, and healthcare facilities.

The respondents were representatives of local authorities, informal leaders, NGOs, and social workers.
An important feature of the community survey data is that it covers all villages selected for household
survey. Thus, we have a complete overlap between these two sources of data. This allows us to use both
community and household level information for our evaluation.

c) Institutional Questionnaire (School Survey)

Three institutional questionnaires were prepared for elementary, JSS schools and Afambo Boarding
School in Gash Barka and Debub to evaluate the 56 ERP school projects that were completed as planned.
In this report, however, a special questionnaire was prepared and administered for 20 elementary and JSS
schools in Gash Barka and 9 in Debub. The questionnaires were filled by school principals/heads to
provide, among other things, general information on school condition, student enrolment, and dropout
rate.

d) The Design of the Qualitative Study

The qualitative study was designed as a complement of the quantitative study. Several focus group
discussions were conducted for each sub-component including special group discussions with female
beneficiaries especially from poultry and SMP sub-components. Number, size, sample, selection and
composition of group discussion vary per component. Detailed information on FGD selection and
discussion findings can be found in separate reports of each component produced by a national consultant
from PMU.

D.       Limitation of Evaluation

As discussed in the inception report and agreed by stakeholders this evaluation will not have comparison
(counterfactual) groups to measure the true impact of the project on beneficiaries by comparing the
observed outcome for a group of beneficiaries to the observed condition of the same group before the
intervention. Nonetheless reflexive comparisons were used by asking the respondents to compare their
status before and after the intervention. Changes that are revealed by reflexive comparisons may not
certainly be attributed to ERP interventions.

E.       Summary of Main Findings


Project Management

         · PMU managed the project well and was proactive in addressing issues that might have
             affected implementation.
         · The lack of any serious fiduciary shortcomings is another credit to the PMU.
         · PMU lacked a focus on systematic and regular outcome and impact monitoring on its
             activities.
         · The performance of implementing agencies was generally satisfactory. However, some
             implementing agencies had limited capacity that caused delays in implementation of the
             project components. Also agencies did not pay good attention to monitoring and evaluating
             the results of their respective activities.



                                                      - 37 -

Agriculture

        · The Agricultural Component has made an overall positive impact on the beneficiaries,
            although there is variation among sub-components and elements.
        · The rain-fed sub-component has produced positive impact by enabling the IDPs to return to
            their original villages and restart their normal life.
        · Level of crop production in rain fed agriculture is less than before invasion (2001-2004) due
            to drought, but rain-fed cropping appears to produce modest impact in 2005 because of higher
            rainfall.
        · Sustainability of rain fed agriculture is uncertain since it is highly correlated with erratic
            pattern of rainfall in Eritrea.
        · The irrigated crop sub-component has produced positive impact on the livelihood of the
            beneficiaries due to adequate increase of income of the majority of beneficiary farmers. The
            results show that both yield and cultivated land increased after using irrigation pumps
            (146%).
        · The poultry element has contributed marginally to the improvement of the livelihood of the
            female-headed households, but the level of impact was not adequate due to the low income
            obtained which is likely attributed to implementation and design shortcomings.
        · Beekeeping did not achieve its objective due to its faulty design and had minimal or no
            impact on beneficiaries

Infrastructure rehabilitation

        · The ERP constructed roads and bridges have contributed to the reduction in the number of
            displaced households and facilitated the provision of emergency assistance and other relief
            measures to people affected by the conflict. It has also contributed to the safe return of the
            displaced people after the cessation of hostilities following the Algiers Agreement
        · Capacity building in the field of construction (people that were traditionally farmers have
            acquired skills as masons, plumbers, etc.) and in particular training of people in the
            installation of bailey bridges as well as in the operation of new equipment and machinery is a
            significant impact on human development.
        · Employment during construction was also important and most participants were able to work
            on these roads including women.
        · The rural residents considered improved access to be of huge value. However, most of the
            village/town respondents in the surveys indicated that transport tariffs were not affordable.
        · The project contributed to the recovery of the Power sector, especially on the supply side, as
            the total generation and supply of electricity in the five rehabilitated towns increased from
            2,817,684 KWH in 2000 to 7,248,191 KWH after rehabilitation (157% increase).
        · The total number of customers connected in the five towns also increased by 30% from 6,088
            to 7,893 and the number of micro and small registered enterprises increased from 1896 in
            2000 to 2467 at the end of 2004 (30% increase).
        · As the result of power restoration, increased generation capacity, and availability of spare
            parts and distribution materials, EEC is now expanding its service to rural areas. However,
            the electric tariff appears to be unaffordable for the majority of consumers.




                                                     - 38 -

Social Protection

        · ERP constructed and rehabilitated schools contributed to increased enrolment and reduced
             travel distance to school in particular at the elementary levels in Debub and in Gash Barka.
             Currently, however, these schools have shortage of teachers and basic teaching and learning
             materials such as textbooks. Also, available data as corroborated by the FGDs suggest that
             their impact on junior secondary schools is not significant enough so as to encourage girls'
             education.
        · Because of makeshift classrooms constructed by ERP prior to school construction, schooling
             was not interrupted in the war-affected areas.
        · Overall, there were 55-60 students per classroom in the surveyed elementary schools, while
             teacher/pupil ratio was 56, which is slightly higher than the national average of about 45. This
             indicates that classes in ERP schools were slightly overcrowded.
        · Afambo Boarding School contributed 16.4 percent of enrolment in Southern Red Sea region.
             In 2003/04, the total enrolment in JSS level in Zoba Southern Red Sea was 1583, of which
             the Afambo Boarding School contributed 16.4 percent. The share of this school in total JSS
             enrolment in 2004/05 increased to 23.1 percent, showing the acceptance of schooling
             between the Afar Ethic group, whose livelihood system is dominated by nomadic way of life.
             Nevertheless, equal access to education for girls has not yet been realized due to cultural and
             religious factors.
        · Feeder roads have connected villages to the main roads and to the basic socio-economic
             facilities. They have facilitated quicker travel to market places and health facilities as well as
             significantly increasing social trips. The decrease in travel time contributed to an increase in
             the use of health services. However, in many cases, the feeder roads have not attracted
             regular public transport service to many villages, which would have stimulated agricultural
             production and created links between deficit and surplus areas.
        · The findings indicate that although the SMCP have performed below a set standard on
             average, the program had a significant impact on linking the poor to sources of credit. The
             number of clients increased from 6187 in 2000 to 16337 clients in 2003 while the number of
             village banks increased from 88 in 2000 to 191 in the same period.
        · Getting cash support to 24, 760 poor people positively affected their sense of safety and
             security. The promptly provided support enabled people to survive, put funds into the
             economy, and was reported as highly preferable to in-kind support by beneficiaries.
        · Cash for work program contributed to restoration of degraded vegetation by planting more
             than 4,000,000 trees. It provided income-earning opportunities while at the same time it
             supported development activities, such as land preparation, collection of grass to support feed
             security for animals, watershed protection and soil conservation.
        · 18,000 beneficiaries have benefited from various kinds of artificial appliances financed by the
             ERP.

F. Lessons of Broad Applicability

Projects such as ERP, that are prepared in a very short time with a view to respond to a post conflict
emergency, cannot be prepared with the same degree of detail as a traditional operation. Thus they have
to be designed with a great built-in flexibility in order to be able to adequately address unforeseeable
needs and conditions as they evolve from the reconstruction process. Operations developed in post
conflict situations should be open to corrections amid emerging realities on the ground. While this is
important for all operations, it is more so for projects in countries emerging from conflict.

A rigorous monitoring and evaluation system is imperative to ensure that all intermediate targets are met.
Monitoring is necessary to provide management with ongoing information as to what parts of the plan are


                                                     - 39 -

working and what parts need to be altered. Emphasis needs to be given to ensuring the establishment of
an effective participatory M&E system, including adequate beneficiary assessment and feedback.
Monitoring and evaluation should be accompanied by an Economic Sector Work (ESW) program that
includes household and community studies that address human and social capital issues as well as income
generation needs and constraints.

Multi-donor operations are too complex to manage. It is important that responsibilities for donor
coordination are well-established early in the program; that different emergency procurement and
disbursement procedures are well harmonized; and that flexibility in these procedures is introduced, since
in an emergency situation speed of implementation is as critical as accountability.

Smaller and more focused projects that involve fewer implementing agencies improve the management's
chance of success with regard to implementation. Financing of crop production inputs need to be
provided as a package. When only some inputs, such as seeds or fertilizers are provided the benefit to
beneficiaries (and satisfaction) is minimal or nonexistent

Project implementation should be mainstreamed into the activities of the implementing agency. The
project design should be part of the strategic plan of the implementing agency. This approach in project
design and implementation would facilitate internalization and enhance ownership and sustainability. In
addition, PIUs should have specialized technical personnel in all key focal/delivery areas.

Displaced families require minimal support as an incentive for returning to their villages. The primary
need identified by resettling families is food security. While the goal is for communities to attain food
security through agricultural production, it is crucial that returning families have access to adequate cash
or food support as they await the harvest of their first crop.

In a country where the majority of the rural population is described as extremely poor, it was not easy to
come up with a targeting criterion that would avoid serious inclusion and exclusion errors. Since the
resources of Donors-financed recovery project can rarely meet all the needs for recovery, narrower target
criteria embracing the poor in particular, can help better focusing of the assistance.

Reconstruction efforts must consider the possible economic difficulties faced by women in post-conflict
situations (e.g., lack of labor at critical times in the agricultural season), since in many post-conflict
countries a third or more of the working-age men have been killed and women are the productive base for
restarting the economy.




                                                       - 40 -

                                 BASIC DATA: DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS

       Table 1: Distribution of benefits received by households from the household survey by Village
                                                                                                                     Sample

               Farm   Tractor   Cereal Vege-             Irriga-          Bee     Cash   Cash      Total   Benefited  size

               tools  service   seeds  table  Fertilizer  tion   Poultry keeping transfer for SMCP no. of   house-   house-
                                       seeds             pumps                           work      benefits holds    holds

Tsorona          11      19       25     3         4       2       10     0         17    15   12   118       39          45
Dibi             38      34       47     0         3        .      16      .        27    17    0   182       56          60
Adi Keren        19      31       16     0         9        .       7      .        23    15    1   121       40          42
Mai Chena        36       6       31     0         8        .       2     0         24     5    .   112       46          47
Sarda            30      13       32     0         8       1        8     0         32    14    4   142       52          58
Wulsho           20      24       13     0         2        .       6     0         17     0    .    82       31          34
Areza            36       0       69     0       55         .      36      .        12    27   10   245      102         127
Degumemet        20       0       30     0       30         .      10     3          0    10    0   103       34          35
Adi Hese'a       25       0       43     0        16        .      10      .         0     6    0   100       54          74
Adi Harkan       10       0       33     1        30        .      19      .         0     0    1    94       35          38
Adi tekualu      20       0       37     0        27        .       1      .        12    34    7   138       39          39
Adi Gulti        14       0       45     0       23         .      21     0          0     9    0   112       51          56
Adi Beza         13       0       35     0       30         .      12      .         0     5    .    95       43          50
Adi Abagi'e      44       2       34     9        57       0       26     4         12    16    1   205       64          65
Mekayh
+Cheguaro        36       8      53      3       57        1        9     0         14     0    1   182       63          65
Malihdege        55       0       39     0       26         .      20     9         31     0    .   180       61          65
Mirara           20       2      29      0       29         .      17      .        10     3    1   111       36          36
Ruba Natsa       89       0      104    11        92       2       21     0         59    22    1   401      116         117
Ambesete Geleba  54       0        0     0         0        .       3      .        42    52    .   151       63          65
Meshal Akran      7       0        0     0         0        .      11      .        25     5    .    48       36          48
Tisha            24      35       30     0       37         .      28     1         18    20    0   193       39          47
Nedwe            48       0       37     0       34         .      14     2         24    36    1   196       56          60
Awlie Hahayle    24      34       34     0        35        .      10      .        22    37    1   197       47          48
Mai Goduf        26       1       53     0       40         .      14     3         20    14    0   171       55          56
Mai Tera         60       1       47     0       55         .      27      .        21     1    0   212       65          65
Kisad Emba       39       2       48     2        52       0       22     1         30     0    0   196       60          61
Tebeldya         45      98       62     0         0        .       0      .        59    21   15   300      114         118
Amongula         43      51       40     0         0        .       0      .         0    26    .   160       54          61
Drasa            61      61       61     0         0        .       0      .         0     .    .   183       61          61
Bultubyay        18      27       30     0         0        .       0      .         0    15    .    90       34          35
Alebu             4      65       26     1         0       1       11      .         0     .   31   139       67          68
Gerenfit         16      38       25     0         0        .      23      .         0     .    0   102       43          46
Arakub           13       8       24     0         0        .       0      .        20     .    .    65       30          37
Tekombia         18      53       70     2         1       4       16      .        44     4   33   245       85         109
Awgaro           20      24       25     1         0       1        8      .        10     0   16   105       38          43
Deret             8      18       37     0         0        .       1      .        19    20    .   103       44          50
Adi Genad         5       0       30     0         0        .       1      .         1    26    2    65       36          45
Areda            32      30       34     0         0        .       9      .        25    38    .   168       58          61
Tsibra           26       7        2     0         0        .       7      .        33     1    9    85       49          64
Girme            29       7        1     1         0       0        2      .        34     3   14    91       53          64
Dembe Himbrit    17       2        0     0         0       1        6      .        30     0   13    69       50          68
Binibina         33      46       48     1         2       0       11      .        32    17    8   198       62          70
Total          1206     747     1479    35      762       13      475    23        799   534  182  6255     2261        2503




                                                        - 41 -

                                          AGRICULTURE COMPONENT

 Table 2. Activities planned and achieved by sub-component
Sub-component - Animal resources
                                                                           % plan
Element            Activity                 unit   planned       Actual    achieved       Remark
Poultry             Day old chicks          no      500,000      602,000        120
                    Feed                    mt           750        5,700       760
                    Housing                 no       15,000              -         0
                    Electric heaters        no              -          14          -
                    Training                no              -       6,284          -
Bee keeping         Bee-hives               no              -       4,600          - One for each HH.
                    Training                no        1,500         1,518       101
Dairy               Cows                    no           135           35        26 17 additional brought
                                                                                     by government
                    Shed                    no              8           1        13
                    Pump house              no              3           3       100  Under construction
                    Reservoir               no              3           3       100  Under construction
                    Generator house         no              1           1       100  Under construction
                    Feed                    mt           375             -         0
Animal health       Clinic                  no            12            2        17
Restocking          Cows                    no        1,875            30          2
                    Shoat                   no       11,250         3,159        28
Rangeland           Forage seed             kg         2,790          886        31
development
                     Shoat yard             no              -           5          -
                     Bore holes             no              -          31          -
Average achievement of planned activities(excluding not                        99. 8
planned)
Sub-component - Natural resources and crop production
                                                                            % Plan
     Element                Activity        Unit    Planned      Actual    Achieved
 Rain-fed           Seeds - vegetables      mt           210           461       220
                             -cereals       mt        14,000        16,963       121
                    fertilizers             mt         1,517         3,000       198
                    Sprayers                no         2,200          173          8
          rrigated Water pump                no          900          889         99
 Natural            watershed
resources           management
                      - hillside terracing  km           882         6,603       749
                      - check dam           m3        17,608      179,735       1021
                      - Macro basins        no       115,701         8,780         8
                      - seedling             no      945,425     4,176,984       442
                     production
                      - soil bunds          km              -         291          -
                      - stone bunds         km              -         917          -
                      - pitting / planting  no              -    3,829,481         -
Average achievement of planned activities (excluding not planned)              318.4




                                                   - 42 -

INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT

    (a)     Roads

Table 1: ERP Main Roads and Bridges
                                              Actual
                  Project                    length (in   Starting date Completion date
                                               km)
 1. Roads
 1.1. Azhara - Afabet Road                      37          Dec. 2000    Oct. 2002
 1.2. Abrera ­ Azhara ­ Maamide Road            49          Dec. 2000    May 2003 + 1 yr. DLP*
 1.3. Afabet ­ Felket ­ Naro Road               58          Nov. 2000    Dec. 2004 +**
 1.4. Keru ­ Kerkebet Road                      89          Nov. 2000    March 2003**
 1.5. Tessenei ­ Telata Asher Road              29          Nov. 2000    Sept. 2002
 2. Bridges
 2.1. Tessenei Bridge                          42m          Aug. 2000    Sept. 2000
 2.2. Kerkebet Bridge                          76m          Jan. 2001    June 2001
 2.3. Awgaro Bridge                            45m         April 2001    July 2001
 2.4. Kuluku Bridge                            42m         April 2001    July 2001
Source: MOPW, 2006
Note: *DLP=Delayed Liability Period
      ** Continued by Govt' fund


Table 2: Trip purpose on main roads by selected sub-Zobas

Sub-Zoba                              Purpose of travel on main roads (% of respondents)
                       Social trips  Health related trips    Market related trips   Other
Tsorona                    58.8                18.8                   12.7                9.7
Senafe                     39.7                20.8                   28.8               10.7
Areza                      47.7                20.7                   24.4               7.2
Sub-total Debub            48.7                20.1                   22.0               9.2
Haikota                    33.6                14.4                   38.4               13.6
Shambuko                   41.2                 -                     27.7               31.1
Goluj                      43.6                21.0                   27.0                8.4
Mogolo                     44.6                13.9                   28.7               12.8
Overall                    40.6                18.0                   29.5                2.4
Sub-total Gash
Barka                      40.7                16.8                   30.3               13.7



Table 3: Public transport tariff Affordability by village/Town
Village/Town                    % of village respondents `transport tariffs unaffordable'
Tsorona                                                      90.5
Areza                                                        92.4
Senafe                                                       81.7
Sub-total Debub                                              88.2
Haikota                                                      96.1
Mogolo                                                       96.6
Shambuko                                                     90.9
Sub-total Gash Barka                                         94.5




                                                      - 43 -

     (a)    Energy

     Table 1: Rehabilitation of Self-Contained System
                                  Rehabilitated Lines and Poles Used                    Transformers
    Town                          15 KV                           220/380                 Erected
                      Lines in Km.      Poles in No.   Lines in Km.    Poles in No.        In No.
     Senafe                  3.6              72               9           225                4
     Adi Keyih               2.6              43             14            350                5
     Adi Quala               1.6              32               8           200                4
     Bqrentu                 1.8              36               9           225                4
     Tessenei              1.75               35             8.8           219                4
     Total                11.35             218             48.8          1219               21




     Table 2: Quantity of power produced and number of consumers before and after the project
                                         Generation in KWH                    Generation in KWH
    Town                             2000             2004        %      2000        2004         %
     Senafe                               -            -           -      1032       1429         38
     Adi Keyih                       1468390        2552150       74      2000       2344         17
     Adi Quala                            -            -           -      1000       1263         26
     Barentu                          515016        2241446      335       898       1341         49
     Tessenei                         834277        2454595      194      1158       1516         31




SOCIAL PROTECTION COMPONENT

Table 1: Flow Rates and Percent females in flow rates (Gash Barka)
                                                            % of females in     % of females in    % of females
    Year                  Flow rates (elem. %)              total enrolment     total repeaters  in total drop-outs
                 Drop out      Repetition     Promotion      Elemen    JSS      Elemen      JSS    Elemen     JSS
 1999/2000          5.1           17.5           77.4          43.9      0       45.2        0       37.6       0
 2000/2001          3.6           23.8           72.6          44.4    37.5      40.0        7.6     33.3      40.0
 2001/2002          4.7           26.4           68.9          42.7    40.2      45.3       43.7     37.7      50.0
 2002/2003          4.3           26.3           73.6          44.1    23.4      45.7       42.1     34.9      40.0
 2003/2004          3.8           22.6           73.6          44.4    23.4      43.8       48.1     43.4      23.0
 2004/2005          5.5           16.4           78.1          44.0    23.9      44.7       34.5     46.4      41.3
Source: Results of School Survey, PMU/ERP


   Table 2: Flow Rates of Female Students in Elementary schools (Debub)
             Year              % of females in       % Repeaters      % Drop-outs
                               total enrolment
          1999/2000               38.50                51.00                47.00
          2000/2001               44.25                53.10                40.50
          2001/2002               41.80                48.00                40.82
          2002/2003               42.39                50.35                47.37
          2003/2004               42.52                45.97                45.19
          2004/2005               44.27                51.12                42.78
   Source: Calculated data using Institutional Questionnaire




                                                         - 44 -

Table 3: Enrolment in Junior Secondary School in Zoba Southern Red Sea
                                                                    Enrolment
      Year         School name/village          Sub-Zoba     Male    Female   Total
 2001/2002       Tio                         Maekelay         456        34      490
                 Hamed I.Awate               Assab            342      282       624
                 (Assab)
 2002/2003       Tio                         Maekelay         798      316      1114
                 Hamed I.Awate               Assab            499        34      533
                 (Assab)
 2003/2004       Tio                         Maekelay         403        29      432
                 Hamed I. Awate              Assab            515      377       892
                 Afambo                                       268         1      269
                Sub-total                                    1176      407      1583
 2004/2005       Tio                         Maekelay         517        43      560
                 Hamed I. Awate              Assab            523      353       876
                 Afambo                                       303         8      311
                Sub-total                                    1343      404      1747
Source: Calculated from data from Institutional Questionnaire


Table 4: Percent of Children Attending Elementary School of total School
         Age Children
        Sub Zoba                Male            Female        Total
 Tsorona                        85.0             63.1          76.5
 Areza                          89.3             83.15         86.6
 Senafe                         97.1             93.5          95.5
 Sub-total Debub                93.1             86.2          90.0
 Goluj                          79.5             78.5          79.1
 Haikota                        90.2             93.5          91.4
 Laelay Gash                    91.7             88.5          90.3
 Mogolo                         71.74            73.2          72.3
 Shambuko                       90.5             86.7          88.6
 Sub-total Gash Barka            85.4            84.2          84.9
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP



Table 5: School Access/Location -Percent of students to `which school they go'
                                            Neighboring                   Combination
Sub-Zoba                    In village         village      Nearby town      of all   Total
 Tsorona                       34.4            24.2            25.8          15.6      100
 Areza                         60.3            12.7             7.0          20.0      100
 Senafe                        27.4            36.0            15.5          21.1      100
 Sub-total Debub               37.9            27.4            14.8          19.9      100
 Goluj                         91.8             1.9             0.6           5.7      100
 Haikota                       90.2               -                -          9.8      100
 Laelay Gash                   97.0             1.2                -          1.8      100
 Mogolo                        83.9             1.1             8.0           6.9      100
 Shambuko                      70.6            11.9            15.6           1.9      100
 Sub-total Gash Barka          86.1             4.4             5.8           3.2      100
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP




                                                      - 45 -

Table 6: Reason for not sending children to elementary school (% of household's)
 Major Reason                                 Before Invasion              After Invasion
 No school in the village                          22.1%                       12.0%
 Distance to school                                14.3%                       23.2%
 Parents/Families do not afford                    14.3%                       18.9%
 Other reasons                                     49.4%                       45.9%
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP


Table 7: Reason for not sending children to elementary school by Sub-Zoba (% of households)
                                 Before Invasion                          After Invasion
 Sub-Zoba                No      Do not                         No       Do not
                        School    afford  Distance   Other    School      afford   Distance  Other
 Tsorona                  -        28.6     14.3      57.1      1.4         42.3     14.1     42.3
 Areza                   30.0      30.0       -       40.0     22.5         27.5     20.0     30.0
 Senafe                  42.9      14.3     21.4      21.4     16.3         30.2     20.9     32.6
Sub-total Debub          24.3      24.3     11.9      39.5     13.4         33.3     18.3     35.0
 Goluj                    -         8.3      8.3      83.3     32.3         12.9      6.5     48.4
 Laelay Gash             33.3      33.3       -       33.3       8.3         8.3     16.7     66.7
 Mogolo                   -         -       12.5      87.5       -          21.7      4.3     73.9
 Shambuko                35.0      10.0     30.0      25.0       -             -     16.7     83.3
 Sub-total Gash
 Barka                   17.1      12.9     12.7      57.3     10.2         10.7     11.1     68.1
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP


Table 8: Reason for not sending children to Junior S. School (% of household's)
 Major reason                              Before Invasion             After invasion
 No JSS in the village                         20.0%                        31.8%
 Distance to school                            20.0%                        15.9%
 Parents/Families do not afford                    -                         9.1%
 Other reasons                                  60.0%                       43.2%
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP



Table 9: Reason for not sending children to Junior S. School by sub-Zobas (% of household's)
Sub-Zoba                   No J.S. School      do not afford         Distance           Other
 Tsorona                       25.0          -                         25.0              50.0
Areza                          31.3               18.8                 18.8              31.3
Senafe                         11.1               22.2                  -                66.7
Sub-total Debub                22.5               13.7                 14.6              49.3
Goluj                          50.0               25.0                    -              25.0
Haikota                           -               50.0                    -              50.0
Laelay Gash                     60.0                -                     -              40.0
Mogolo                         100.0                -                     -               -
Sub-total Gash Barka            52.5              18.8                    -              28.8
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP




                                                   - 46 -

Table 10: Drop-out rate in Junior S. Schools in Sample sub-Zobas
 Sub-Zoba                      Before invasion       After invasion
 Tsorona                             4.0                   24.6
 Areza                               3.1                   19.9
 Senafe                              1.3                    4.6
 Sub-total Debub                     2.8                   16.4
 Goluj                               6.0                   25.1
 Haikota                             6.3                   11.8
 Laelay Gash                         2.9                   10.3
 Mogolo                              4.1                   31.6
 Shambuko                            7.8                   15.2
 Sub-total Gash Barka                6.8                   23.5
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP


Table 11: Reason for not sending children to JSS by Sub-Zoba (% of Households)
                               Before Invasion                           After Invasion
 Sub-Zoba         Distance Marriage Financial Other            Distance Marriage Financial Other
 Tsorona              -         60.0          -          40.0    6.1     33.3       12.1   48.5
 Areza                -         57.1         14.3        28.6   10.9     23.9       19.6   45.7
 Senafe             20.0        40.0         40.0        -        -      21.7       30.4   47.8
 Sub-total
 Debub                -         52.4         18.1        22.9    5.7     26.3       20.7   47.3
 Goluj                8.3       41.7         16.7        33.3    8.3     33.3       12.5   45.8
 Haikota            14.3        42.9         14.3        28.6      -     33.3        11.1  55.6
 Laelay Gash        16.7        33.3           -         50.0    5.0     30.0         -    65.0
 Mogolo               -          -             -        100.0    4.2     20.8         8.3  66.7
 Shambuko             -          -             -        100.0      -     27.8         5.6  66.7
 Sub-total
 Gash Barka          9.8        29.5         15.5        62.4    5.8     29.0         9.4  60.0
Source: Computed from Household Survey, PMU/ERP


Table 12: Important education indicators (2004/05)
 1. Teacher/pupil ratio                           1:56
    (Elementary)
 2. Teacher/classroom Ratio                        1:1
 3. Rejection rate (grades 1-5)
 3.1. Boys                                        6.2%
 3.2. Girls                                       4.3%
 4. Teachers
 4.1. Percent females                             31.8%
 4.2. Additional required teachers             4 per school
 4.3. Level of education                          12+1
 4.4. Trained (TTI)                               78.9%
 4.5. Served for more than 5 years                68.5%
Source: Calculated using data from Institutional Questionnaires




                                                       - 47 -

Feeder Roads

Table 1: ERP Feeder Roads Projects Budget Utilization
Project                       Amount in ERN                              Percentage
 Schools                Contract      Cost/Disbursed       Fund Utilization Completion Status
Feeder Roads
Maiseraw-Quatit*       12,891,433        18,291,330            142.0                100.0
Digsa-Halay-
Derea**                12,098,669          8,392,072            69.0                100.0
Shabah-Girgir          24,709,143        19,476,695             79.0                100.0
Maereba-Tekelabi       08,084,428          9,900,860           122.0                100.0
Source: ERP, Second Quarter Report, 2005
 *Construction of three bridges and two culverts was going on
**A supplementary contract amounting to ERN 4,443,000 was issued on 21, January 2004



 Table 2: Trip Purpose on feeder roads in selected sub-zobas
                          Purpose of travel on feeder road (% of responses)
 Sub-Zoba                     Social                 Market           Health          School
 Tsorona                        36.2                   35.7             20.3            4.6
 Areza                          36.6                   48.6             13.7             -
 Senafe                         28.9                   34.9             22.4           10.2
 Goluj                          33.2                   38.0             26.3             -
 Laelay Gash                    57.1                   25.3             13.9             -
 Mogolo                         33.3                   41.2             19.4             -
 Shambuko                       45.1                   32.4             19.6             -
Source: Community and household Surveys, PMU


SMCP

Table 1: SMCP'S Outreach Expansion with he ERP Intervention (2001-2004)
         Indicators                2000           2001         2002          2003        2004
 Number of village banks             88            146          162           191         207
 Number of clients
            TIER I                 5942          10304       11,492         14700       16487
           TIER II                  245            925         1469          1637        1671
 Portfolio outstanding
 (Millions in Nakfa)
            TIER I                 9.26          17.62        23.03         34.04        35.89
           TIER II                 2.66          14.05        29.96         35.40        34.48
 Deposits (Savings)
 (Millions in Nakfa)
            TIER I                 1.66           2.70          3.87         6.75         -
           TIER II                    -               -            -            -          -
 Percentage of women clients
            TIER I                30.18             37           40         40.51
           TIER II                   29             36           36         38.30        42.60
Source: SMCP records




                                                     - 48 -

Table2: Loan Portfolio Quality
          Indicators              2000      2001        2002      2003     2004
 Repayment Rate                  94.04     96.23       92.50     78.45     79.42
 Reserve Rate                      3.69      0.51        4.02    13.39     15.77
 Portfolio in arrears (over 1
 day)                              6.33     3.37         9.36    26.47     24.34
 Portfolio at Risk (over
 30days)                           5.96     2.71         7.50    21.55     20.58
 Loan Loss Reserve Rate                                  0.13     0.09      0.09
Source: SMCP records


Table 3: Operating and Financial Self-Sufficiency Rates
     Indicators            2000        2001           2002        2003      2004       2005
 Operating self-
 sufficiency             196.99        307.3        200.52        86.67     72.64%   1150.06%

 Financial self-
 sufficiency             115.99        179.6        136.99        76.15     60.28%   1112.32%

 Cost per unit
 of money lent              0.06       0.054         0.052         0.08       0.098    0.072
Source: SMCP records.


Safety Net Program

Table 1: Multiple response utilization of cash transfer by Zoba.
                                 Zoba                            Total
Utilization           Debub            Gash Barka
of fund          No.          %        No.         %          No.      %
  Seeds            26         4.1       14        3.1          40      3.7
  Farm tools        8         1.3       13        2.9          21      1.9
  Food           298         46.6      155       34.4         453     41.6
  Shelter          27         4.2       63       14.0          90      8.3
  Restocking     124         19.4      154       34.1         278     25.5
  Others         156         24.4       52       11.5         208     19.1



Table 2: Multiple response utilization of cash transfer by sex
                               Sex of HH                         Total
Utilization            Male              Female
of fund             No.       %        No.         %          No.      %
 Seeds              23       4.1        17        3.2         40       3.7
 Farm tools         13       2.3         8        1.5         21       1.9
 Food              216      38.8       237       44.5         453     41.6
 Shelter            35       6.3        55       10.3         90       8.3
 Restocking        175      31.4       103       19.3         278     25.5
 Others             95      17.1       113       21.2         208     19.1




                                                   - 49 -

Table 3: Utilization of money from CFW by Zoba
  Utilization                    Zoba                             Total
  of money                  Debub        Gash Barka
  from CFW              No.      %      No.        %           No.     %
  Seeds                  28     7.3      11        4.7          39      6.3
  Farm Tools              7     1.8       1         .4           8      1.3
  Food                  293    76.5     155       66.2         448     72.6
  Shelter                11     2.9      21        9.0          32     5.2
  Restocking              1      .3      30       12.8          31     5.0
  Others                 43    11.2      16        6.8          59     9.6



Table 4: Utilization of money from CFW by Sex
 Utilization                Sex of HH                           Total
of money              Male              Female
from CFW          No.        %        No.         %        No.         %
 Seeds             21       5.6        18        7.4        39         6.3
 Farm Tools          6      1.6         2         .8         8         1.3
 Food             261      69.8       187       77.0       448        72.6
 Shelter           27       7.2         5        2.1        32         5.2
 Restocking        28       7.5         3        1.2        31         5.0
 Others            31       8.3        28       11.5        59         9.6



Table 5: Multiple Response kind of work done for cash for work by sex
                                      Sex of HH                            Total
 Kind of work done -           Male                Female
cash for work              No.        %          No.         %         No.       %
 Planting Trees            155       25.7        146        32.7       301      28.7
 Hillside Terracing        224       37.2        179        40.1       403      38.5
 Build check dams or
other water structures      99       16.4         72        16.1       171      16.3
 Dig community well         16        2.7          5         1.1        21        2.0
 Construction or repair of
roads                       85       14.1         35         7.8       120      11.5
 Other specify              23        3.8          9         2.0        32        3.1



Table 6: Multiple Responses Kind of Work by Zoba
                                        Zoba                              Total
 Kind of work done -               Debub         Gash Barka
 cash for work              No.       %       No.         %          No.        %
 Planting Trees             251     32.3       50        18.4        301       28.7
 Hillside Terracing         315     40.6       88        32.4        403       38.5
 Build check dams or
 other water structures     124     16.0      47         17.3        171       16.3
 Dig community well          15      1.9        6         2.2         21        2.0
 Construction or repair
 of roads                    68      8.8      52         19.1        120       11.5
 Other specify                 3      .4      29         10.7         32        3.1




                                                 - 50 -

Orthopaedic Workshop/Appliances

Table 7: Demand for Orthopaedic Appliances by Type
                                                    Demand for Orthopaedic Appliances
 Type of Injury                                                                           Percentage
                                     Demand          Satisfied       Unsatisfied            Covered
 PARAPLEGIC                              6,000           2,700             3,300               -
 LIMB INJURY                             2,000            900              1,100               -
 LEG AMPUTEE                            24,000         10,800            13,200                -
 PARALYSIS                               8,000           3,600             4,400               -
 TOTAL                                  40,000         18,000            22,000              45%
Source: MLHW records, 2005



 Table 8: Orthopaedic Workshop' Production Capacity
                                                                   Production Capacity
 Type                                                   Theoretical         Attainable        Actual
 PROTHESIS                                                 655                  546            249
 ORTHOSIS                                                  352                  294            110
 STICKS                                                      -                   -             596
 WHEEL CHAIR (maintenance)                                   -                   -             347
 OTHERS (WC)                                                 10                   7               2
Source: MLHW records, 2005



Drug Supply for the Mentally Disabled

Table 9: No of Patients benefits from ERP Drug Supply
                                 Number of Patients                  Length of Stay in Hospital
 Year                      New                     Repeat                       (Days)
 2001                      2577                    28754                        68105
 2002                      2657                    33468                        54235
 2003                      2097                    34398                        44021
 2004                      2730                    39396                        46738
 2005                      2805                    37860                        49331
Source: St. Mary Psychiatric Hospital



            II. Results From Impact Assessment of Private Sector Reconstruction Program



A.       Background of the Assessment


This report presents the results of an impact assessment of the Private Sector Reconstruction (PSR)
Component of the Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP). The objective of the PSR was to
jumpstart the private sector in Eritrea, especially the formal private sector, by providing support and debt
relief to enterprises that were adversely affected by the conflict with Ethiopia, and by making foreign
exchange, which has been particularly scarce, available through the banking system.




                                                     - 51 -

The PSR includes three sub-components*:

    1. Loan Fund: Special loan fund of US$ 34.2 million to provide participating financial institutions
         (PFIs) with foreign exchange and term financing to extend medium and long-term loans to their
         private sector clients for productive purposes.
    2. Support for Affected Enterprises (SAE): A loan of US$ 9.5 million to PFIs to provide debt relief
         to borrowers adversely affected by the war with Ethiopia.
    3. Technical Assistance: A loan of US $2.0 million to strengthen the administrative and operational
         capacity of the PFIs through the recruitment and deployment of technical advisors.
_________________________
*Because the details of PSR are well-known to the principal stakeholders and are described in detail in the Project
Implementation Document, they are described in this report only to the extent they are required to provide context to
the analysis.



The status of the PSR as of December 31, 2005 is shown in Table 1.

The activities and analyses carried out in connection with the present study address the following three
questions:

    1. How well was the PSR managed?
    2. What was the impact of the PSR on private sector activity?
    3. What was the impact of the PSR on the banking system?

To assess the impact of the PSR, evaluators attempted to identify incremental changes associated with the
project among Loan Fund beneficiaries (sub-borrowers), SAE beneficiaries, and the PFIs over and above
what would have happened without the PSR.

The activities carried out during the course of the impact assessment included the following:

    · Discussions with the Ministry of National Development, the World Bank Country Office and
         Italian Cooperation.
    · Key informants interviews with the Project Monitoring Unit of the ERP (PMU-ERP), the Bank of
         Eritrea, and the three PFIs: Commercial Bank of Eritrea (CBE), Housing and Commerce Bank
         (HCB), and Eritrean Development and Investment Bank (EDIB).
    · Quantitative surveys of 45 sub-borrowers and 38 SAE beneficiaries, the later supplemented by
         PFI records for 97 SAE beneficiaries.
    · Eleven case studies of loan fund beneficiaries.
    · One focus group discussion with Loan Fund beneficiaries.
    · Two case studies of SAE beneficiaries.
    · Two focus group discussion with SAE beneficiaries.

In light of resource and time constraints, stakeholders agreed at the inception of the impact assessment not
to create control groups comparable to Loan Fund and SAE beneficiaries. The absence of control groups
means that the assessment is unable to make a definitive claim that observed outcomes are attributable to
the PSR. All results reported here, therefore, should be interpreted as suggestive of impact rather than as
"proof" of impact.

The persons responsible for conducting the PSR impact assessment consisted of an international
consultant, a national consultant, the PMU-ERP, and team of national enumerators. The international



                                                     - 52 -

consultant, national consultant, and PMU-ERP collaborated on the study design. The Loan Fund and
SAE surveys were administered by the PMU-ERP with the assistance of the national consultant and in
consultation with the international consultant. The PMU-ERP was responsible for pilot-testing the
surveys, quality control and monitoring of survey enumeration, data entry, and data cleaning. The
consultants performed the data analysis and wrote the final report.

It is important to note at the outset of this report that the PSR was designed in the immediate aftermath of
the third armed conflict with Ethiopia based on the then reasonable assumption of a return to normalcy, as
characterized by a rapid demobilization of those under arms, a reallocation of public and private resources
from national defense to the private sector and other development programs, and a resurgence of private
sector and export activity. Unfortunately, none of these assumptions proved accurate in light of the on-
going "no war-no peace" status. These risks were anticipated in the Project Implementation Plan but
were deemed acceptable in light of the situation. The failure of the assumptions to hold in practice is not
considered the fault of policy planners but rather a result of the risks inherent in the design of policies
under conditions of uncertainty.

Taking into account the assessment findings and the environment in which the PSR was implemented,
this report also catalogues key lessons learned and appropriate suggestions for future projects of a similar
nature.

B. Main Findings and Recommendations

The PSR was implemented in the wake of the Eritrean-Ethiopian war in an effort to provide relief for
enterprises adversely affected by the war and to boost private sector activity by expanding access to
foreign exchange. The PSR was unique in a couple of important ways. First, it was designed and
implemented quickly in the immediate aftermath of a major armed conflict in a highly fluid environment.
Second, it represents perhaps the first time that development agencies have, in essence, paid off of a
major share of private sector debt in a country. These two factors practically guaranteed that the project
would operate on a steep learning curve.

It merits restating that the project was designed assuming a reasonably swift return to normalcy. In this
context, the PSR was intended to prime the pump for the anticipated expansion in private sector activity.
Unfortunately, this assumption did not prove accurate. While the design of the PSR might have been
appropriate for an expanding private sector, it was probably less appropriate for a struggling private
sector.

C. Summary of Assessment Findings

Notwithstanding the failure of the project assumptions to hold true, the findings presented in this report
suggest that the PSR did have some positive impacts on private sector activity. A summary of the
assessment findings follows below.

PSR Management:

     · The PSR was well-managed at all levels of responsibility.
     · Problems that did arise during implementation of the PSR did not exceed those that might
        normally be expected in a project of this scope and were less than those that might be expected in
        a project planned and implemented as quickly as the PSR.




                                                      - 53 -

Loan Fund:

    · Participation in the Loan Fund has led to an increase in bank lending.
    · Participation in the Loan Fund has led to an increase in the availability of foreign exchange in the
        banking system.
    · Participation in the Loan Fund has led to an increase in sub-borrowers' access to foreign
        exchange.
    · Participation in the Loan Fund has led to an improvement in sub-borrowers' financial
        performance, as measured by sales, profits, and employment. Improved firm performance
        appears to be primarily a result of investment in machinery and equipment that has increased the
        firms' long-term growth trajectory. In contrast, participation in the Loan Fund does not appear to
        have led to an increase in sub-borrowers' exports.
    · Participation in the Loan Fund appears to have led to an increase in sub-borrowers' linkages with
        local firms, as measured by increased sales to and purchases from local firms.
    · Participation in the Loan Fund has led to a positive albeit small improvement PFIs' financial
        performance, as measured by revenue and profits.
    · Participation in the Loan Fund has led to an improvement in the PFIs' compliance with prudential
        supervisory standard. This occurred via increased profits at all three PFIs and a direct infusion
        into the capital accounts at the CBE and EDIB. The overall impact on bank performance was
        small at the CBE and HCB and large at the EDIB.
SAE:
    · Participation in the SAE appears to have led to a small to moderate increase in beneficiaries'
        survival rates.
    · Participation in the SAE appears not to have led to an improvement in beneficiaries' financial
        performance, although it does appear to be associated with higher sales and profits in certain
        cases.
    · Participation in the SAE appears to have led to an increased demand for bank lending among
        beneficiaries, including those firms most affected by the war.

Technical Assistance:

    · The technical assistance sub-component appears to have had small to moderate impact on the
        PFIs' operations and performance.

D.      Broader Lessons Learned

The unique context of the PSR raises broader issues of interest for development policy beyond the
immediate impacts of the PSR. This report concludes, therefore, with a discussion of broader lessons
learned.

The PSR was not designed as a long-term development project. Its goal was not sustainable
development, per se, but to prime the pump for an anticipated private sector expansion. Consistent with
this objective, the Loan Fund and SAE were a one time shot in the arm. Notwithstanding, the Project
Implementation Plan stated that lending under the Loan Fund should prioritize firms that had the potential
to earn or save foreign exchange. This provision, however, was not monitored or implemented. The PFIs
did not prioritize export-oriented firms. Sub-borrowers in turn appear to have generated very little
additional foreign exchange. With moderate additional effort, the Loan Fund might have been structured
to generate more sustainable impacts. As it is, many of the firms that benefited from the Loan Fund now
find themselves in similar straits as before, not to mention the numerous firms that were not able to access



                                                     - 54 -

foreign exchange from the Loan Fund. In general, building sustainability into project design is important,
even for rapid response or pump priming projects such as the PSR.
It is the consultants' conclusion that the Loan Fund and SAE fell well short of meeting the needs of the
Eritrean private sector. This outcome no doubt stems in part from the nature and purpose of the project as
already described (e.g., it was not intended to solve the problems of the private sector but to help
jumpstart an expected surge in private sector activity). Nonetheless, the project was launched quickly
before any initial needs/market assessment could be conducted. It is possible that a needs/market
assessment might have revealed information about intended beneficiaries and the environment that would
have altered the project's scope, size, or design. As it were, the project was launched quickly based on a
set of assumptions that appear not to have been critically examined. In general, it is advisable to conduct
appropriate "due diligence" prior to project design and launch. If time is an issue, as it apparently was in
this case, a rapid assessment can still be an effective means to generate information useful for project
design.

The failure to conduct any pre-launch market/needs assessment also meant that the PSR did not have a
baseline of any kind with which to monitor project effectiveness. The existence of a baseline and a
corresponding monitoring system might have allowed project managers to make mid-stream corrections
once project assumptions had proven invalid. In general, it is important to establish a monitoring system
with baseline information prior to project launch, both to allow monitoring of project effectiveness and to
allow project managers to make necessary adjustments to keep the project on track.

Post-conflict environments are generally characterized by uncertainty and fluidity. Despite this, the PSR
did not build any flexibility into its aims or design. Once the original assumptions had proven untenable,
the project was committed to a course it could not (or did not) alter notwithstanding it was a course the
practically guaranteed a sub-optimal outcome. In general, the sooner one goes in after a conflict, the
greater the uncertainty and fluidity and thus the greater the need to build flexibility into project aims and
design.

The outcome of the TA component raises a couple of issues. One issue is whether technical assistance is
even appropriate in emergency situations. Presumably, an objective of technical assistance is the long-
term transference of knowledge and skills. This process involves not only recruitment and delivery of
technical assistance but also, to be effective, the institutionalization of knowledge and skills.
Institutionalization implies the integration of the knowledge and skills into organizational activities and
values. Institutionalization of knowledge and skills is perhaps the most difficult part of this process. It
requires planning, time, and a coordinated effort. The issue of institutionalization does not appear to have
received explicit consideration in the PSR. A short project time frame is probably not appropriate to
accomplish all of this.

A second issue raised by the TA component is that of project sequencing. The TA component was
intended to assist with the implementation of the other PSR components. Aside from whether the TA
component was appropriate in the first place, launching it at the same time as the other PSR components
was probably inappropriate, for reasons discussed above. If project components are based on successful
completion of other components, they should ideally be launched in sequential order. This does not mean
they cannot overlap to a degree, but launching sequential components at the same time assumes a risk that
could easily be avoided.

The failure of the joint MIS raised similar sequencing issues. Although the joint MIS was not part of the
PSR, its importance to the TA component could reasonably have been anticipated before hand. In
general, when components are based on successful completion of other components, it is a good idea to
introduce some element of sequencing in the project, or at lest to build a fall-back plan should one link in
the sequencing chain break.


                                                     - 55 -

Table 1: Status of PSR as of December 31, 2005
                                              Reallocated to                Disbursement
  Sub-component             Total Budget        Loan Fund                                                   No.
                                 (US$)              (US$)               US$              ERN            Enterprises*
  SAE                       10,000,000          (471,785)             9,528,215       126,514,171          1,647 *
  CBE                                                                 9,245,101       122,708,019          1,606
  HCBE                                                                 224,034          3,035,658             34
  EDIB                                                                   59,080           770,493              7
  Loan Fund                 28,000,000          5,704,113           34,219,855        437,934,279            205
  CBE                                                               19,364,406        232,064,571            102
  HCBE                                                                8,249,365       113,686,824             45
  EDIB                                                                6,606,083        92,182,883             58
  Technical Assistance       2,000,000            (43,957)            1,956,043
  CBE                                                                 1,744,860
  HCBE                                                                 172,183
  EDIB                                                                   39,000
  Total                     40,000,000           6,219855           45,704,113        564,448,449           1,852
* Among the firms benefiting from the SAE, 1,243 were selected for 100% debt write-off (Category 1), 110 for an
average 75% write-off (Category II), and 294 for interest rate relief averaging 9% per annum over three years
(Category III).



Table 2: Summary of Lending Activity under the Loan Fund
 Loans                            CBE               HCB                EDIB
 New Loans
 New Loans                                23               16                   32
 New Loans (US$)                  9,711,923        7,349,856            6,021,682
 Nakfa Loans (ERN)             133,296,917      104,511,824            86,221,991
 Retroactive Loans
 Retroactive Loans                        79               29                   26
 Retroactive Loans (US$)          9,652,483          899,510              584,401
 Retroactive Loans (ERN)        98,767,654         9,175,000            5,960,892
 TOTAL LOAN FUND
 Total Loans                            103                45                   58
 Total Loans (US$)              19,364,406         8,249,365            6,606,083
 Total Loans (ERN)             232,064,571      113,686,824            92,182,883
The number of sub- borrowers under the Loan Fund equaled 23 at the CBE, 9 at the
HBC, and 31 at the EDIB for a total of 63. The difference between the number of
loans and the number of sub-borrowers is accounted for by a handful of
sub-borrowers who received more than one loan.




                                                      - 56 -

 Table 3: Summary of Activity under the SAE
                                    Credit                           Written
 Category            Number         Received        Settled*            Off            Frozen
 CBE
 I                      1,037       76,858,718       19,635,269      32,443,307      22,116,537
 II                       108       14,054,380        4,205,692        9,685,852          0
 III                      263       31,794,921        2,130,894      29,533,600           0
 Total                  1,606      122,708,019       25,971,856      71,662,759      22,116,537
 HCB
 I                          3        2,653,071           0             2,653,071          0
 II                                    0                 0                                0
 III                       31          382,587           0               382,587          0
 Total                     34        3,035,658           0             3,035,658          0
 EIDB
 I                          5          649,390           0               649,389          0
 II                         2          121,104           0               121,103          0
 III                                   0                 0                                0
 Total                      7          770,493           0               770,493          0
 Grand Total            1,647      126,514,170       25,971,856      75,468,910      22,116,537
* Refers to partial settlement of some of the corresponding credits only; that accounts for the
  difference between the total and the sum of the other three columns.


 Table 4: Sources of Foreign Exchange
                                No.         Mean (%)                            No.        Mean (%)
 Exports                                                    Remittances
 1997                           23               2.8            1997             23            0.0
 2001                           35               0.0            2001             35            1.5
 2004                           40               0.0            2004             40            3.4
 2005                           34               0.0            2005             34            2.2
 Banks                                                         Other
 1997                           23             42.4             1997             23            30.1
 2001                           35             26.3             2001             35            65.4
 2004                           40             51.4             2004             40            32.2
 2005                           34             58.7             2005             34            27.1
 Own
 1997                           23             26.5
 2001                           35              8.0
 2004                           40             12.9
 2005                           34             12.5


 Table 5: Foreign Exchange Needed and Acquired (Constant US$)*
                                    Forex Needed                             Forex Acquired            Forex Gap
             Year       No.                                 No.                                    Mean      Median
                                   Mean        Median                     Mean       Median         Gap        Gap
 Forex
 Needs       1997        20    1,421,220       450,000     17        1,301,447       557,674      (119,773)   107,674
             2001        36    1,048,510       394,724     29          728,396       139,314      (320,114)   (255,410)
             2004        43    1,261,144       562,466     39          744,595       281,233      (516,549)   (281,233)
             2005        41    1,370,840       776,770      31         670,681       195,019      (700,159)   (581,751)
* Nominal values are converted into constant values using the US GDP deflator.


                                                        - 57 -

 Table 6: Marginal Impact of Loan Fund on Firm Performance (ERN)
                              Number           Mean           Median Difference
                                             Difference
 Sales                            39       42,887,446                 6,737,345
 Profit                           41       11,935,651                   697,836
 Employees                        40               112                        55
 Female Employees                 39                32                        20
 Exports                            0               na                        na
 Forex Earnings                     1          -99,149                  -99,149
 Forex Savings                    25         1,042,801                  239,054
 Purchases of Local Inputs        14           537,901                  327,849
 Sales to Local Firms               6      11,345,805                 7,970,917




 Table 7: Use of Loan
                             CBE       HBC        EDIB        Total     %
 Machinery                      10         1         24          35      55.6
 Machinery/Raw Materials         4         2           4         10      15.9
 Machinery/Spare Parts           1         3           0          4       6.3
 Raw Materials                   6         1           1          8      12.7
 Spare Parts                     0         2           0          2       3.2
 Equipment                       1         0           1          2       3.2
 Vehicle                         0         0           1          1       1.6
 Cargo Ship                      1         0           0          1       1.6
 Total                          23         9         31          63     100.0




Table 8: Firm Performance among SAE Beneficiaries Before and After the War (Constant ERN)*
                        No.       Mean        Median                             No.  Mean   Median
    Sales                                                   Fixed Investment
  1997                  17      629,448        540,000             1997          18  531,355  170,000
  2001                  16      233,043         80,215             2001          18  546,435  137,869
  2005                  16      185,705         46,568             2005          19  397,306   84,209
  Profit                                                    Employees
  1997                  17      209,392        130,950            1997           16      8.8      6.5
  2001                  16        27,675        23,814            2001           15      8.2      5.0
  2005                  16        15,424         7,058         2005              14      8.5      4.0
  Working Capital                                           Female Employees
  1997                  17      322,938        242,825             1997           9      4.3      1.1
  2001                  15      196,143         52,641             2001          10      3.8      2.5
  2005                  16      125,572         23,201             2005          10      4.1      3.5
* Nominal values are converted into constant values using the US GDP deflator.




                                                      - 58 -

Table 9: Comparison of Business Performance between SAE
          Beneficiaries Taking New Loans and SAE Beneficiaries
          Not Taking New Loans (ERN)
 Performance                   New Loan         No New Loan
 Indicator                        (No.)             (No.)
 Sales                        828,540           43,490
                                   (5)             (11)
 Profits                       64,613           38,036
                                   (5)             (11)
 Working Capital              323,707           401,621
                                   (5)             (11)
 Fixed Investment             557,871          1,564,855
                                   (7)              (12)
 Employees                         5.0              10.4
                                   (5)               (9)
 Female Employees                  3.0               4.6
                                   (3)               (7)




Table 10: Incremental Impact of the Loan Fund on Bank Performance
 Performance                  CBE          HCB      EDIB
 Measure
 Interest Revenue (ERN) 28,093,919       11,039,47   8,991,079
                                                 8
 Profits (ERN)              7,023,479    2,659,468   2,079,911
 Employment                         0            0           0




Table 11: Direct Infusions in Capital Resulting from Participation in the PSR
           (ERN)
 Source of Direct Infusion                     CBE       HCB       EDIB
 Increase in Capital from 25% Loan Rebate   58,016,143       0     23,045,771




Table 12: Impact of the PSR on Bank Capital
 Source                             CBE          HCB       EDIB
 Total Capital (ERN)              870,666,43   240,500,00   68,568,590
                                          1             0
 Direct Infusion Loan Fund              6.7           0.0         34.7
 (%)
 Increased Profits (%)                  0.8           1.1          3.1
 Total                                  7.5           1.1         33.6




                                                  - 59 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results


                                  Stakeholder Workshop Results
                       Summary of Proceeding of Stakeholders Workshop


1.0 Introduction

A stakeholders' workshop on the Outcome Impact Assessment study of the Emergency
Reconstruction Program (ERP) was conducted on May 29-31, 2006. The purpose of the workshop
was to bring together all program stakeholders, especially the primary stakeholders, to share
experiences about ERP and its implementation. The Specific objectives of the workshop were:

    To discuss the findings of the Outcome Impact Assessment Study,
    To obtain the perspectives of stakeholders, and
    To catalogue lessons learnt and appropriate suggestions for future exercises.

The Minister of National Development, Dr Woldai Futur, opened the workshop. In his opening
remarks, the Minister underscored the importance of drawing relevant lessons for future development
exercises. The Italian ambassador, H.E. Mr. Emanuele Pignatelli, and the World Bank country office
manager, Mr. Florian Fichtl, also addressed the workshop participants.

In conducting the workshop, two separate workshops were organized: one for agriculture,
infrastructure and social protection (May 29-30, 2006) and the other for the private sector
reconstruction (May 31, 2006).

The workshop deliberated on the following themes: (i) project design, (ii) project performance, (iii)
challenges and successes, (iv) sustainability, and (v) capacity building.

The workshop was attended by over 130 participants representing primary stakeholders (34), zobas
(25) implementing agencies (32), development partners, NGOs, UN agencies, University of Asmara,
contractors and supervisors. Over 30.0% of the beneficiary participants were women. Presentations
and discussions were largely held in Tigrigna.

The plenary sessions were used to present the findings of the Outcome Impact Assessment Study and
the results of discussion groups. Following a comprehensive overview of the ERP presented by Ato
Gebremicael Menghistu, PMU General Manager, the four consultants presented their key findings,
conclusions and recommendations in covering: (i) Research Methodology, (ii) Agriculture, (iii)
Education and Roads, and (iv) Energy, Savings and Micro Credit Program (SMCP), Housing and
Social Safety Nets.

Before the workshop split into discussion groups, plenary presentations were discussed, and
participants raised questions, provided their feedback and shared their experiences. This was then
followed by the formation of three discussion groups in the areas of (a) sustainable livelihood
(agriculture, SMCP and cash transfer), (b) infrastructure (roads and energy), and (c) social protection
(education, feeder roads, water, housing and orthopedic workshop).

On May 30, 2006, the chairpersons and session rapporteurs presented the highlights of the discussions
in their respective groups to the plenary session, following which participants asked questions and
gave their feedback.



                                               - 60 -

On May 31, 2006, the workshop discussed private sector reconstruction. Over 55 participants took
part in this workshop of which 38 were beneficiaries. Following the presentation by the consultant,
the participants raised questions and gave their perspectives.

Overall, the workshop stimulated broad participation and lively discussions. It provided a forum for
frank sharing of experiences and was productive. In what follows the highlights of the deliberations
under the different themes are presented.

2.0 Program Design

Under this theme, workshop participants discussed the weaknesses and strengths in the design of
program components and sub-components. The emphasis was in identifying design flaws. Major
design weaknesses identified are discussed below.

The inadequacy of the program's monitoring and evaluation system was one of the major design
flaws the workshop discussed extensively. The workshop pointed out that the program did not have
an efficient and systematic monitoring and evaluation system put in place from the outset. No
baseline data was collected before the launching of the program. Still worse, the program did not have
well defined socio-economic performance targets and indicators. The absence of baseline data and the
inadequacy of performance indicators made program outcome impact assessment difficult.

The design of some program components and sub-components was not participatory in its approach.
This was especially true in the case of the agricultural component and the school projects. With
respect to school projects, beneficiaries did not participate in project planning, site selection and
implementation. In the case of the agriculture component, the agriculture people at the zoba level did
not participate in the design of the agricultural interventions. The non-participatory approach
adversely affected program implementation. In the case of agriculture, for example, the people on
the ground did not have in-depth knowledge/understanding of the activities/ interventions with all its
attendant consequences during implementation.

Another design weakness mentioned was in the area of implementation modality. The proposed
program implementation arrangement did not have organizational structure at the zoba level.
Participants strongly urged the need for ERP-like programs to have presence at the zoba level. They
pointed out that the presence at the zoba level could have improved program implementation,
coordination, recordkeeping and reporting.

Another point raised in the workshop was the need to review program design. Participants were of the
opinion that reviewing program design was possible to reflect the realities on the ground. However,
with the exception of the roads sector sub-component, no design modification was made in the course
of program implementation. The roads sector sub-component had undertaken priority review in light
of funding shortfall and the need to upgrade projects.

In assessing the implementation of the design flaws in the program, the workshop concluded that the
weaknesses contributed to delays in implementation of projects. As a result, the program faced cost
over-runs with inflation over time. This was especially true with projects involving civil works.




                                                - 61 -

3.0 Program Performance

In relation to program performance, the workshop made the following observations:

There was consensus among the workshop participants that program's immediate objectives were
accomplished. Participants underlined that inputs and services provided had assisted target
populations to re-establish themselves and to have access to social services during the transition
period. The participants, especially the primary stakeholders, expressed their heartfelt satisfaction
with the benefits they derived from the various program interventions. They were very much
appreciative of the inputs and services provided.

Regarding SMCP, it was reported that the program had enabled returning IDPs to resume economic
activities within a short time-span of their return to their home villages. Views expressed with respect
to poultry and tractor services were also similar. Participants stated that the poultry intervention had
helped benefiting HHs to eke-out a living over a short period of time and to improve their nutritional
status. The provision of tractor services had helped the target population to overcome the critical
shortage of draft animals and manpower prevailing in the aftermath of the third invasion.

In the workshop, special mention was made of program benefits that accrued to female-headed
households. The participants expressed their views that the majority of the program interventions
were highly successful in benefiting women.

One of the program's successes mentioned by workshop participants was the timely implementation
of most program projects. This was in spite of the difficult circumstances the program was
implemented under. This is best illustrated by the fact that all elementary and junior secondary school
projects were completed on time and as per their specific implementation schedules. The timely
completion of projects, under the difficult circumstances, was attributed to the close supervision and
good coordination among all stakeholders, i.e., ERP management, implementing agencies, zoba
administrations, consultants and contractors.

Commenting on the feeder roads, the workshop acknowledged that the feeder roads built were of high
quality and standard.

4.0 Successes and Challenges

The workshop stated that the challenges stemmed from the prevailing "no war, no peace" impasse,
the macro-economic imbalances and the resulting consequences (inflation and shortages of
construction materials, manpower, fuel, etc.) and the prolonged drought situation. Major challenges
identified include:

    Cost escalation due to the inflationary situation,
    shortages and high prices of inputs, e.g., poultry feed, fertilizer, etc.,
    shortages of construction materials, fuel, spare parts, machinery and equipment, tractors,
    contractors,
    shortages of skilled and unskilled manpower,
    lack of enabling environment, especially with respect to the informal sector,
    lack of performance targets and indicators,
    inadequacy of human capacity.

In spite of the challenges, it was assessed that overall program implementation was successful and
that it was implemented in a transparent way, as attested to by the Minister of National Development


                                                - 62 -

and the development partners. It was pointed out that in relation to other projects, the ERP was
implemented within a reasonable time-frame.

With the exception of the Afabet-Felket-Naro road project, it was pointed out that all initiated
program interventions had been successfully executed as planned.

Innovative measures taken and flexibility demonstrated in addressing challenges were mentioned as
one of the hallmarks of program implementation. The emergency water supply projects were
mentioned as cases in point. When the JICA feasibility studies conducted earlier failed to produce the
expected results, the decision was made to carry out rapid assessment in the three towns to facilitate
implementation.

5.0 Sustainability

In relation to sustainability, workshop participants felt that in many cases the issue does not seem to
have been properly addressed in the project design. They stressed there was a need to factor it in
sustainability, and concerns were raised and recommendations made regarding the following program
interventions.

5.1   Poultry: So far, the country's poultry activity heavily depended on the importation of day old
      chicks (DOCs). Obviously, the country cannot afford to develop its poultry industry by
      importing DOCs on a continuous basis. To make it sustainable in the future, therefore,
      workshop participants proposed the need to develop a different strategy for poultry activity.

5.2   Irrigated Agriculture: That the future of Eritrean agriculture lies in irrigated agriculture was
      emphasized. Regarding its sustainability, it was pointed out that irrigated agriculture is
      productive and sustainable provided inputs are made available at fair prices.

5.3   Water schemes: To ensure the sustainability of the three emergency water supply projects, the
      need to address the maintenance and operations issues was underlined.

5.4   Feeder roads: In the discussion group, it was mentioned that it would be advisable to set up
      maintenance crews at zoba /subzoba level to ensure the sustainability of the feeder roads.

5.5   Orthopedic workshop: The workshop was unanimous in its view that the orthopedic workshop
      is not and cannot be sustainable the way it is presently managed and operated. It was pointed
      out that the workshop is presently operating under capacity for lack of raw materials. At the
      present time, there is no cost recovery and services are provided free of charge. On cost
      recovery, there were two viewpoints: while the beneficiaries insisted that the workshop should
      continue to provide services free of charge, the others were of the opinion that beneficiaries that
      can afford should be made to pay.

6.0 Capacity Building

In relation to capacity building, workshop participants recognized the fact that overall, the program
had made significant contribution in terms of institutional and human capacity building. However, in
some areas its contribution was found to be wanting.

With respect to agriculture, it was stated that the capacity building support provided was not
adequate. It was stressed that more could have been done to strengthen institutional and human
capacity building in the sector.


                                                 - 63 -

At the zoba level, the need for capacity building at all levels was underscored. Poultry farming was
mentioned to illustrate this point. It was pointed out that limited knowledge about poultry farming
was one of the challenges that faced the poultry intervention.

On the positive note, participants discussed the contribution the infrastructure and other projects
involving civil works had made in terms of capacity building. The capacity building support provided
by the program to the roads sector sub-component was very much appreciated. It was mentioned that
the technical assistance provided not only enabled the Infrastructure Department of the MOPW to
manage efficiently contract administration, but it also enabled it to accomplish effectively other major
construction works at the national level. Besides, mention was made of the invaluable work
experiences gained in the process of the constructing the main roads and the energy projects and the
installation of the bailey bridges. The people who participated in the construction of the projects
acquired marketable skills in different areas.

With respect to SMCP, mention was made that the organization has been and continues to provide
training in different areas to its employees by employing local and international consultants.

7.0 Lessons Learned and Recommendations

          Key lessons learned and recommendations made include:

7.1    Support programs / interventions should not be prescribed. They should be based on needs
       assessments, i.e., they should be in response to felt needs of target population and be area
       specific. The distribution of day old chicks in Guluj area was mentioned as a case in point.
       Supplying households with DOCs, for example, when they have expressed preference for
       donkey driven carts was found to be inappropriate.

7.2    The need to revisit the appropriateness of providing agricultural loans under the SMCP was
       emphasized. The low rate of repayment of agricultural loans, the diverse characteristics of the
       demand for agricultural loans and the high level of risks involved in agricultural financing
       warrant the need to review agricultural loans. The review should consider inter alia, the loan
       size, the repayment period and interest rate.

7.3    One key finding of the workshop was that joint-group liability is discouraging potential clients
       from participating in the SMCP. Under the present arrangement, the joint-group liability is
       based on the trust among group members. If one group member fails to repay, the group as a
       whole will not be able to access the facility again. In the light of this, the workshop
       recommended that in lieu of the joint-group liability, family-based collateral be introduced.

7.4    Regarding distribution of inputs (seeds, fertilizers, etc.,) and benefits (cash transfer), the need to
       have clarity and uniformity of guidelines was underlined. It should clearly be stated whether or
       not inputs/benefits are to be distributed free, or are to be distributed on credit/sale. It is also
       important that directives are strictly adhered to. Otherwise, lack of clarity and uniformity will
       not only be a source of confusion and complaints, but it will make control and accountability
       difficult, if not impossible.

7.5    The need to review the present poultry strategy was emphasized. Although the intervention was
       successful in achieving its immediate objective, it was pointed out that in its present design it
       cannot be sustainable.



                                                 - 64 -

7.6  It was the general feeling of participants that not only did SMCP help women to engage in
     income generating activities, but it also helped them to promote their confidence in business
     undertakings.

7.7  The need to provide insurance coverage for properties (SMCP loans, motor pumps, etc) was
     stressed. It was pointed out that at present there is only insurance for life; but no insurance
     coverage for properties or micro-loans. The importance of insurance as a strategy to address
     challenges/risks was underscored.

7.8  Under the prevailing inflationary situation in the country and the low loan turnover, the present
     loan size for Tier I clients was assessed not to be sufficient to undertake meaningful
     investments. The need to increase the loan size was found to be indisputable. However, the
     workshop recommended the size of the threshold be decided after a proper study.

7.9  The need to foster an environment conducive to the expansion of financial services that cater
     for the informal sector was recognized. The need was stressed, for issuing business licenses to
     people engaged in the informal sector, providing market outlets for their products and services,
     allowing free movement of goods and services, etc.

7.10 The need to put in place an efficient and systematic M&E system, to collect baseline data, and
     to have performance targets and indicators from the outset was emphasized. They were found
     to be of paramount importance for conducting outcome impact assessment. This
     recommendation stemmed from the fact that ERP did not have efficient M&E system, baseline
     data, outcome indicators, etc., at the time it was launched.

7.11 The need to make design modifications in the course of implementation to reflect the realities
     on the ground was strongly urged. It was pointed out that this is more applicable for emergency
     projects that are usually prepared on a fast track. In connection with this, to the extent possible,
     rapid assessments should be made. Such measures, it was pointed out, help to avoid
     unnecessary risks and delays in implementation that would result in cost escalation.

7.12 The need to have a participatory approach in all phases of the project cycle was underscored. A
     participatory approach would assist in ensuring sustainability of the undertaking, to minimize
     risks, to ensure that the activity coforms to the felt-needs of beneficiaries, and to promote
     cooperation among stakeholders in project implementation, etc.

7.13 ERP did not have any presence at the zoba level. As a result, record-keeping and reporting of
     program implementation/performance was not up to standard. Hence, there is the need to have
     representatives/personnel at the zoba level was underscored.

7.14 The need for institutional and human capacity building at all levels, especially at the regional
     level was underlined.

7.15 It was recommended that efforts be made to ensure the supply of critical inputs, such as
     fertilizer, on a continuous basis.

7.16 In connection with Adi Nala Junior Secondary School (JSS), mention was made of the need to
     make timely preparations/arrangements to ensure effective utilization of program
     products/services. Shortage of teachers did not permit the proper utilization of Adi Nala JSS.




                                               - 65 -

 7.17 In projects, the pay to civil servants seconded to them is much lower than that made to
      contracted employees. Such disparities in remuneration adversely affect employee morale;
      hence the workshop emphasized the need to eliminate the differences.


                              Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP)
                               Private Sector Reconstruction Component
                           Workshop on Outcome Impact Assessment Study

                                               Proceedings

1     Venue           National Confederation of Eritrean Workers Hall
2     Date            Wednesday May 31, 2006
3      Time           8:30 -12:15
4      Program         Registration
                       Opening Address by PMU/ERP General Manager
                       Impact Assessment Study Presentation by National Consultant
                       Coffee Break
                       Plenary Discussion
                      Closing Remarks
5      Moderator     Ato Mehreteab Hagos, National Consultant
6      Participants    - PMU/ERP Management and staff
                       - World Bank Country Manager and staff
                       - Bank of Eritrea, PSR Unit Head
                      - Credit Department Heads of Participating Financial Institutions i.e.,
                          Commercial Bank of Eritrea, Housing and Commerce Bank, Investment
                          and Development Bank
                      - Beneficiaries (Loan Fund and SAE Sub-borrowers)
7      Opening         The meeting was opened by Ato Gebremicael Mengistu, General Manager of
                      PMU/ERP.

                       Following his welcome address, the General Manager highlighted :
                       - the overall and specific Objectives of ERP
                       - the development partners of the program
                       - its major components
                       - the activities undertaken under each component, and
                      - the lessons learnt from the Program.
8      Study           The PSR component's outcome impact assessment study was presented by the
      presentation     National Consultant with emphasis on:
                       - the scope of the program
                       - the methodology followed in conducting the outcome impact assessment, and
                       - the findings of the study with regard to :
                            a) the management of the program,
                            b) the impact of the program on :
                                (i) the participating financial institutions and
                                (ii) the private sector beneficiaries, i.e. Loan Fund and SAE Sub
                                     borrowers
                            c) the lessons learnt for the future.




                                                 - 66 -

9   Discussion The major questions raised and comments discussed included the following:

               · Why are the Banks not willing or ready to accept the early settlement of
                   the Foreign exchange loan in Nakfa?
                   The loan was not meant for facilitating the sale (quick sale) of foreign
                   exchange; but rather for use as a source of credit. Housing and Commerce
                   Bank is accepting the immediate settlement of loan taken up to 25%.
               · Is the loan fund facility going to continue as a source of additional credit
                   by sub-borrowers?
                   As such, the facility has come to a close. There could be, however, alternative
                   ways for meeting the requests of the Banks' clients.
               · Could it have been better to allot the Fund earmarked for Technical
                   Assistance in favor of the Private Sector?
                   The program was launched with the clear understanding that it would need to
                   be properly executed. To that end an allotment for Technical Assistance to the
                   Banks for the proper execution of the program was found important.
               · Don't you think that had the evaluation been carried out earlier on, a
                   better outcome would have been achieved?
                   The evaluation has been carried at the proper timing set for it. However, this
                   does not mean that it was not being monitored all the way through.
               · How do we reconcile the statements that the program had a positive
                   impact on the beneficiaries and yet not to the extent of their requirement?
                   It is simply meant to qualify better that the impact would need to be
                   sustainable.
               · Would it not be fair for the Banks to review (lower) the interest they are
                   charging in the light of the soft nature of the loan under consideration?
                   The margin between what the Banks are paying for the loan they are obtaining
                   and what they charge to their clients is not that excessive when all the all the
                   operating costs involved are taken into account. The interest charged by the
                   banks is based on studies that take into account many factors into
                   consideration, including the on-going inflation rate. The interest charged by
                   the banks should not be the major criterion for obtaining a loan; the financial
                   internal return of the project should be the major criterion.
               · Eritrea being a poor country, can't this loan (debt) from the World Bank
                   be cancelled?
                   The question would need to be addressed in a wider context.
10  Closing    The World Bank Country Manager, Dr. Florian Fitchl
               -praised the overall management of the ERP
               -appreciated the positive impact of the PSR program on the private sector, and
               -stressed the need for a strong public-private sector partnership.

               The Moderator summarized the deliberations of the workshop and thanked all the
               participants for their active participation.

               The workshop was closed with final words of appreciation by the General Manager of
               PMU/ERP.




                                          - 67 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

                           Implementation Completion Report
                                         ERITREA
                          Emergency Reconstruction Program

1.      Introduction: The Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP) was prepared in 2000, in
the aftermath of Ethiopian's third offensive. The war, especially the third invasion, had a
devastating socio-economic and humanitarian impact: severe macro-economic imbalances,
physical damages to infrastructure, and decline in private sector activity in the overall debt
burden, loss of agriculture output, massive displacement, etc.

A damage assessment of the third offensive conducted by the University of Asmara put
the value of all destroyed property in the regions of Gash Barka and Debub alone to USD
565.0 million, about 90.0 percent of the country's GDP in 1999. At the time of the third
offensive, Eritrea had also been suffering from recurrent drought. It was at this critical
juncture that the Government of the State of Eritrea, together with its development
partners, had prepared the multi-sector Emergency Reconstruction Program.

2.      Project Objectives: ERP was a timely measure in response to the country's pressing
needs. Its objectives were to jump start the economy and to create the conditions for long term
development, while at the same time tackling the immediate socio-economic needs of the most
vulnerable segment of the population.

3.      Project Components: To achieve its objectives, the project had five components: (a)
Agriculture, (b) Infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation, (c) Private sector reconstruction,
(d) Social protection, and (e) Balance of payments support.

Project development objectives were consistent with the country's Interim Poverty Reduction
strategy Paper (IRSP), Medium Term Plans and Food Security strategy Paper, and the Bank's
Interim Support Strategy (ISS) of 2000. They conformed to the needs and priorities of the target
population. The project directly supported the immediate objectives of the country's recovery
strategy and the Bank's ISS objectives by: (i) reconstructing damaged roads, bridges, power,
water supply systems, schools and other infrastructure with the view to quickly resuming
economic activity, trade and the delivery of social services; (ii) restoring agricultural production
capacity; (iii) Providing debt relief to war affected enterprises and capital to the private sector and
offering technical assistance to the country's banking system in credit analysis and in developing
banking regulations, (iv) assisting poor rural communities, internally displaced persons (IDPs)
and other vulnerable groups to rebuild their lives and resume economic activities; and (v)
restoring macro-economic balance.

The relevance of ERP in relation to the government's development strategy and the Bank's
country assistance strategy was rated high.

4.      Achievement of Objectives and Outputs: The project was prepared in a hurried process
immediately after the signing of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement on June 20, 2000.
However, the overall quality-at-entry was satisfactory.

The project was prepared in consultation and with the full participation of the Bank and other
development partners. There was insufficient time for detailed preparation and appraisal of most


                                            - 68 -

sub- projects. However, adequate assessments of pertinent factors were made. Interventions in the
various components and sub-components were clearly justified. Absorptive capacity of the
economy was taken into account and thus the project was designed according to the principle of
selectivity, i.e. areas that would eventually jump-start the economy were chosen. Potential risks
were identified. Key assumptions were clearly stated: (i) achievement of durable and stable
peace, and (ii) increased pace of the demobilization process.

The project had factored in gender and other vulnerable groups issues. Some of
components/subcomponents activities were designed to primarily benefit female-headed
households and other vulnerable groups.

Measures critical for the success of the project were incorporated into dated legal covenants in the
Development Credit Agreement.

The project was a complex one. It was a multi-sector and multi-donor financed. It covered the
entire country, with focus on the two directly war-affected regions of Gash Barka and Debub.
Taking the complexity of the project into consideration, proper attention was paid to
implementation arrangements and to the Bank's fiduciary requirements and safeguard policies.
The project had benefited from the experiences of RRPE, its predecessor, and the lessons learnt
were incorporated into the design of the project. RRPE's experiences in the areas of procurement
and disbursement helped the project in putting in place an effective, simple and flexible
procurement and disbursement procedures which were well adapted to the emergency situation.

The project did not have base-line data and well defined performance targets and indicators. As a
result, monitoring project performance was not easy.

Because the fundamental assumption of return to normalcy did not hold true, the project was
implemented under challenging and difficult environment: "no war, no peace" impasse with all its
attendant consequences. The difficult environment notwithstanding, the overall program
implementation was satisfactory.

The overall achievement of objectives and outputs under the ERP was satisfactory. The program
had made substantial contribution towards the achievement of the country's recovery objectives.
Its contribution to the country's physical asset creation and building was substantial. Over USD
125.0 million worth of assets had been created in different areas/sectors. This does not include its
contribution to institutional and human capacity building.

4.1 Output achievements: By and large, output targets for all components and sub-components
had been met, although over a longer period of time than originally envisaged. Details, by
component/subcomponent, are summarized below.

4.1.1 Agriculture Component: The objectives of the component and its sub-components were to
revive productive capacities, to assist rural families to re-establish themselves, to introduce some
new income generating activities, especially for women, and to restore and improve the
environment through sustainable land management investments.

The agricultural component had three sub-components: (i) land resources and crop production,
(ii) mechanized agriculture and support services, and (iii) animal resources.




                                            - 69 -

Overall, component targets were met. Output targets of some component elements such as poultry
and watershed treatment were over met, and of some others such as restocking and dairy projects
were not met.

The agricultural component had financed wide-ranging activities. To enable the farming
population in the war-affected areas to resume crop and livestock production, the component had
financed the purchase and distribution of seeds, fertilizers, agricultural tools and implements,
irrigation water pumps, day old chicks, beehives, animal feed, animal health instruments and
equipment, drugs and vaccines and agricultural equipment and machineries. It had also financed
the establishment of a dairy farm, the construction of two veterinary clinics, the provision of
tractor services and had supported sustainable land management through cash for work activities.

To improve animal husbandry management, training had been given to about 8600 beneficiaries
in the areas of poultry, bee-keeping and animal health.

For varying reasons, restocking of draft animals and ruminants was not undertaken. The plan to
provide power for cultivation, harvesting and threshing in view of the losses in the war was not
implemented within the planned time-frame. Most of the IDA money ear-marked for agriculture
(80.0%) was utilized for retro-active financing. As a result, it was not possible to procure tractors
and other farm machineries and equipment in the first two years of the project's life.

In 2001, the Ministry of Agriculture received only 29 tractors with their accessories, 24 threshers
and 12 spreaders. The project, however, provided 162,000 tractor-hour services worth
approximately USD 4.0 million to over 35,0000 needy peasant farmers, enabling them to
cultivate over 71,000.00 ha of land. Towards the end of the project's life, 230 tractors and other
agricultural equipment and machineries worth over USD 12.5 million were procured with Italian
loan fund and IDA supplemental financing.

4.1.2 Infrastructure: The infrastructure component of the ERP had two sub components: (i) the
roads sector sub- component, and (ii) the energy sub-component.

4.1.2.1 Roads Sector sub-component: The objective of the roads sector sub-component, which
was consistent with the sector's strategy, was to provide emergency assistance for the
rehabilitation of key roads and bridges in order to secure timely delivery of food aid and social
services to war and drought affected people. It was also intended to facilitate the return and
resettlement of refugees and internally displaced people. The development objective was to help
the country's economic recovery by reducing road transport costs.

The original plan was to rehabilitate/reconstruct 13 roads, mainly in Gash Barka and Northern
Red Sea regions. For lack of financing, however, 8 projects had to be dropped. With the available
money, it was possible to construct five main roads: Afabet-Azhara road, Abrara-Azhara-
Ma'amide road, Tessenei-Telataasher road, Keru-Kerkebet road and Afabet-Felket-Naro road,
with a total length of 262 Kms.

Under the roads sector sub-component, the program had also financed the installation of bailey
bridges at four sites: (i) the Gash river at Tessenei, (ii) Dassie river at Awgaro, (iii) the Gash river
at Kuluku and (iv) the Barka river at Kerkebet.

The funding shortfall had forced the sub-component to scale down and/or suspend some projects.




                                             - 70 -

The planned budget of the sub-component was USD 36.0 million, and the actual budget was USD
30.0 million, 83.3% of the planned budget.

4.1.2.2 Energy Sub-component: The objective of the energy sub-component was to rehabilitate
and restore existing power generation and distribution capacities of the Hirgigo power plant and
self-contained supply system of five towns ­ Tessenei, Barentu, Senafe, Adikeyih and Adi quala
­ damaged by the border war ­ whose functioning was critical for the resumption of economic
and social activities.

All the necessary civil, mechanical and electrical remedial works of the Hirgigo power plant had
been successfully completed on schedule and had been commissioned in March 2003, and the
substation was also repaired and became operational in the first quarter of 2002.

Rehabilitation of the self-contained system in the five towns had been fully completed and
became operational before the end of 2004. In addition, the program had financed the
procurement of spare parts for generators and distribution materials.

The planned budget for the sub-component was USD 25.0 million, and the actual budget was
USD 22.7 million, 90.8% of the planned budget.

4.1.3 Private Sector Reconstruction Component (PSRC): The objective of the PSRC was to
jump-start the private sector, specially the formal sector, by providing relief to enterprises that
had been particularly affected by the war, and by making foreign exchange, which had been
particularly scarce, available through the banking system.

The component included three sub-components (i) Loan fund (LF) sub-component, (ii) support to
affected enterprises (SAE) sub-component and (iii) technical assistance (TA) sub-component.

Overall, PSRC's performance was rated satisfactory.

4.1.3.1 Loan Fund sub-component (planned budget USD 27.0 million, actual budget USD 34.2
million). With the money made available to the sub-component, it was possible to extend medium
and long-term loans to 195 firms in all regions. Zoba Maekel was the main beneficiary. Of the
total budget allocated to LF, USD 11.1 million had been utilized for retroactive financing for loan
extended to 132 enterprises. Benefiting sectors included manufacturing and agriculture, and most
of the projects were industrial projects of import substituting nature.

There was implementation delay of LF sub component. Regarding the tranching of payments,
there was lack of clarity. Consequently, access to the second tranche took too long, resulting in
disbursement and implementation delays.

4.1.3.2 SAE sub-component: (Planned budget USD 10.0 million., actual budget USD 9.5
million). All war affected enterprises submitted by the participating financial institutions (PFIs)
were fully approved by the Review Committee. Accordingly, debt relief amounting to USD
9,528,215.00 was provided to 1,647 enterprises.

4.1.3.3 TA sub-component (planned budget USD 3.0 million, actual budget USD 2.0 million).
Achievement of the TA sub-component was rated unsatisfactory. Only commercial Bank of
Eritrea benefited from the sub-component. Consultancy services to the other PFIs was not only
limited, but was also interrupted. Bank of Eritrea could not take advantage of the sub-component
services to increase its supervision capacity for insufficiency of funds.


                                            - 71 -

4.1.4 Social Protection Component: The objective of the component was to target the urgent
social and economic needs of the most vulnerable segment of the population and help them
recover from the consequences of both war and drought. The component which specifically
addressed the rehabilitation and construction of basic social infrastructure in area affected by the
war had four sub-components.

4.1.4.1 Replenishing the Eritrean Community Development Fund- (ECDF) (planned budget
USD 21.0 million, and actual budget USD 23.7 million (112.9 %). The aim was to finance the
construction of make shift class-rooms, the rehabilitation and refurnishing of elementary schools,
the construction of junior secondary schools and a teacher training college, the
rehabilitation/construction of feeder roads and the construction of water supply schemes. Sub-
component output targets were 95.0% met. Of the planned 68 projects, 64 had been implemented;
4 projects had been omitted.

4.1.4.2 Saving and Micro Credit Program (SMCP): The SMCP was established in July 1996 and
has been operational since then. Its objective is to provide credit and savings services to rural and
semi-urban communities that do not have access to formal financial institutions. It tries to assist
individuals and groups to increase their income generating ability and improve their earnings and
food security.

The SMCP has basically two-tiered loan products. Group guaranteed loans to individual members
of solidarity group (Tier I loans) focuses on the most disadvantaged and poor segment of the
population. Tier I loans range in size from ERN 3,000.00 to ERN 40,000.00

Tier II allows clients to borrow individually and ranges from over ERN 40,000.00 to ERN
150,000.00. A third, which is a variant of Tier I, enables solidarity group members who have
demonstrated a track record of perfect repayments performance in four loan cycles, to borrow on
an individual basis.

As of December 31,2003, there were 14,227 clients in tier I and 1,796 clients in Tier II, and 184
village banks in all the six zobas of the country spread over 53 sub-zobas of the 59 sub-zobas.
Over 35.0% of the clients were women. The ERP funding had enabled the SMCP to extend its
services to Southern Red Sea region for the first time. Between January 1, 2001 and December
31, 2003, Tier I and Tier II clients and village banks increased by 139%, 633% and 109%
respectively.

Of the funds disbursed under ERP, 46.1% went to businesses in the trade sector, 30.6% to
agriculture, 5.4% to manufacturing and 17.9% to other service activities.

The planned budget of the sub-component was USD 2.0 million. Because the sub-component had
performed well, an additional USD 2.0 million had been reallocated to SMCP at the beginning of
2002, which was completely utilized before the end of the year.

4.1.4.3 Housing Program Sub-Component: the sub-component was originally designed to
provide construction materials to subsidize the cost of rebuilding war-damaged houses. The plan
was to assist 20,000 HHs in zobas Gash Barka and Debub. Money secured for the program was,
however, USD 3.0 million, too small to meet the planned target. Thus the government, taking
equity and other technical difficulties into consideration, had decided to reallocate the secured
funds to finance part of the housing project for war-disabled persons.



                                            - 72 -

The housing project for war-disabled persons is a huge project and will be implemented in three
phases. To date, the ERP has disbursed over ERN 140.00 million, 40.0% of the estimated project
cost.

4.1.4.4 Social safety Net Sub-Component: The aim of sub-component was to finance various
traditional safety nets to be implemented at the community level. Activities undertaken under the
sub-component were: (i) cash transfer to HHs particularly affected by the war, (ii) construction of
orthopedic workshop, (iii) procurement of pharmaceutical drugs, and (iv)construction of
community centers. The last activity was dropped for budget shortfall.

4.1.4.4.1 Cash Transfer: The objective of the cash transfer fund was to assist vulnerable
people, mainly returning IDPs, to re-establish themselves. ERN 50.00 million had been
given to 24,760 HHs, over 30.0% of the people in the most war-affected sub-zobas of
Gash Barka and Debub. The cash transfers in the form of ERN 2,000.00 grants were
given to individual HHs, following a set of eligibility criteria defined by local
committees. It was made at a time when IDPs were returning to their home villages, just
before the onset of the main rainy season. The cash transfer was utilized for purchase of
food (41.6%), restocking (25.5), shelter (8.3), seeds (3.7) and farm tools (1.9%). As part
of the cash transfer, an additional cash assistance amounting to ERN 1.6 million was given to 400
poor HHs in the Senafe sub zoba for the purchase of seeds. It can be said in a way that the cash
transfer was an insertion package.

4.1.4.4.2 Orthopedic workshop: the objective of this sub-project was to build the capacity of
orthopedic workshops through improved facility and increased number of expertise in order to
increase production and to improve the quality of therapeutic services. With ERN 10.0 million,
the program financed the construction of orthopedic workshop in Adi Guadad. Construction
works of the orthopedic workshop had been completed at the end of 2005.

4.1.4.4.3 Procurement of drugs: As part of the social safety net sub-component, the program had
procured pharmaceutical drugs worth USD 460,693.00 (amount ERN 6,000,000.00) for mentally
disabled people, meeting two years requirements of the implementing agencies.

4.1.5 Balance of Payments Support: Component objective was to provide the government with
immediate, quick disbursing balance of payments support. The aim was to reduce the deficit and
help macro-economic stabilization.
Implementation of the BOPs support had to be postponed until after mid-2005 for lack of
funding. Even then it was implemented partially. With the Italian soft loan of USD 34.0 million,
230 tractors, 470-cultivation equipment, various irrigation equipments, 1 milk processing plant, 1
tomato production line, 156 transport vehicles, spare-parts, gabions etc. were procured.

The planned budget was USD 77.5 million, and the actual budget was USD 34.0 million 43.9%.

4.2 Outcome Achievements:

Achievements of project development objectives was rated satisfactory. Overall project
immediate objectives had been attained. Highlights of project outcome impact are described
below by component and sub-component.

4.2.1 Agriculture: The outcome of the agricultural component was adversely affected by the
prolonged drought conditions.-



                                           - 73 -

The land resources and crop production sub-sub-component had, by and large, been successful in
achieving its immediate objectives. It had positive impact on the target population. It had enabled
them to return to their home villages, and to re-start their traditional farming activities. At present,
there are no IDPs in camps. However, due to the erratic rainfall situation, rain-fed agriculture
does not seem to be sustainable.

The impact of irrigated agriculture in improving the livelihood of beneficiaries was satisfactory. It
had enabled them to increase their income and to improve their well being. The OIA study results
revealed that both the yield and acreage of cultivated land increased after using water irrigation
pumps and other tools.

The outcome of the animal resources sub-component was not satisfactory. The poultry
intervention had helped beneficiaries, especially female-headed households, to earn small income
and to improve their nutritional status in the short-run. But the income level was too small to
achieve its objective. The effectiveness of the bee-keeping element was poor. It only helped few
households to achieve the objective of increased income.

The designs of the poultry and bee-keeping activities were faulty, and could not be sustainable. In
grain deficit country like Eritrea where feed is very expensive, the sustainability of poultry is
questionable. The same thing is true for bee-keeping where the country's flora situation is
endangered.

The findings of the outcome impact assessment study show that the component suffered from
lack of adequate design of strategy and absence of participation of the Ministry of Agriculture
zoba branch offices during planning. Furthermore, no meaningful design modification was made
in the course of component implementation to reflect the realities on the ground. Moreover,
several unplanned activities such as the provision of tractor services, the purchase/implementation
of irrigation equipment and electric heaters and the construction of boreholes were undertaken.

4.2.2 Infrastructure
4.2.2.1 Roads sector sub-component: The constructed road network and bridges covered
extensive areas and have opened up rich agricultural areas and areas with potential mineral
resources and have connected the country with neighboring Sudan. The ERP financed roads and
bridges had facilitated the provision of emergency relief assistance to war and drought affected
areas, and the return of IDPs to their home villages. They had also facilitated the repatriation and
reintegration of Eritrean refugees from the Sudan.

4.2.2.2 Energy Sub-component: Power generating capacity of the Hirgigo power plant, which is
almost double the current peak demand for electricity, had been fully restored. The quality and
reliability of power supply has been enhanced. The restoration of power generating capacity of
the plant has allowed the Eritrea Electric Corporation to start extensive rural electrification
program, to provide essential inputs to facilitate productive activities. Over 110,000.00 customers
are presently served, and the number of rural households that have gained access to adequate
lighting has increased.

The rehabilitation work on the damaged self contained system in five towns had contributed to
the quality and reliability of electricity supply. The OIA study findings show the generation and
supply of electricity have increased by 157.0% and the number of customers by 30.0%.




                                             - 74 -

The smooth and relatively less interrupted supply of electricity has promoted productivity
increase of existing micro and small enterprises and the creation of new ones. The OIA study
findings revealed that enterprises have increased by 30.0%. The improved supply of electricity
has also contributed to the enhancement of the quality of social services delivered.

Parts of the distribution materials were used for rural electrification in Himbrti, Mekerka, etc
areas, benefiting about 10,000 customers in over 28 village communities.

4.2.3 Private Sector Reconstruction Component (PSRC): Overall, participation in the PSRC
had helped PFIs, with varying degree, to improve their performance and their compliance with
prudential supervisory standards. Its impact on lending and availability of foreign exchange was
positive. It resulted in net increase in lending and foreign exchange.

The Loan Fund (LF) sub-component had helped in increasing sub-borrowers access to foreign
exchange and in boosting their business performance in terms of sales, profit and employment. It
had also assisted in increasing sub-borrowers linkages with domestic private firms in terms of
higher purchases from and sales to local firms.

Most sub-borrowers used funds to procure equipment and machineries. This had helped them to
be on a higher performance trajectory and to increase their productive capacity and /or to
improve the quality of their products. Its sustainability, however, will, to a large degree, depend
on sustained acquisition of foreign exchange.

In terms of foreign exchange earnings, the LF sub-component was not effective. It did not help in
generating foreign exchange via export earnings. Priority was not given to firms with potential to
earn or save foreign exchange.

The LF positive impact notwithstanding, it fell far short of meeting their business needs.

The impact of the SAE sub-component was limited. It did not seem to have helped beneficiary
firms to improve their business performance. But it had enabled them to receive new loans. The
new loans did contribute to their survival, but were insufficient to meet their rebuilding needs.

The TA sub-component did not have the desired outcome. Its impact was small to moderate. The
TA sub-component was supposed to help ensure the successful implementation of the PSRC. The
achievement of the TA objective depended on the success of the PFIs joint MIS undertaking,
which was a failure, and on the availability of skilled manpower, which was in short supply.

The faulty design of the TA sub-component had adversely affected its outcome. First, the two
year time-frame was not sufficient to allow sub-component's objective achievement; secondly,
the TA was planned to support implementation of the other PSR sub-components, which ran
concurrently. In other words, the time-frame and the sequencing were not right.

Nonetheless, the PFIs did express satisfaction with much of the TA they received. The EDIB is
currently implementing the consultant's recommendations and the others plan to do so once
skilled manpower are made available.

ERP's contribution to private sector development was much larger than that of PSRC.
Implementation of many ERP financed projects (TTI, water schemes, JSS, elementary schools,
roads, orthopedic workshop, bus station, etc.) worth over USD 45.0 million was undertaken by
private companies.


                                             - 75 -

4.2.4 Social Protection:

4.2.4.1 ECDF: The construction and rehabilitation of schools have positive outcome. They have
positively impacted the physical capital accumulation of the education sector.

At the elementary level, schooling was not interrupted in the war affected areas due to the
construction of the makeshift class-rooms and the timely completion of the school
projects.

Access to elementary schools have improved in areas where schools had been built, especially in
zoba Gash Barka. They have contributed to increased enrolment and have reduced travel distance.
At the junior secondary level, the percentage of girls in total enrolment has declined and their
drop out rates is higher.

The Afambo boarding school not only has it contributed to solve the intake capacity limitations at
the junior secondary level, but it has also contributed to increased enrolment in a zoba that has
low student enrolment rate compared to the national average at all levels.

The Adi keyih Teacher Training Institute is expected to contribute to the alleviation of shortages
of teachers.

The findings of the outcome impact assessment study have revealed that the schools have
shortages of teachers and basic teaching/learning materials such as text-books. Most of the
schools do not have basic amenities such as water and electricity supply. The classes are
overcrowded (55-60 students per classroom) and the teacher/student ratio (56) is higher than the
national average. The inadequacies of the school facilities have, reportedly, adversely affected the
quality of education and the performance of students.

The constructed feeder roads have contributed in connecting them to main roads and to basic
social services. They have reduced travel time to market places, health facilities as well as social
trips.

Construction of the feeder roads had provided communities with opportunities to earn a living.
Participation of community member in the construction of feeder roads have enabled them to
acquire marketable skills in various construction fields.

Currently there are no regular transport services and the traffic is low. This should be seen in light
of the objective condition prevailing in the country as a result of the "no war, no peace" situation.

The emergency water supply projects will increase the supply of potable and safe water to the
target population, reduce the water collection time and decrease water-borne diseases and related
health costs.

The time saved as a result of the reduction in travel time is expected to allow households to put
more time on productive activities, thereby increasing their productivity and output.

4.2.4.2 Saving and Micro Credit Program (SMCP): The ERP financing enabled the SMCP to
play a vital role in the reintegration of displaced persons and the rehabilitation of looted and/or
destroyed businesses in Debub, Gash Barka and Southern Red Sea regions. 57% of the total ERP



                                             - 76 -

fund was disbursed in those three war affected regions. The fund had enabled SMCP to expand its
outreach nationwide. Moreover, since the funds are revolving funds, the ERP money is still
helping the institution to serve more clients and further expand its outreach.
The repayment rate for the period under review was high, 92.5% overall.

4.2.4.3 Social safety Net: The orthopedic workshop has contributed towards the improvement of
the working environment. Disabled persons with appliances have better opportunities to secure
employment and to win social acceptance in their communities. The existing capacity of the
country's orthopedic workshops can only meet 45.0% of the demand, of which the ERP financed
workshop contributes 63.0%. The workshop has become operational and has commenced
rendering services. However, due to shortages of raw materials and supplies and lack of qualified
technicians, the actual production is well below what is attainable.

The drug supplies for the mentally disabled, which was enough to meet the country's
requirements for two years, had enabled the psychiatric hospital/clinics to cope up with the
increased number of patients.

The cash transfer had helped beneficiaries to re-establish themselves and start life anew. It had
positively affected their sense of security and safety.

4.2.5 Capacity Building: With respect to capacity building, the project had made significant
contribution in many areas. Its contribution in the area of management information systems
(MIS), however, deserves special mention. In 2001, the PMU-ERP took the initiative to develop
an MIS package for finance and reporting. It is gratifying to note that the system is currently used
by seven government projects, saving the country hundreds of thousands of badly needed hard
currency.

In 2003, the PMU-ERP, at the request of the government, had started design and development of
another MIS package. The purpose was to enhance and integrate the existing access based system
to more reliable and sophisticated MIS package using visual basic as front end and SQL as back
end. The undertaking was a success, and the newly finalized system is currently being run parallel
with the existing system at the PMU-ERP and Education Sector Development Program (ESDP).

As part of Capacity building, training on functionality and maintenance of the two systems has
been and continues to be given to PMU-ERP's and other government projects' MIS staff. The
training provided ranges from beginners level to advanced level.

The MIS package development is an important undertaking for two reasons: first, it is home
grown and secondly, it is the property of the government to be used in all government projects
free of charge.

In connection with the MIS packages, the PMU-ERP would like to draw the attention of the
government of the need to pay due attention to the issue of sustainability of the two systems.




                                            - 77 -

5.0 Major factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors Outside the Control of Government or the Implementing Agency

The project was appraised/designed in an immediate post-conflict situation, in an environment of
uncertainties. Its implementation was predicated on irreversible peace, i.e. reduction of military
expenditures and demobilization of the army. Unfortunately, none of the assumptions made
proved accurate in light of the "no war, no peace" impasse.

The "no war, no peace" situation was the major factor that adversely affected project
implementation. Despite the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement and the Algiers Peace Accord,
the "no war, no peace" status resulted in heightened mobilization and continued high
expenditures on defense, further aggravating shortages of skilled and unskilled manpower and the
country's macro-economic imbalances with all its attendant consequences such as inflation,
shortages of construction materials, fuel, etc.

The recurrent drought had also adversely affected the outcome of the agriculture component.

5.2 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

Government commitment to and ownership of project was high. Counter-part contribution was
paid regularly. The government even pre-financed the cash transfer (US $ 5.0 million at the time),
because disbursement of Italian Trust Money was late. Project received good guidance from the
relevant government authority. However, the government's role in assisting the project to recruit
skilled personnel in some critical areas such as monitoring and evaluation and MIS left much to
be desired.

5.3 Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

By and large, the project was well managed at all levels of implementation. There was good
communication and collaboration between PMU-ERP, the implementing bodies and development
partners. The project benefited from the guidance it received from the Ministry of National
Development. The institutional set up established was highly instrumental in achieving the
coordinated and effective implementation. It was also cost effective . As of December 31,2005,
the overall project cost for administration and management, office equipment, furniture, vehicles,
and other operating costs was approximately USD 2.2 million (1.0% of the total cost) and that of
the PMU-ERP was approximately USD 0.75 million (0.36% of the total cost). The project met the
Bank's fiduciary requirements and safeguard policies and complied with all legal covenants.
Until 2003, the project had problem to recruit people with the necessary expertise in monitoring
and evaluation and MIS.

5.4 Costs and Financing

Total project costs were estimated at US $ 287.7 million, financed through IDA and other
development partners. Only 249.0 million of the planned budget was committed. Some donors
failed to honor their pledges. All IDA credit and supplemental financing and Italian Trust Money
and Loan was disbursed at the end of the project's life.

Some components/sub-components were under-financed and others were over-financed. There
were no major changes in overall project costs and financing. But some minor adjustment were



                                           - 78 -

made in the agricultural component and social Safety Net sub-component in response to changing
conditions on the ground.

Most projects involving civil works faced cost over-runs, partly due to upgrading of projects and
partly due to the inflationary situation.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for Sustainability rating
As the project was a complex one covering many sectors and supporting multitude of
interventions in the different sectors, rating its sustainability is difficult. Sustainability
will vary from component to component and within component. The sustainability of the
project interventions will, by and large, depend on the resolution of the border issue and
the stability of the macro-economic environment.

Given the severely constrained budgetary situation and given the magnitude of the operational
and maintenance costs of the project interventions, sustainability of the project elements will be
taxing to the government budget. Sustainability of the project interventions cannot be ensured
without increased budgetary allocations.

The Loan Fund is by design and implementation unsustainable. Priority was not given to export
oriented sub-borrowers and the facility was one-time injection. As a result, its long-term impact
will be limited.

Sustainability of rain-fed agriculture is uncertain, because of low and erratic rainfall and of the
eroded soil condition. Whereas that of irrigated agriculture is likely, provided the necessary
inputs and services are made available at reasonable prices. Sustainability of poultry and bee-
keeping is unlikely for major flaws in the design. The design strategy of the two interventions
failed to take into account the objective situation on the ground such as the environment, the need
for bee colonies, shortage and the high prices of feed, foreign exchange shortage, etc.

Sustainability of the main roads is likely. The roads and bridges are part of the national road
network and their maintenance is ensured. The maintenance costs are budgeted by the Ministry of
Public Works.

Sustainability of energy projects is likely. Both the organizational set up and cost recovery are in
place. The rural electrification program, however, has to be subsidized. Due to low customer
density and small per capita demand, the rural electrification program is expensive and is beyond
the financial limits of Eritrea Electric Corporation (EEC).

For education, all major operational and maintenance costs will be assured by the Ministry of
Education. With respect to feeder roads, a strong maintenance unit needs to be established in
every Zoba to ensure sustained maintenance of the roads. It should be recognized that ownership
by and commitment of the local communities in itself does not ensure sustainability.
Sustainability of the feeder roads will require that the relevant actors have the necessary financial,
managerial and technical capacities. This critical issue will require substantial input from regional
administrations and communities.




                                            - 79 -

To ensure sustainability of the three water schemes, there is a plan to provide them with office
buildings and facilities and to train manpower to operate and manage them.

Under the prevailing situation, the sustainability of the orthopedic workshop is hard to tell.
Presently, it is facing a number of problems and is operating under its attainable capacity for lack
of inputs.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

   Bank

7.1 Lending:

The quality of the project at entry and the performance of IDA in identification, preparation and
appraisal were satisfactory. The objectives of the project were consistent with country's
reconstruction strategy and with the Bank's Interim support strategy. In designing the project,
sufficient risk analysis was made.

Building on the experience of RRPE, project design was good and reflected the emergency and
complex nature of the project. The flexible disbursement and procurements procedures and the
harmonized procedures for finance and reporting best illustrate this fact.

To mitigate the adverse impact of the drought, Bank, as a quick response to the government's
request for supplemental grant financing, approved USD 15.0 million.

7.2 Supervision:

Overall project supervision was rated satisfactory. The project had regular supervision. Four
implementation support missions were mounted during the project life. Complementary
component/sub-component specific missions were carried out as the need arose. Finance and
procurement assessments were carried out regularly. The missions demonstrated flexibility and
cooperation in addressing issues and problems. There were no delays in issuing no objections and
effecting replenishment.

The project had some turnover (four) of TTLs. However, the turnover did not impact the project
negatively. Certainly, the appointment of the TTL, who served longest, as manager of the World
Bank country office contributed to the smooth/excellent working relationship between the Bank
and the Borrower.

However, the skill mix of the missions could have been improved. They failed to include
agriculture and M&E experts. Project implementation could have benefited from more elaborate
M&E system and from the inclusion of agricultural experts in the missions.

The project did not find the Bank's financial management system to be flexible. Although the
erroneous charging of USD 5.5 million was identified on time, it was not possible to reverse the
said money from TF27801 to Cr.3434. Besides, there was a design flaw regarding tranching of
the loan fund sub-component. The reversing problem and the lack of clarity about tranching
contributed to slow implementation progress of Loan Fund and roads sector sub-component.




                                           - 80 -

7.3 Overall Bank Performance:

The Bank's overall performance was rated satisfactory. Initial closing had to be postponed once
to December 31, 2004 for IDA credit and Grant and to December 31, 2005 for the Italian Grant.

Borrower

7.4 Preparation:

Borrower's performance was rated satisfactory. The project was a priority for the
government. Accordingly, there was high government commitment to and ownership of
project. The government ensured that the project was well embedded to the country's
overall strategy for reconstruction.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

project was implemented during a difficult and challenging period .Nevertheless, the government
provided its full counter-part contribution throughout. It also pre-financed the cash transfer at a
critical time, because the Italian grant was late in disbursing. The money was made available at a
time when IDPs were returning to their home villages, just before the onset of the rainy season.
The money provided had assisted them to re-establish themselves.

Lessons Learned

The implementation experience of ERP has taught the government several key lessons.
· The need to give special attention to implementation modalities for complex multi-sector and
     multi ­donor projects such as the ERP at the stage of design.
· The experience of ERP has shown that even in emergency situations there is a need for
     adequate design strategy. Besides, there is a need to make design modifications during project
     implementation and that it is important to pay more attention to uncertainties and to design
     ways and means of reducing them.
· The need to have elaborate monitoring and evaluation and dependable MIS systems in place
     from the outset, and to create a baseline data and to identify performance targets and
     indicators even for emergency projects characterized by uncertainty.
· The experience of ERP has abundantly demonstrated that the contribution of harmonized
     procedures to the success of multi-donor financed project is significant.
· The need to sequence properly project implementation when fulfillment of certain tasks
     depends on the accomplishment of earlier tasks.
· The need to have only one special account. One special account ensures control and
     coordination.
· In situations where poverty is pervasive, it is not easy to come up with criterion (criteria) that
     would avoid
    serious inclusion and exclusion errors.
     While TA for capacity building is necessary, it should have been planned and implemented
     separately from the emergency project with short time-frame and should have realistic
     objectives. This was also a lesson learned from RRPE.




                                            - 81 -

