Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3434-ER
Project Agreement
(Emergency Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK OF ERITREA
Dated December 6, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3434-ER
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANK OF ERITREA (BE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
The State of Eritrea (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower for Part C of the Project an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
23,100,000) for Part C of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that BE agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BE, 
part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to BE on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS BE, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part C of the Project;
Management and Operations of BE
Section 2.01. (a) BE declares its commitment to the objectives of Part C of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to this 
end, shall carry out Part C of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and 
experienced management team, and consistently with the provisions of the PIP. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and BE shall otherwise agree, BE shall carry out Part C 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
(c)
  BE shall:  (i)  maintain, until the completion of Part C of the 
Project,  the PSR  Unit, in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii)  be responsible for the carrying out of Part C of the Project 
including the supervision of the PFIs in the carrying out of their obligations under 
the Participation Agreements.
(d)
BE shall:
(i)
make available to the PFIs the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Categories (4) and (5) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement under Participation 
Agreements to be entered into between BE and each PFI, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
including the terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services or other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the PFIs to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of their respective Participation 
Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and 
not to take any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
Section 2.02. (a) BE undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans  will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in PIP and Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
BE shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association, of the Borrower, and of 
BE; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement 
and the Participation Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part C of the 
Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and 'services required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) BE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
Page  3
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of Part C of the Project Agreement. 
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, BE shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and BE, a plan for the future 
operation of Part C the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with BE on said plan.
Section 2.05. BE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary  
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BE shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) BE shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and to that end, together 
with the Borrower, review with the Association, periodically as necessary progress in 
carrying out Part C of the Project, with a view to determining and effecting such 
changes as may be required to ensure the successful carrying out of Part C of the 
Project.
(b)
BE shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  Part C of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BE of its 
obligations under this Agreement, or under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BE shall, maintain records, accounts and financial statements 
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part C of  the  Project and each  
Subproject.
(b)
BE shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
with respect to Part C of the Project for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association a management letter and such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Page  4
Agreement, BE shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for Part C of the Project in 
order to enable  BE, not later than three months after the Effective Date, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part C of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit  during the 
period  covered  by  said  report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)
(i) describes progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual 
and previously forecast implementation targets. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date  10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BE of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  5
For BANK OF ERITREA:
21 Victory Street
Asmara
Eritrea
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BE or by BE on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Governor, or by such other person or persons as the Governor shall 
designate in writing, and BE shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANK OF ERITREA
By /s/ Semere Russom
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
BE shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Part C of the Project in 
accordance with the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan, and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, BE shall not amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
2.
The day-to-day management and implementation of Part C of the Project shall be 
carried out through the PSR Unit at the BE. The Governor of  BE  shall establish 
implementation requirements as follows:
(a)
setting up institutional responsibilities and related procedures for the 
implementation and operation of each part of Part C of the Project;
(b)
approving detailed implementation and operational strategies for each 
part of Part C of the Project; 
(c)
defining monitorable implementation targets and performance indicators 
for each part of Part C of the Project, as well as for Part C of the Project as a 
Page  6
whole;
(d)
monitoring implementation and operational progress of Part C of the 
Project with reference to agreed targets and Performance Indicators, including 
guidance to implementing agencies on Project-related problems and issues; and
(e)
interacting with the Association on all Project-related matters including 
reporting on and periodic reviews of Part C of the Project progress, refinements and 
amendments in Part C of the Project design, as necessary. 
3.
The PSR Unit shall be responsible for:
(a)
managing the flow of the Project funds for Part C of the Project for all 
its sub-components, for the purpose of making disbursements out of the Special Account 
to PFIs, enterprises and agencies for eligible Project expenses, collecting repayments 
from PFIs, and agencies, according to agreed amortization schedules, and making 
repayments to the Borrower, as agreed;
(b)
maintaining Project accounts with a control account and sub-accounts for 
each activity under Part C of the Project;
(c)
obtaining, before the initial disbursement to each PFI, a clearance from 
BE management that the PFI has signed the required Participating  Agreement and that 
such an agreement is effective;
(d)
in  disbursing to PFIs, ensuring that the Subprojects financed out of the 
Project funds meet the general eligibility criteria as well as the environmental 
requirements of Part C of the Project; and
(e)
preparing, in conjunction with the respective PFIs, and all other 
implementing agencies, the progress reports on a timely basis to be submitted   to the 
Borrower’s Project Management Unit and the Association.
4.
BE shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with  the Performance   Indicators set 
forth in Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of Part C of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association through the PMU,  6 months after the Effective Date,  a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of Part C of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part C of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and review with the Association, not later than one month thereafter,  or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part C of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the matter. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Subprojects
A.
Eligibility Criteria for  PFIs under  Part C of the Project
5.
 (a)
PFIs shall be evaluated in accordance with the information and criteria 
set out in paragraphs 6, 7 and 8   below.
(b)
The BE  shall have the right to revoke the certification to participate 
in Part C of the Project of any PFI found not to be in full compliance with the  
eligibility criteria of PFIs or the provisions of the Banking Laws of the Borrower and 
any enactment and prudential regulations relating thereto.
Page  7
6.
Each PFI under Part C of the Project shall:
(a)
be licensed under the Borrower’s 1997 Financial Institutions Proclamation 
Number 94 of 1997;
(b)
be subjected to full bank supervisory examinations (on-site as well as 
off-site) by the BE; and
(c)
produce  in a timely manner (within six months or less after the end of 
the  financial year) externally audited annual financial statements and a Management 
Letter in conformity with BE regulations and  in accordance to standards acceptable to 
the Association.
7. 
In      
In  addition to the criteria referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) 
through (c)  of paragraph  6 and2    after being declared an eligible PFI, the  PFI  
shall  provide the PSR Unit with monthly statistical reports on the Ssub-loans 
financed out of the Investments (including loan collection performance) and 
semi-annual progress reports on the lending portfolio under Part C of the Project and 
progress with the technical assistance under Part C of the Project.
8.
The eligibility criteria for PFIs set out in paragraphs   6 and 7  (a) and 
(b)shall be subject to such changes as the BE in consultation with the Association may 
determine.
B.
Participation Agreement
9..
Each Participation Agreement shall, inter alia, contain provisions pursuant to 
which each PFI that has been declared an eligible participating financial institution 
shall:
(a)
continue to operate under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
appraise the financial, technical, environmental and economic feasibility 
of Subprojects;
(c)
make Sub-loans to Final Beneficiaries under Part C. 2 of the Project on 
the basis of the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth in the PIP 
and this Schedule;
(d)
maintain the organization, management staff and other resources required 
for the efficient carrying out of its activities and for the management of Sub-loans 
granted to Final Beneficiaries; 
(e)
provide BE and the Association with a medium-term business plan which 
outlines its goals for the next three years relating to operations, staff recruitment 
and development, profitability, quality of portfolio and financial condition, and such 
information as they may reasonably request; and
(f)
continue to comply with all eligibility criteria set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan.
C.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to all Subloans 
10.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Subproject   shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Subproject shall have been verified by the PSR Unit 
to meet eligibility criteria for the Investment Fund set forth in the PIP,; and 
(b)
Each request by a PFI for funding in respect of a  Sub-loan shall 
contain: (i) a summary description of the Final Beneficiary, including a description 
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and 
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
Page  8
therefor; and (iii) such other information as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
11.
Sub-loans  shall be made on terms whereby each PFI shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Final Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, of the Association and the BE 
including,  the right to:
(a)
require the Final Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Subproject  
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial 
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be purchased in accordance with private sector commercial practices;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Final Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or PFI shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise or Exporter and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Final Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Final Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under its contract with PFI .
12.
Any Subloan not processed in conformity with the criteria of eligible sectors 
and other eligible criteria set forth in the PIP shall be reimbursed to the Credit.
D.  
Terms and Conditions Relating to the Investments  under Part C.2 
of the Project 
13.
The terms and conditions relating to the Investments shall be governed by the 
guidelines for policies and operating procedures in the PIP and shall inter alia 
include the following:
14. 
(a) 
A portion of proceeds of Credit shall be provided to the PFIs from  BE at 
the marginal cost of funding within the banking system (currently the savings rate-6 
percent);.
(b) 
PFIs  shall be free to charge an interest rate, fixed or variable, on 
Ssub-loans commensurate with the costs and risks involved;. and 
(c)  
the interest rate mechanisms described above shall be reviewed by BE 
periodically and adjusted as appropriate in consultation with the Association.
15.
   Commitments, disbursements and repayments shall  be in  Nakfa. Withdrawal 
applications from the Special Account  shall be made in the dollar equivalent of the  
Nakfa amount.
16.
(a) 
Loan terms and grace periods shall be determined by PFIs in conformity 
with the projected cash flow of the Subprojects. The grace period (on principal only) 
to the PFIs from the BE shall be a standard two year on all loans made.
Page  9
(b)
Maximum Subloan amounts to a single Final Beneficiary or related group of 
Final Beneficiaries shall be based upon BE exposure limits, but may not exceed 15 
million Nakfa, unless otherwise agreed to by the Association.
(c) 
The minimum cContributions by the Final Beneficiary shall be determined 
by the PFI.
(d)
The viability of the Subprojects shall be determined by the PFI making 
the Subloan, and shall be subject to review by the PSR Unit. 
(e)
 A Final Beneficiary with current non-performing loans in any financial 
institution shall not be granted Subloans under Part C of the Project. 
E.
Terms and Conditions Relating to the Support to Affected Enterprises under Part 
C. 1 of the Project
17.
The terms and conditions relating to the Support to Affected Enterprises shall 
be governed by the Guidelines for Policies and Operating Procedures in the PIP and 
shall inter alia include the following:
(a)
Debt relief shall be provided in categories as defined in the PIP for 
borrowers affected by the border conflict.
(b)
Funds shall be lent to the PFIs as subordinate loans at a rate equivalent 
to 180 days Treasury Bill rate prevailing at January 01 and July 01 of the previous 
six months period.
(c)
Loans shall be denominated in Nakfa.
(d)
Repayments from the PFIs to the BE shall be over a period of 20 years 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
