Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17914
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3063-ZW)
May 26, 1998
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal: Zimbabwean Dollar (Z$) $2.00   =   US$1.00
At Completion: Zimbabwean Dollar (Z$) $17.00 =   US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACEPP               Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project
AFC                Agricultural Finance Corporation
BADEA              Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CMB                Cotton Marketing Board
COTTCO             Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (formerly CMB)
DRSS                Department of Research and Specialist Services of MOLA
ESAP                Economic Structural Adjustment Program
FAO/CP              FAO/ World Bank Co-operative Program
GOZ                Government of Zimbabwe
HRC                 Horticultural Research Council
HPC                 Horticultural Promotion Council
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
IT                 Information Technology
MIS                 Management Information System
MOLA               Ministry of Lands and Agriculture
MPCNH              Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
MTR                Mid-term Review
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
TA                 Technical Assistance
WB                 World Bank
Vice President           : Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director         : Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager           : Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader              : Caesar Chidawanyika



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3063-ZW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.1i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ............................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ........3
GENERAL OVERVIEW
FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................4
IMPLEMENTATION OF INDIVIDUAL COMPONENTS ..................................................5
CREDIT OPERATIONS ....................................................................5
INSTITUTIONAL  SUPPORT To AFC ....................................................7
CO OrrON SUB-SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ...................................................................9
HORTICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 10
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...................................................................    10
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................................         11
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ......................................................................               12
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................................           13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................................................           13
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ......................................................................              15
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................................           16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Appendices
1. Mission Aide Memoire
2. Government Contribution
3. Miscellaneous Tables
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3063-ZW)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Credit and
Export Promotion Project in Zimbabwe for which Loan No. 3063 in the amount of US$36.3
million was approved on January 31, 1990 and became effective on August 1, 1990.
2.    The Loan was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1995. As at May 5, 1998, an anount of US $ 0.384 million (1% ofthe loan)
remained undisbursed, and is scheduled to be cancelled. Co-financing for the project was
provided by IFAD (SDR 11.9 million, equivalent US$ 17.0 million); BADEA (US$ 2.0 million)
and the Government of Japan (Y 235 million, equivalent US$ 2.1 million).
3.    The ICR is based on a draft report prepared by staff of FAO/CP and a consultant from
IFAD/World Bank on behalf of Africa Rural Development Operations Group 1 of the World
Bank. Additional contributions were received from S. Hiwa of the Bank Resident Mission in
Malawi and other Bank staff members. The main co-financier, IFAD, provided comments which
have been incorporated in the report. The borrower contributed to the ICR by providing
comments, contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and preparing their own
evaluation on the project's execution.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission which
took place from November 24 to December 12, 1997. It is based on material in the project files
as well as findings of the ICR mission in the field during January 12 - 30, 1998.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3063-ZW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The idea for the Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project (ACEPP) was
conceived in mid-1987 during the course of the supervision of the IDA-supported Small Farm
Credit Project (SFCP, Cr. 1291-ZW). It formed part of the government's and the World Bank's
development strategies for the agricultural sector and aimed at building on the experiences
gathered from the implementation of the SFCP, the Bank/IFAD supported National Extension
and Research Project (Ln. 2335) and other donor-funded activities. Appraised in 1988, project
implementatiion commenced in early August 1991 and closed at the end of December 1997, two
years behind schedule largely because implementation delays in the civil works program, and
need to provide further support for training and additional technical assistance to facilitate
Agricultural Finance Corporation's restructuring.
Statement/Evaluation Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to increase the production of food, cash and export
crops among smallholders and, through diversification, increase the output of export and import
substitution products by commercial farmers. Components included agricultural credit;
institutional support for the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC); a pilot group lending
scheme; expansion and improvement of the cotton processing and storage facilities;
strengthening of horticultural post-harvest research; and horticultural export marketing and
cotton sub-sector studies. During implementation, a further component, Cotton Input Credit
Scheme, was added and the horticultural post-harvest research was expanded to include pilot
field trials in communal areas.
Implementation Experience and Results
Achievement of Objectives
3.    The project marginally achieved its objectives. On the one hand, the performance of the
AFC's smallholder credit operations, including the group lending scheme, which were a major part
of the project were characterized by widespread loan defaults and a substantial decline in outreach.
Hence, the aim of increasing accessibility of smallholder farmers to credit from AFC was not
achieved. The AFC was chosen as the main channel for the line of credit under the project



- iii -
primarily because it was at the time the only recognized organization offering formal credit to the
smallholder sector. Yet it failed to develop a sustainable smallholder loan portfolio as a result of (i)
an unsupportive and largely inappropriate policy framework provided by government, (ii)
continued weaknesses in AFC's internal management capacities and information system. GOZ's
approach to smallholder credit, centering around interest rate subsidy, government loan guarantees,
and restrictions on AFC loan recovery activities, proved to be unsustainable and failed to achieve
the desired objectives. The government has begun to reassess its entire approach to support formad
financial services and to explore other viable alternatives. The introduction of the cotton inputs
credit scheme is one such alternative that has proved successful in providing a large proportion of
cotton farmers with improved access to finance. In the commercial fanning sub-sector, the project
provided foreign exchange for recapitalization following years of low investment in that subsector.
This helped to halt the decline in agricultural production experienced in the late 1980s resulting
from low levels of capital investment forced by shortage of foreign currency.
4.    Institutional support for the AFC, partially achieved its objectives. On the one hand, the
provision of transport facilities and staff training were satisfactorily implemented. On the other
hand, the civil works program was substantially scaled down and, although a mainframe computer
was bought, the management information system (MIS) was not fully operational by the time the
project ended. Although not part of the institutional objectives at appraisal, the project financially
and technically supported the restructuring plans of AFC to whose overriding objective is to enable
AFC to operate in a commercially viable environment by converting itself into a bank to be known
as Agribank.
5.    Changes brought about by the structural adjustment program, specifically the liberalization
of crop pricing, marketing and processing, forced the Cotton Marketing Board (CMB) to shift its
emphasis from expanding ginning capacity, as envisaged under the project, to providing better
quality services to farmers and increasing producer prices in response to emerging competition.
This process involved the transformation of the CMB to a commercial company, and its subsequenit
privatization as the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (Cottco) in 1997. Project support,
complemented by an IDF grant for institutional analysis, helped CMB to improve and streamline its
activities. The final outcome has been improved market access and farm incomes for smallholder
cotton farmers, an important objective of the project.
6.    The achievement of the horticultural component cannot be fully assessed because the
physical facilities provided by the project were not operational by the time the project ended.
However, the project provided critical technical assistance and support for training of staff to
strengthen the research capability at the HRC. The pilot field trials program provides a sound basis
for expanding horticultural production by smallholder farmers in several locations. It also provides
an example of effective research/extension/farner linkages. The Horticultural and Cotton Sub-
sector studies were satisfactorily completed and contributed to the subsequent growth and
liberalization of the sectors.



-iv -
Project Costs and Financing
7.    Total project costs are estimated to be US$ 100 million (SAR estimate US$ 117 million)
of which US$ 56.4 million was in foreign exchange (SAR estimate US$ 62.4 million) and US$
43.7 million was in local currency (SAR estimate US$ 54.5 million). The 6% difference between
the SAR and the estimated actual costs is largely attributable to the steady decline in the value of
the Zimbabwe dollar against all major currencies which occurred throughout project
implementation, the sharp reduction in the cotton component as well as a significant reduction
of the AFC civil works program.
8.    The World Bank provided US$ 35.9 million; IFAD US$ 17 million; BADEA US$ 2.0
million; and the Japanese government US$ 2.1 million. The remainder of the project financing,
around US $ 44 million, was provided by GOZ, the implementing agencies and the farmers.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.    Project implementation was affected by significant changes in the macro-economic
environment, which were introduced under the Economic and Structural Adjustment Program
(ESAP) starting one year after the project became operational. The changing environment
particularly affected the Cotton subcomponent as the CMB was forced to re-examine its
corporate and commercial strategies. The AFC, on the other hand, was slow in developing and
implementing an effective strategy in response to the changing economic environment in order to
enhance the performance of its credit portfolio. Other factors which impacted on project
implementation were the two major droughts experienced in the country in 1991/1992 and
1994/1995; the persistently high rates of inflation in the economy; and institutional capacity
limitations, liquidity problems, and sporadic government interventions as related to the AFC.
Project Sustainability
10.   Overall, the sustainability of the project is uncertain because the credit program is not
viable unless the number of defaulters is reduced, loan recovery rates are significantly improved,
AFC lends only to potentially viable clients and operates purely on commercial lines and the
planned restructuring of AFC is carried out with due diligence. On the other hand, project
activities in the cotton sub-sector are sustainable because they are viable and operating in a
privatized environment. The sustainability of the horticultural component is uncertain, but
DR&SS is now closely studying the scope for commercialization of research and specialist
services including horticultural reassert. Furthermore, horticultural research could also be
effectively financed and guided by the private sector.
Bank Performance
11.   The Bank's performance was marginally satisfactory. The project concept was based on
a now discarded approach to targeting credit facilities to smallholder farmers, through a
parastatal agency, involving subsidized interest rates to the borrower, and government loan
guarantees. This approach has largely failed. The limitations in project design could have been



overcome had the Bank been proactive in initiating a restructuring of the project at an early stage.
The Bank also was unable to influence necessary institutional and policy changes required to
improve the viability of AFC's operations particularly with respect to the limitations put on AFC
in making autonomous decisions in its lending operations. Although a mid-term review of the
project was not undertaken, the project was regularly supervised and the findings and
recommendations that were made facilitated project implementation. The Bank also facilitated a
series of adjustments and modifications in project components and support throughout the life
the project, including a major restructuring in 1995, in response to the changing macro-economic
environment.
Borrower Performance
12.   Borrower performance was also marginally satisfactory. Despite institutional capacity
weaknesses, particularly at the AFC, the implementing agencies performed adequately during thie
course of project implementation. All loan covenants, except those relating to the timely
completion of financial audits, were fulfilled. The government failed to honor financial
guarantees and indemnities to AFC against smallholder lending losses and interfered with the
organization's efforts to vigorously pursue loan defaulters and sell their assets. The poor
performance of the Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing and its arbitrary
decision to carry out the works in preference to private contractors, unnecessarily delayed
completion of construction of the horticultural post-harvest research facilities.
Project Outcome
13.   The project outcome is classified as marginally unsatisfactory largely because of the poor
performance of the AFC smallholder credit program. The delay in the commissioning of the
horticultural post-harvest research facility is another negative factor. On the positive side, the
outcome of lending to the commercial sub-sector was satisfactory as it helped halt and reverse
the decline in that sector's production and contributed towards a more diversified pattern of
production. The outcome of the cotton sub-sector interventions was also satisfactory in that the
delinting plants financed by the project are operating viably and producing high quality cotton
seed. A Cotton Input Credit Scheme, supported under the project, is viable and sustainable and is
providing access to finance for some 90,000 smallholders, this being more farmers than reached
by AFC at the peak of its credit program.
14.   Although the smallholder credit component was problematic throughout the project, the
overall project performance continued to be rated as satisfactory for various reasons. Other
components of the project were performing relatively satisfactorily. Supervision missions
genuinely believed that matters were improving as, at different stages, there were some hopeful
signs of positive changes that would result in improved performance of the smallholder
operations. Firstly, during the period up to 1992, before the major drought, AFC had brought
down arrears to 16.5%, (from over 35% at the beginning of the project), as a result of various
measures and this gave optimism that the project target of 15% would be met. Secondly,
between 1993 and 1995 the initial success of the group credit scheme in reducing defaults and
credit delivery costs, as well as improving outreach, also led to the belief that performance in this



- vi -
sector would improve significantly as the group scheme expanded and replaced individual credit
as the main channel of lending. Thirdly, at the end of 1996, faced with the rapidly deteriorating
performance of the smallholder credit portfolio, the government agreed to implement various far
reaching measures to reverse this trend including the reversal of its directive stopping AFC from
calling on defaulters' assets, the proposed restructuring of the organization and the creation of
Agribank, exploring alternative viable mechanisms for rural financial services as well as
addressing AFC's internal management weaknesses especially strengthening of the MIS. Most
of these measures, except the restructuring proposals, were implemented as agreed but
unfortunately the performance did not improve during the final year of the project as had been
anticipated.
Future Operations
15.   AFC has prepared a medium term Operational Plan addressing issues of management and
credit. Among its proposals are the separation of the non-viable portfolio from the non-
performing portfolio with the former being transferred to the proposed Agribank; restoration of
liquidity and viability; and the improvement of credit management skills and information
systems. These proposals were approved by the government in May 1998 and are expected to be
implemented immediately. No operational plan was received from Cottco but, as earlier
indicated, the delinting plant and the Cotton Inputs Supply Scheme are viable operations. The
Department of Research and Specialist Services (DRSS) of MOLA plans to request government
to allow the Horticultural Research Center to raise its own funds through contracting out some of
its services and commercializing part of its activities.
Lessons Learned
16.   The main lessons learned from implementing this project are:
*  the need to appropriately sequence project interventions, particularly in relation to
implementing required policy reforms and strengthening institutional capacity before
major expansion programs are implemented;
*  specific lessons relating to credit are consistent with lessons learned from various
other similar rural finance projects including: (i) the importance of strengthening the
autonomy of the financial institutions as it is difficult to create a sustainable
agricultural credit system when financial institutions are susceptible to government
interference in operational decisions relating to client selection, loan recovery and
interest rates; (ii) the narrow targeting of agricultural finance clientele weakens the
sustainability of the institutions. More innovative ways of lending to smallholders
and other high risk farmers should be investigated, including the channeling of credit
through intermediaries that provide a range of other services in rural areas, to
encourage competition and increased efficiency (including minimizing the cost of
credit); (iii) Government credit guarantee or subsidized schemes which indemnify
lending institutions against all losses discourage the development of viable credit



- vii -
systems as these organizations bear no risk for such losses and therefore have little
incentive to aggressively pursue loan defaulters. Rather than provide credit
guarantees, there may be scope for the government to reduce the costs of rural
financial operations, including through support in the formation and training of
farmer groups and clubs; (iv) the initial success of the group lending scheme was
based on a cautious approach involving the selection of already established groups
and the provision of adequate training in credit management, but the scheme faltered
when it was rapidly expanded as groups were hastily formed for the purpose of
qualifying for credit without proper training and due regard for group cohesion; (v)
and the CCZ's system of tranching of disbursements of loans or inputs at various
stages of the growing season provides a useful mechanism for minimizing the risks and
scale of losses if weather conditions, or other critical factors, deteriorate as the season
progresses; and
* the lesson learned from the pilot horticultural field trials relates to the importance of
collaboration among various agencies providing agricultural services at the local
level in strengthening research/extension/farmer linkages for effective technology
dissemination, and its adoption by smallholder farmers.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3063-ZW)
1. PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project (ACEPP) main objectives
were to enable smallholders to increase the production of food, cash and export
commodities suited to peasant farming, and commercial farmers to diversify into export
and import-substitution products for which they have a comparative advantage. It aimed
at building on experiences gathered from the implementation of the IDA-funded Small
Farm Credit Project (Cr. 1291-ZW), the Bank/IFAD supported National Extension and
Research Project (Ln. 2335) and other donor-funded activities.
2.    To achieve the above objectives, the project had the following six components:
(i)   agricultural credit to smallholders and commercial farmers;
(ii)   a Group Lending Pilot Scheme to promote the use of farmer groups
as credit and marketing channels for smallholders;
(iii)  AFC institutional development including the expansion of its field
activities;
(iv)  expansion and improvement of the cotton processing and storage
facilities;
(v)   strengthening of horticultural post-harvest research; and
(vi)  a horticultural export marketing study and a cotton sub-sector
study.
During implementation, a further component, a Cotton Inputs Credit Scheme, was added
and the horticultural post-harvest research was expanded to include pilot field trials in
communal areas.



-2 -
3.    The above objectives were well-suited to the development strategies of
government and the lending strategies of both the Bank and IFAD which aimed at
facilitating increased agricultural production among both smallholders and large scale
farmers. The activities planned were appropriate to the easing of constraints of credit
availability, particularly to smallholders and increasing the country's food and export
production. The diversification element was particularly novel as it would enable
commercial farmers to move into new, high value export crops as smallholders expanded
production of traditional crops.
4.    Total project cost was estimated at nearly US$ 117 million of which US$ 54.5
million would be in local currency and the remainder US$ 62.4 million would be in
foreign exchange. Nearly one third of the costs or US$ 36.3 million were to be financed
by the Bank. IFAD was to contribute US$ 15 million; BADEA US$ 9.7 million; Japan
US$ 1.8 million; New Zealand US$ 0.2 million; AFC US$ 14.7 million; CMB US$ 7
million; commercial farmers US$ 8.7 million; and GOZ US$ 23.5 million.
5.    The project was not complex but risky given the weak institutional capacity, and
the then existing macro-economic policy framework which was characterized by
producer price controls, monopolistic marketing arrangements, administered interest
rates, and rationing of foreign exchange. The project's implementation placed
considerable strains on the capacity of implementing agencies, particularly AFC and CMB.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The project marginally achieved its objectives. Its principal focus, the provision of
credit to smallholder and commercial farmers, brought mixed results. The main conduit for
smallholder lending was to be through the Agricultural Finance Corporation. In the years
prior to the project, AFC's outreach to smallholders was declining. The project was not
successful in reversing this downward trend. Intermittent droughts, together with high loan
default rates even in good rainfall seasons, led the AFC to reduce its smallholder clientele.
After a promising start, a pilot program involving group lending to smallholders also
contracted after experiencing high default rates. In contrast with the AFC experience, a
cotton inputs credit scheme, implemented by the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe, and
funded under the project, was successful. Partly as a result of this scheme there are now
200,000 smallholder farmers engaged in cotton production as compared with 120,000 when
the project was appraised. Loan recovery rates for the cotton inputs scheme have been
relatively high, both before and after the liberalization of the cotton sub-sector.
7.    Among commercial farmers, project funds for commercial lending were used in the
purchase of farm equipment and transport facilities. Most of the items bought were used for
sustaining existing operations rather than expansion or diversification. The project
therefore assisted in arresting declines in commercial sector production and sustaining or
improving the production of exports like tobacco and cotton and import-substitution crops
like soybean and wheat.



-3 -
8.   Institutionally, the project partially achieved its objectives. Whereas the provision
of transport facilities and manpower development targets were surpassed, the civil works
program was curtailed and even the reduced targets were not met. An appropriate software
package for the management information systems (MIS) for AFC has only been recently
installed and is not yet fully operational. Without it, the organization has experienced
difficulties in processing and disseminating accurate and essential information to facilitate
operational efficiency and management decision-making.
9.   In the policy area, through the eventual liberalization of the cotton sub-sector (to
which the project-financed Cotton Sub-sector Study contributed) which abolished CMB's
monopoly of cotton ginning and marketing, the project achieved its objective of facilitating
a better producer price for cotton. In 1994, CMB's activities were commercialized and a
new company named Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (Cottco) was registered by
government and took over all the assets of CMB. In 1997, Cottco was privatized through a
public offer and listed on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange.
10.   As shown in Table 5, with the exception of the smallholder credit-related operations
and civil works, the project attained and, in some cases, substantially exceeded its SAR
physical targets.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
General Overview
11.   The Bank loan became effective at the beginning of August 1990 and project
implementation immediately got underway. Credit operations planned by the project
were undertaken, procurement of major items of goods and services were completed, and
agreed/revised training and civil works programs were mostly achieved although some
after long delays. Legal covenants set out in the Loan and Project Agreements were
mostly complied with. Disbursements were timely and there were no interruptions in the
flow of the World Bank (WB) loan proceeds. By the end of the project, nearly all the
WB loan had been disbursed. The IFAD loan disbursements were, however, suspended
towards the end of 1996 on account of the deterioration of the quality of AFC's portfolio
to smallholders. However, this did not have a material impact on project operations as,
by then, 99% of the loan had already been drawn down and only SDR 0.1 million was
left. The project was scheduled to terminate on December 31, 1995 but was extended
twice to December 31, 1997 mainly to allow the completion of AFC civil works,
procurement of additional cotton inputs and provision of further TA to AFC to assist
during its restructuring.



-4 -
Factors affecting Project Implementation
12.   The project was implemented in an environment largely different from that
envisaged at appraisal. The following are the major factors which significantly
influenced the course of project implementation
13.   ESAP. The implementation of the Economic and Structural Adjustment Program
(ESAP) was the single most important factor which influenced project implementation.
Launched in 1991, ESAP fundamentally changed the macro-economic environment under
which the project operated. Steps were taken to liberalize the economy, decontrol prices,
eliminate marketing monopolies and enforce tight fiscal and monetary discipline in
government. The immediate impact on the project was to render useless the stop-order
system on which AFC had hitherto relied to ensure loan recovery, particularly from
smallholders. The removal of this system, and AFC's failure to introduce an effective
alternative mechanism further worsened its loan recovery difficulties and arrears. The
liberalization of the cotton sub-sector resulted in CMB losing the cotton marketing and
ginning monopoly by allowing competition from other players. The competition
resulting from the deregulation of the cotton industry put pressure on the CMB to
rationalize and hence it shifted emphasis from expanding ginning capacity, that would
have likely remained idle on completion, to enhancing the quality of its services to the
producers and other clients. The rigorous fiscal discipline imposed by ESAP made it
increasingly difficult for government to give financial assistance or subsidies to
parastatals like AFC and CMB. All these developments had not been foreseen when the
project was appraised. The performance of AFC's credit operations was particularly
affected as the organization failed to quickly respond and adapt to the new circumstances.
In retrospect, the Bank could have been more forceful in prompting the government to
put in place a more friendly policy environment for AFC while encouraging AFC to
examine and try alternative mechanisms which could have helped the organization
mitigate the difficulties caused by the changing macro-economic environment, in the
same way as the CMB did.
14.   Droughts. Two major droughts hit the country during project implementation
seriously affecting the agricultural sector in 1991/92 and 1994/95. The droughts grossly
reduced both crop and livestock production as well as the farmers' ability to repay their
loans to AFC while the need for large scale rescheduling of loans resulted in a reduction
of funds for new loans.
15.   High Inflation. The project was implemented during a period of high inflation
which made operational planning difficult even at farm level as the viability of most
traditional crops and other agricultural activities was threatened.
16.   Liquidity Constraints. AFC experienced constant liquidity problems for
reasons already outlined above. As a result it was not able to utilize project funds as and
when required because it had no funds to pre-finance project operations and later apply
for re-imbursement from the WB and IFAD as expected. CMB's, and later Cottco's



- 5 -
operations were jeopardized by liquidity problems arising from government failure to re-
imburse them for subsidies on lint sales to local spinners at government directed prices.
17.   Government Interventions. Government's commitment to the promotion of a
sustainable agricultural credit system was questionable as its policy towards AFC was
contradictory. While it was keen that AFC lend to smallholders and emerging
commercial farmers, it sometimes intervened to prevent AFC from pursuing loan
defaulters, for example to sell their assets and recover loans. This aggravated AFC's
financial position and undermined credit discipline by re-enforcing a perception among
some borrowers that AFC loans were a handout by the government. The government also
did not allow the AFC to set interest rates at a level that reflecting its loan administration
costs.
Implementation of Individual Components
Credit Operations
18.   The project provided much needed credit financing to the farming community.
Through AFC, project funds totaling US$ 45 million in loans were disbursed. These
funds were particularly valuable to AFC and the farming community as they were made
available during a period when other sources of AFC funding were on the decline and
foreign exchange was scarce.
19. ' Commercial Farmers Sector Lending. Loans totaling US$ 17 million,
marginally more than the SAR estimate of US$ 16.8 million, went to commercial
farmers. Because of the acute shortage of foreign exchange during the late 1980s
commercial farmers could not easily replace their mostly aging farm machinery and
equipment. Demand for project funds was therefore brisk and they were rapidly utilized
because they were available in foreign exchange which made it possible to import new fann
machinery and equipment. Loans were granted to nearly 700 farmers. The farmers
benefited financially on two levels: the AFC loans were disbursed at government controlled
interest rates which were below the market rates (before the AFC was allowed to raise its
interest rates to market levels starting in 1992) and the over-valued exchange rate meant
that, in local currency terms, they were buying the items well below the true cost. Arrears
levels in these loans have been low but increased in 1997 to 20% mainly due to the
Government ban in 1996 on selling farms which were used as securities but also because of
about Z$ 33 million owed to AFC because of litigations with some commercial farmers
over who was to bear the exchange risk for imports under the project.
20.   AFC lending to the emerging commercial farmers declined during project period.
During 1996/97, some 579 loans totaling Z$ 38 million were disbursed which is an
improvement over a low of 376 loans disbursed in 1992/93 (largely because of the drought)
but is lower than 761 loans disbursed in 1990/91 when the project started. The decline is
due to AFC's unwillingness to give new loans to defaulters. There have been high arrears
in this portfolio (Z$ 38 million or 42% of total portfolio as of 30 November 1997) but



-6-
AFC's efforts to sell the assets of the defaulters were not successful because of government
interference.
21.   Smallholders Sector Lending. Loans totaling US$ 28 million went to the
smallholder farmers. This was substantially in excess of the SAR estimate of US$ 23
million and reflects the pent-up demand for financing which existed among this group of
farmers. About US$ 17.4 million went to individual borrowers while US$ 10.6 million
went to groups of farmers for on-lending among themselves. The loans were mainly used
to buy seasonal inputs but other farmers bought farm implements and, particularly in the
south of the country, used the funds to re-stock their cattle herds following the droughts.
22.   There are no separate records indicating the number of loans made and amounts
disbursed to the smallholder category under the project because project funds were
pooled with other loanable resources. Organization-wide, AFC's loan statistics show that
the organization's outreach to this category has declined over the last 10 years. In 1988,
when the project was appraised, AFC was providing 84,000 loans to this category but this
had fallen to around 31,000 by the time project implementation commenced in 1990. The
downward trend generally continued throughout the project life and has fallen to only
8,000 loans in 1997/98. The major reasons for the decline in outreach are AFC's
reluctance to give new loans to clients in arrears and the intermittent droughts which
reduced agricultural activities. Loans totaling Z$ 162 million were disbursed to the
smallholder sub-sector in 1996/97, an increase of 61% in real terms compared to 1990/91
when the project started, as the average size of individual loans has substantially
increased from Z$1,000 to Z$16,000. Lending to this sector was problematic,
characterized by substantial defaults and arrears. AFC's financial data show that after a
promising start during the first two years when arrears were brought down to 16%, loan
recovery from smallholders has been unsatisfactory since the 1992 drought. During the
drought period, loan recovery declined to a low 14% in 1992/93, attaining a high of 55%
in 1996/97, and dramatically plummeting to 21% as of November 30, 1997. Given
AFC's incomplete MIS, these figures may not be entirely accurate but they give an
indication of the difficult loan recovery situation AFC is experiencing with this particular
category of borrowers.
23.   A pilot group lending scheme was introduced and part of the IFAD funds were
channeled through this scheme. After a promising start, when disbursements to groups
peaked in the 1994/5 season and loans were made to 1,452 groups involving nearly
26,000 beneficiaries, approximately half of whom were women, the scheme has since
dramatically declined to below 400 groups currently because of defaults/poor recovery
performance and AFC's more stringent loan appraisal methods. The scheme's failure is



-7 -
mainly attributed to over-rapid expansion and insufficient efforts by AFC to ensure group
cohesion.'
Institutional Support to AFC
24.   Institutional support was provided to AFC in various areas: developing an
appropriate management information systems (MIS); manpower development through
training and TA; assistance in the preparations for AFC's restructuring; the construction
of office and residential accommodation; the provision of vehicles; and portfolio support.
25.   Up-grading the MIS. Lack of qualified and experienced staff in AFC as well as
uncompetitive remuneration packages delayed the development and operation of a well
finctioning MIS. The production of relevant, timely and accurate reports on AFC's
performance has therefore been problematic and a recurrent theme for most Bank
supervision missions. Project support consisted of acquisition of a mainframe computer,
TA and staff training. AFC has selected Globus, a software system widely used by
commercial banks, which was installed organization-wide in 1997 and is expected to
become fully operational by June/July 1998. With this new system in place, the various
management information requirements essential for the professional management of AFC
should be attainable.
26.   Manpower Development: After a slow start, mainly due to the lack of an agreed
training plan as AFC took long to identify the training requirements that the anticipated
transformation to commercial banking would entail, the Japanese grant-financed manpower
development program accelerated in 1996 and 1997. Of the total project expenditure on
training in AFC (approximately US $ 0.8 million), some 70% of the draw down from the
grant took place in 1997. The bulk of the funds was used for courses linked to the
establishment of Agribank, followed by courses in MIS. In total, AFC staff participated in
55 courses overseas and 15 courses locally. The project availed to AFC 32 man-months
(SAR estimate 27 man-months) of short and long-term TA mainly for activities related to
the restructuring of the organization and the MIS.
27.   Office and Residential Accommodation and Vehicles. Originally, the project
was to finance the construction of 16 offices, 16 low density and 64 high density houses.
There was slow progress in implementing this component largely because AFC found the
Bank's procurement procedures cumbersome but also because the organization was
experiencing cashflow problems and difficulties in securing land plots at the Growth Points.
By 1995, only one office and 5 houses had been constructed. AFC revisited its plans and
the targets were reduced to 21 small bank offices and 21 houses. To ease AFC's cashflow
AFC may also have pushed ahead with rapid expansion of the scheme not because of any conviction as to
the merits of the approach, but rather because IFAD's disbursement procedure (allowing the special
account to prefinance expenditure), was more flexible than the Bank's procedures (which required
AFC to prefinace and then claim reimbursement from the account), and so enabled AFC to lend at a
time when its liquidity was poor.



-8 -
problems the Bank agreed to increase the disbursement percentage from 30% to 75%.
However, by the end of the project, only a total of 8 small offices and 11 staff houses were
built. However, the procurement of vehicles and motorcycles progressed smoothly and the
appraisal targets were exceeded. In all, 117 two-wheel drive motor vehicles were bought as
against the appraisal estimate of 31 four-wheel drive units and 55 motorcycles were bought
against the planned estimate of 40 units. The large increase was partly due to the
decentralization of AFC's operations which resulted in the establishment of an additional 22
district offices and a corresponding requirement for vehicles and motor cycles for these
stations. Secondly, 35 vehicles and 10 motor cycles were only purchased in December
1997, at the end of the project, to replace old ones bought earlier in the project as these had
come to the end of their useful lives. The vehicles and motor cycles have assisted in
improving staff mobility for loan appraisal, supervision and other operations.
28.   Portfolio Support. The project, through the credit program, availed to AFC
additional loanable funds at a time when government funding was declining. Largely as a
result of this contribution, AFC's portfolio increased from Z$ 414 million in 1990 to Z$
1,455 million in 1997, a nominal increase of 251% though in real terms a drop of nearly
13%. This is because of a combination of factors including rapid inflation in the
economy; a reduction of resource flows from government for new loans; AFC initially
charging negative interest rates on its lending (this has since been rectified); and the
persistent and mounting defaults particularly among emerging commercial farmers and
smallholders whose recovery rates were as low as only 19% and 21%, respectively, in
November 1997.2 This, compounded by government's failure to compensate AFC for
development sector lending losses and indernifications currently totaling Z$ 250 million,
created liquidity problems for the organization during the project period and made it
increasingly dependent on local market borrowing. Consequently, the predictability of
funding has declined, the cost of funds has increased, financial risk management has
become more difficult and business expansion has been limited. To mitigate this difficult
situation AFC has made commendable efforts in sourcing funds from the money markets,
charging market rates on its lending and introducing effective systems of liquidity
management.
29.   Restructuring of AFC. Although not part of the its original objectives, the project
provided technical and financial assistance to the plans for the restructuring of AFC which
got underway during project implementation. The overriding objective of the restructuring
is to enable AFC to operate viably in a commercial environment by creating a commercial
bank to be known as Agribank. Agribank would take on all the commercially viable loan
portfolio, plus AFC's fixed assets and information technology (IT) activities while the non-
performing loan portfolio including all future subsidized development lending would be
transferred to Ministry of Lands and Agriculture (MOLA) to be managed as a statutory
2The 1997 recoveries were particularly low as farmers reacted to the low maize prices by delaying sales in
the hope of obtaining better prices later in the year but by then the fear of an El Nino-induced drought
in 1998 further led many smallholders to refrain from marketing their stored grain.



-9-
fund. AFC has made extensive preparations for the opening of Agribank including
identifying banking halls and recruiting and training key staff. Although the above proposal
was submitted to GOZ in the second half of 1997, cabinet only approved the proposals in
May 1998. However, two risks have arisen out of the prolonged delay in approving the
proposals: a) some key staff have left for other jobs, and b) recent policy decisions
regarding land re-distribution may render the proposal unworkable and necessitate a return
to the drawing board before the proposals are implemented.
Cotton Sub-sector Development
30.   Cotton Ginning and Storage. This component was substantially restructured
because of the unfolding reforms in the cotton sub-sector. Following the liberalization of
the cotton sub-sector and end the CMB's monopoly of the ginning and marketing
operations, CMB reviewed its operations and decided that it would not need some of the
investments, particularly extra ginning capacity and the civil works (offices, housing
etc.), envisaged under the project. Some of the funds earmarked for these items were re-
allocated for use to build a second de-linting plant. The Bank-funded de-linting plant was
commissioned in 1993 and is producing around 70,000 MT of high quality seed per year,
some of which is exported to neighboring Mozambique, South Africa and Zambia. The
second de-linting plant funded by the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(BADEA) is due to be commissioned in March/April 1998. In addition to the above
physical facilities the project also provided 9 man-months of TA in cotton processing and
marketing, training of CMB staff and cotton farmers, and 39 motor vehicles.
31.   Cotton Inputs Credit Scheme. In the 1995/96 season, loan proceeds amounting
to US$ 1.8 million were re-allocated to fund CMB's (later Cottco's) cotton inputs credit
scheme. Both smallholder and large scale farmers bought inputs under the scheme
which, in the 1996/97 season assisted 81,000 smallholder and 143 large scale farmers
and accounted for 53% of national seed cotton production. Loan recovery has been
satisfactory, exceeding 98% in the first year of the scheme, then dipping to 79% in
1994/95 but has since recovered to 89% during the following two seasons to 1996/97.
The success of the scheme in maintaining high recovery rates, even after the CCZ's
monopoly in seed cotton marketing was removed and farmers could more easily avoid
repaying their loans by selling their produce through CCZ's competitors, shows that
when properly managed, such schemes are a viable alternative mechanism for extending
rural credit. The scheme has been successful because Cottco selects beneficiaries based
on expectations of viable yields (minimum requirement is 600 kg/ha. for the 1997/98
season rising to 1,000 kg/ha for the 1999/2000 season); effective monitoring and follow-
up by Cottco; credit or inputs are disbursed at various stages during the growing season to
minimize risk in bad seasons; and the borrowers have to sell their crop to Cottco which
makes loan recovery easier.
32.   The Cotton Sub-sector Study. A study of the cotton sub-sector aiming at
providing an analytical basis for informed decision-making by the major stakeholders in
the sub-sector was carried out. Among its key findings and recommendations was the



-10-
need to move towards import parity pricing for seed cotton and lint; the need to improve
on cotton inputs delivery system; and to strengthen cotton research and its funding. The
key recommendations of the study were implemented and facilitated the process of the
liberalization of the sub-sector.
Horticultural Research and Development
33.   Institutional Support. Long delays were encountered in building and equipping
the horticultural post-harvest research facilities (including laboratory equipment and cold
storage facilities) largely because of delays by the Ministry of Public Construction and
National Housing (MPCNH) which opted to do the work itself rather than tendering it out
to private contractors. The work on the building, which was supposed to be completed by
1992 did not start till 1995 and was completed in 1996. The use of the building to
support a complete program of post-harvest research was further postponed by delays in
the installation of equipment and electricity which was not completed till January 1998.
The project also provided 3 vehicles (as per SAR target) and 72 man-months of TA (SAR
estimate 36 man-months but extended due to serious staff shortages) to the center. The
TA offered valuable on-the-job training to the research center staff particularly the new
recruits. Several staff also benefited to training supported by the project.
34.   Pilot Horticultural Field Trial Program. A pilot program, aimed at promoting
horticulture among smallholders, was incorporated in the project during the final years of
implementation. It has been received enthusiastically by the farmers. About 7 sites have
been established for the development of orchards and growing onions and other
horticultural crops. These are serving as demonstrations to other nearby farmers while
the program has also encouraged collaboration and strengthening of linkages among
farmers and the various organizations serving rural communities such as Agritex, the
Forestry Commission, AFC, agribusiness, NGOs and church organizations at the local
level.
35.   Horticultural Export Marketing Study. A study on the comparative advantages
of horticulture production and on markets was carried out. The study recommended a
more competitive air freight system. Government used this as a basis to liberalize the air
freight system and allowed more carriers in the business which has resulted in
significantly reducing air cargo tariffs. The study identified potential horticultural
markets in the Far East and the Middle East which some farmers are exploring although
lack of reliable and frequent air cargo space to those countries remains a major constraint.
The study included details of crop models including those for citrus, which the
Horticultural Promotion Council and producers found useful.
Project Costs and Financing
36.   Costs: Actual total project costs are estimated to be US$ 100 million (see Table
8A), 6% less than the appraisal estimate of US$ 117 million. Three main reasons account
for the shortfall in costs: (i) the steady decline in the value of the Zimbabwe dollar from



US$ 1.00 = Z$ 2.00 at appraisal to Z$ 17.00 when the project ended; (ii) the sharp
reduction in the cotton component following CMB's decision not to proceed with the
construction of cotton processing facilities and related civil works; office and residential
accommodation; and iii) the significant reduction of the AFC civil works program. Most
of the funds saved under these activities were re-allocated to the credit program which, as
shown in Table 8A, exceeded the SAR estimate by US$ 12 million or nearly 20%.
37.   Financing: As shown in Table 8B, the World Bank provided US$ 35.9 mnillion,
fractionally less than the appraisal estimate of US$ 36.3 million. IFAD provided SDR
11.9 million (equivalent US$ 17 million) compared to the total loan of SDR 12 million
(US$ 15 million). Following the downsizing of the cotton ginning and storage
component, only US$ 2 million of the BADEA loan (SAR estimate 9.7 million) was
drawn. The Japanese government, by way of grant, provided Y 286 million (equivalent
US$ 2.1 million), substantially less than Y 406 million (US$ 1.8 million at appraisal).
The differences in US$ terms are almost entirely attributable to the strengthening of the
SDR and the Yen against the US$. The remainder of the project financing, around US $
44 million, was provided by GOZ, the implementing agencies and the farmers. The
unutilized funds on the loans and the grant will be canceled.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38.   Overall, project sustainability is uncertain largely because of the doubts
surrounding the future of the credit program which was the main thrust of the project.
39.   The Credit Program. The sustainability of this component is uncertain. Unless
steps are taken to reduce the level of arrears, defaulters are pursued with more vigor
(including the sale of their assets for non-payment), GOZ meets its financial guarantees to
AFC, and AFC bases its lending criteria on viability considerations, the organization's
cashflow will worsen and credit operations will not be sustainable in the medium and
long term. The situation could be worsened by the possible massive default by
commercial farmer clients whose farms have been identified for land re-distribution. The
mitigating factors are that AFC (i) has recently been successfully raising funds on the
money markets; (ii) is charging market rates on its lending to all sectors; (iii) has
instituted a rigorous loan appraisal system which disqualifies defaulters from obtaining
new loans; and (iv) will shortly implement restructuring proposals, recently approved by
the government, which will result in the transfer of the non-viable development portfolio
to MOLA. The government now accepts that there has to be a reassessment of rural
financial services and has embarked on a rural finance study to guide the preparation of
an appropriate policy and institutional framework to promote the development of a viable
rural finance system.
40.  Institutional Support to AFC. The institutional support provided by the project
is sustainable particularly if the restructuring proposals are carried out. The MIS will be



-12-
left in a more capable Agribank with better incentives to recruit and retain competent
staff to operate it.
41.   Cotton Sub-sector Development. The sustainability of the activities financed by
the project in the cotton sub-sector is likely particularly following the privatization of
Cottco. The first de-linting plant is operating viably as a going concern and the second
plant, due to be commissioned shortly, is expected to follow the same path. The inputs
credit scheme has experienced satisfactory loan repayments and has built-in characteristics
to guarantee its continuity. The scheme is also entirely financed by Cottco which is likely
to remain a dominant player in the sub-sector for the foreseeable future thus assuring the
scheme of a steady source of funding.
42.   Horticultural Research and Development. The sustainability of this component
will depend on the adoption a clear mechanism to continue financing the recurrent costs of
the research center. Given GOZ's current budgetary constraints, it is unlikely that it will
continue meeting these costs as and when required. The research center will therefore have
to devise ways and means to raise funds to finance some of its operations.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
43.   The Bank's performance was marginally satisfactory. The project concept and
design were considered both sound and appropriate to the needs of the time but the
introduction of ESAP drastically changed them as well as the operational environment of
the project. The project concept was based on the now-discarded conventional credit
projects which granted lines of credit through parastatals with subsidized loans,
government guarantees covering losses and loan administration costs incurred by the
financial institutions. These projects have largely failed, and perhaps the Bank could
have insisted on a restructuring of the credit component at a much earlier stage as the
faults in the original design became apparent. The Bank could have applied more pressure
to force policy changes aimed at improving the viability of AFC's operations particularly
with respect to loan guarantee system and limitations imposed on AFC with regard to
enforcing penalties on defaulters, which undermined the creation of a sustainable credit
system and the development of a credit culture among AFC's smallholder and indigenous
commercial clients, respectively. Building upon its knowledge of international
experiences of successful credit schemes, the Bank could have taken a more proactive
role in persuading the government and AFC to adopt some of these schemes as pilots to
replace the existing non viable schemes. On the other hand, although a mid-term review
of the project was not done, the Bank was flexible in facilitating a series of adjustments
and modifications to project components and support throughout the life the project,
including a major restructuring in 1995, in response to the changing macro-economic
environment.
44.  In the initial stages of the project, the Bank did not explain adequately its
procurement procedures to officials of the implementing agencies. This led to some



- 13-
procurement delays which were resolved only after a series of workshops were held and
the procedures fully explained. Loan disbursements were generally effected on time and
the project was regularly supervised. In all, 15 supervision missions, most of which
included IFAD staff/consultants, reviewed the project. The quality of the supervision was
generally good both in terms of staff mix as well as the findings and recommendations
that were made which facilitated project implementation. The final supervision mission
was very useful in linking up with the work of the ICR
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
45.   GOZ performance was marginally satisfactory. It met all the legal and financial
covenants with the exception on one relating to the submission of audited financial
reports by DRSS which, even at the time of preparing the ICR, are one year in arrears.
However, government was a set back to the project in four areas: i) it frequently
interfered with AFC's operational decisions and with its efforts to vigorously pursue loan
defaulters and sell their assets where possible; ii) it failed to provide an enabling policy
environment for AFC to operate viably, iii)it failed to honor its financial guarantees to
indemnify AFC's smallholder credit activities, both of which were contributory factors to
the latter's liquidity problems; and iv) there were lengthy delays in re-imbursing CMB for
losses incurred on selling lint to spinners at government-directed prices which were not
commercially viable.
46.   The project's implementation placed considerable strain on the implementing
agencies, particularly AFC and Cottco but internal institutional arrangements that were put
in place enabled the organizations to cope with the demands of the project. The rapidly
changing environment with the liberalization of the economy further complicated the
management tasks. Both institutions coped generally well although lack of co-ordination
by MOLA in the initial years of the project and lack of an appropriate and coherent MIS
system at AFC resulted in failure to always present reliable and accurate data. A major
negative factor regarding AFC's performance was its failure to respond quickly to, and to
implement, recommendations made by successive supervision missions which repeatedly
advised AFC on the need to improve its internal portfolio management systems to enable
its managers to monitor and effectively control its lending operations. DRSS, which
implemented the horticulture component, also perfortned reasonably well although hindered
by delays in completing the civil works on the horticultural research laboratory. In general,
the civil works construction program under the project was not satisfactorily carried out
and, in retrospect, would presumably have been better implemented if all the works had
been carried out by private contractors.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
47.   Overall, largely because of the shortcomings in the credit program and the
horticultural post-harvest component, the project outcome was marginally satisfactory.



-14-
48.   The Credit Program. The credit program helped to provide additional loanable
funds for the smallholder agricultural sector while assisting in the recapitalization of
commercial agriculture at a time of acute shortages of foreign exchange. Commercial
sector loans were over-subscribed and taken up immediately and the required items
imported. The availability of these items, together with other factors such as the
liberalization of marketing and pricing, helped maintain the viability of farming
operations and contributed to increased production levels, during the 1990s, of food crops
like maize, export crops like tobacco and of import substitution crops like wheat and
soybeans. Loan recoveries from this sub-sector have been good and the overall outcome
satisfactory. In the smallholder sub-sector lending, where farmers used the loans
primarily to purchase seasonal inputs in the northern cropping regions and livestock in
the southern regions, the project attained mixed results. The credit line helped borrowers
increase production of traditional food and cash crops and diversify into crops like
tobacco. For example, AFC assistance has played a major role in supporting the growth
of flue-cured tobacco production among smallholder farmers where the number of
growers has grown from almost zero in 1990 to about 3,500 with an average production
of 1,100 kg/hectare in 1997. Preliminary surveys also indicate that the use of purchased
inputs is higher among smallholder borrowers than among non-borrowers while crop
yields are also higher for borrowers, although this will need to be verified by a proper
impact analysis. However, project lending to this category was unsatisfactory in two
critical areas: firstly, project support failed to encourage the development of credit
discipline in smallholders and the emerging commercial farmers - wide spread defaults,
high levels of arrears in this category as well as the collapse of the pilot group scheme are
testimony to that; secondly, the shrinkage in the number of smallholder loans / borrowers
over the project life means that it failed in achieving one of its main goals of increasing
smallholder farmer access to AFC credit.
49.   Cotton Sub-sector Development. Current national seed cotton production
volumes (274,000 MT in 1997) are below the 1988 levels of 300,000 MT tonnes. This is
because although many smallholder farmers have gone into cotton farming, many large
scale farmers have diversified out of cotton into other crops/activities. However, the fact
that so many smallholders have taken to cotton production and, in the process, minimized
the adverse impact on production volumes as a result of large scale farmers'
diversification out of cotton, is a satisfactory and outstanding outcome of this project.
The area under cotton production in the smallholder sector increased from 197,000
hectares in 1991 to 268,000 in 1997 while production from the sector increased from
138,000 tonnes to 198,000 tonnes, and the sector's share of national cotton output rose
from 52% to 71% during the same period. The cotton inputs credit scheme has assisted
smallholders obtain increased yields and higher grades (Table 9/Appendix 3). The
average yields obtained by smallholder farmers utilizing the scheme have gone up to 900
Kgs/ha. compared to the national average of just over 700 Kgs/ha. Cotton production has
become more profitable as the farmers are obtaining higher producer prices as a result of
competition. The project-financed delinting plant is producing high quality cotton seed
with significantly higher germination rates than was produced by the old plant.



- 15 -
50.   Horticultural Research and Development. The delay in completing and
commissioning the post-harvest research laboratory has meant that it has not been
possible to assess its operational effectiveness and value because by the time the project
closed the research center was not yet ready to carry out post-harvest research in
controlled atmospheric conditions, as originally envisaged by the project. Only programs
which do not require controlled atmospheric conditions have been carried out. Failure by
the government to meet financial reporting covenants meant that the surplus loan
proceeds could not be re-allocated to other complementary horticultural activities. On the
other hand, the project carried out a very effective program for short term training that
resulted in skills and knowledge enhancement of HRC staff, facilitated the transfer of
technologies and led to effective links with the private sector and outside research
institutions and scientists. Through pilot field trials, the project refined a program for off-
station trials and demonstrations which have facilitated the dissemination of new
technologies to farmers. The pilot horticultural field trials provide an important lesson in
strengthening research/extension/farmer linkages and in forging collaboration among
various agencies providing agricultural services at the local level.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
51.   AFC has prepared a medium-term Operational Plan consisting of two
components: management and credit. Under the management component, the
organization plans to separate the viable portfolio from the non-performing one with the
former going into the proposed Agribank; restore AFC's liquidity and viability; mobilize
rural financial savings for refinancing rural activities; commercialize smallholder
agriculture; decentralize operations; rationalize staff; and improve the credit management
information system. Under the credit component, AFC plans to have effective and
efficient credit management skills throughout the organization; enhance borrower
understanding of credit; operate along commercial lines in the assessment of credit risks
and levying of interest rates; put in place a credit impact monitoring system for
smallholders; and evolve credit policies and services suitable to smallholder farmers.
Many of these activities are already on-going and are expected to be stepped up following
the recent approval by the government of AFC's restructuring proposals
52.   No Operational Plan was received from Cottco for either the delinting plants or
the Cotton Input Credit Scheme. However, as earlier indicated, the completed delinting
plant is operating viably in a privatized and entirely commercial environment; the second
plant is expected to follow the same path. Regarding the Cotton Inputs Credit Scheme,
Cottco plans to ensure the long term viability of the scheme by gradually increasing the
minimum seed cotton yield a farmer would guarantee before qualifying for credit under
the scheme.



- 16-
53.   DRSS plans to request government to allow the HRC to contract out some of its
services and commercialize some of its activities. This will enable the center to self-
finance part of its operations, particularly the recurrent budget.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
54.   The following are the major lessons drawn from implementing this project.
General
*  There is need to appropriately sequence project interventions. Given the
weak institutional state of AFC and the unfavorable policy environment, the
sequencing of the project interventions should have been such that the
strengthening of institutions and systems and the implementation of
necessary policy reforms, should have taken place before expanding credit
operations.
*  The lesson learned from the pilot horticultural field trials relates to the
importance of collaboration among various agencies that are providing
agricultural services at the local level such as farmers associations, NGOs,
churches, the Forestry Commission, AFC and agribusiness, in strengthening
research/extension/fanner linkages for effective technology dissemination,
and its adoption by smallholder farmers. Some of the research and extension
activities to be supported by the ASMP will build upon these linkages.
For Credit-related Operations
* Strengthening the autonomy of rural financial institutions from government
interference in management and operations is critical for the promotion of a
viable agricultural credit system. It is difficult to create sustainable
smallholder finance operations when operating through financial institutions
lacking autonomy in client selection, loan recovery decisions and other
operational matters because, with government influence, the institutions
invariably have difficulties in selecting viable beneficiaries and to operate on
economic and profitability considerations. High default rates are the
inevitable result. Cottco's input supply credit scheme has succeeded largely
because Cottco is free to select the participants, set criteria for lending and
enforce loan recovery without external interference. The government has
realized that the approach to credit in the smallholder sector proved not to be
sustainable and has begun a reassessment of its entire approach to formal
rural financial services and to other viable alternatives including allowing
AFC to operate as a commercial bank while also seeking to identify more



-17-
innovative ways encouraging sustainable smallholder lending. The on-going
preparations of a rural financial services component of a proposed ASIP will
draw heavily from these new directions.
*  The narrow targeting of agricultural finance clientele weakens the
sustainability of the institutions. More innovative ways of lending to
smallholders and other high risk farmers should be investigated, including the
channeling of credit through intermediaries that provide a range of other
services in rural areas, to encourage competition and increased efficiency
(including minimizing the cost of credit). In this project, commercial farmer
loans could have been easily channeled through several financial institutions in
addition to AFC, including the banks which have better knowledge and
experience in foreign exchange risk management.
*  Government credit guarantee or subsidized schemes which indemnify lending
institutions against all losses discourage the development of viable credit
systems as these organizations bear no risk for such losses and therefore have
little incentive to aggressively pursue loan defaulters. Rather than provide
credit guarantees, there may be scope for the government to reduce the costs
of rural financial operations, including through support in the formation and
training of farmer groups and clubs;
*  The failure of the group lending scheme highlights the dangers of pushing for
rapid increases in group lending when there is insufficient group development
and training. The initial success of the group lending scheme was based on a
cautious approach involving the selection of already existing groups and the
provision of adequate training in credit management but the scheme faltered
when it was rapidly expanded as groups were hastily formed for the purpose
of qualifying for credit without proper training and due regard for group
cohesion. A more gradual approach with effective training of group members
and adequate attention to group cohesion, could have avoided some of the
major problems and the subsequent collapse of the scheme.
* CCZ's system of tranching of disbursements of loans or inputs at various stages
of the growing season provides a useful mechanism for minimizing the risks
and scale of losses if weather conditions, or other critical factors, deteriorate as
the season progresses.



-18 -
1. PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives
Substantia        Paial       Negligible    Not Applicable
(1)             (O)           (1 ))
Macro policies                             E              E              E                M
Sector policies                           El1
Financial objectives                       F7  [I                                        E
Institutional development                  3]            [                  l            E
Physical objectives                          l           [l              E  
Poverty reduction                          El            [f                              El
Gender issues                              O             E              El                G
Other social objectives                   [               E             L                E
Environmental objectives                     ]           [                  l            E
Public sector management                   E             [C              E               [
Private sector development                                                                7 [   [T  En
Other (specify)                           E               E                 ]            E
B. Prjiectsustainabilitv                 Liadey         Unlikely      Uncertain
(1)             ()            (/)
Ol   E    En
HWiI
C. Bank pefonnace                    sati.saGtor     Satisfactorv    Deficien
()              ()            ()
Identification                         K]E                           Il
Preparation assistance                                E
Appraisal                                             E               El[
Supervision                            E              En              E
(marginally satisfactory)



-19 -
Highlv
D. Borrowerperfgrmnance             satisf=       Satisfactorv    Deficin
(e)           (e)          (e)
Preparation                         m            EC             T
Implementation                      D
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)          I            I               m
(marginally satisfactory)
Highly                                         HigLY
E. Assessmnof outcome,            satisfactoly    Satisfactury  Unsatisfactr    unstifato
(marginally unsatisfactory)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose               Year of approval               Status
Preceding operations
1. Rural Afforestation    Forestry Rehabilitation   1983                      Completed. Closed
(Cr 13680-ZW)                                                               03/31/89
2. Small Farmer  Credit   Extending credit to       1983                      Completed.
Project (Cr 1291-ZW)   Smallholders                                        Closed 06/30/88
3. National Agricultural  Strengthen Training,      1984                      Completed.
Extension and         Extension and Research                               Closed 09/30/90
Research              Services
(Ln 23350 -ZW)
Following operations
1. Forestry Resources    Forestry Institutions      1990                      On-going.
Management and        support, timber processing
Development Project    and marketing
(LN. 3179 - ZW)
2. Emergency Drought      Drought recovery          1992                      Completed. Closed
Recovery & Mitigation   assistance                                         03/31/95
(Cr 2399 - ZW)



-20 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned           Date actual!
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary) lv   N/A              N/A
Preparation                                  01/88                01/88
Appraisal                                    05/88                06/88
Negotiations                                  12/88               03/89
Board presentation                            12/88               05/89
Signing                                                           01/90
Effecfiveness
10/89              08/90
Mid-term review
/92                Not done
Project completion                            12/95               12/97
Loan closing                                  12/95               12197
'/ w The project idea was conceived in mid-1987 in the course of the supervision of the IDA -
supported Small Farmer Credit Project (CR 129 1-ZW).
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90  FY91  FY92   FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisa Estimate         1.5    9.5    16.0   27.0    34.5   36.3    -         -       -
Actual                    0      3.6    16.6    18.3    23.3   25.4   28.6   33.2   35.9
Actualas%ofEstimate       0%     38%    104%   68%       68%    70%    -        -       -
Date of final disbursement:  April 1998.



-21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation indicators                    Unit          Estimated   Actual
A. CREDIT COMPONENT
i) Loans Granted
- Large-scale commercial farmers          Numbers          1,600      700
- Individual Smallholder fanners          Numbers        118,000     5285 1
- Group Lending Beneficiaries (Groups)    Numbers          7,500     3199 /
ii) Arrears (% of outstanding portfolio)                   15          35
iii) Civil Works
- Staffhouses                             Numbers       80          11
- Offices                                 Numbers       16          8
iv) Vehicles and Equipment
- 4-WD and 2-WD vehicles                 Numbers       50           117
- Motorcycles                            Numbers       40           55
- New mainframe computers                Numbers        1           1
v) Technical Assistance
- Short-term                              Man-months  3             8
- Long-term                               Man-months  24            24
vi) Training                                 Courses       N/A         70
B. COTTON SUB-SECTOR COMPONENT
i) Civil Works
- Cotton ginnery and ancillaries          Numbers       2           0
ii) Vehicles and Equipment                   Numbers       16          39
iii) Delinting Plant                         Numbers       1           2
iv) Training                                 Man-months  9             9



-22 -
v) Studies                                   Numbers       1            1
vi) Inputs Credit Scheme
- Large Scale Commercial Farmers          Numbers                   143
- Smallholder Farmers                     Numbers                   80000
C. HORTICULTURAL RESEARCH
COMPONENT
i) Civil Works
- Expansion of research building          Numbers       1           1
- Cold storage facilities                 Numbers       2           2
- Controlled research facilities          Numbers       1           1
ii) Vehicles and Equipment
- Pickups                                Numbers       3            3
- 4-DR vehicles                          Numbers        1           0
- Tractors                               Numbers        1           1
iii) Studies                                 Numbers       1            1
iv) Technical Assistance
Long-term                                Man months   36            72
11 1997/98 Cropping season
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Key Operating in                  Estimates                      Actual
SAR/President's Report
NA                           NA



-23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                  at appraisal/redefined             Status           Impact of study
Resulted in the
1. Horticultural         To determine Zimbabwe's            Completed             liberalisation of
Export Marketing    horticultural export potential,                            the export cargo
Study                 possibilities for broadening                             system and
market outlets and to evaluate                          identified new
the country's cost and benefit                          export markets.
position of the industry.
2. Cotton Sub-sector    To provide an analytical basis   Completed                Assisted in the
Study                 for informed decision making                             liberalisation of
to ensure a sound growth of                             the cotton sub-
the cotton sub-sector                                   sector.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M) 3V
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign        Total
costs      costs                  costs      costs
Item
1. Agricultural Credit
- Commercial Farmers              9.5        16.8       26.3        13.3       17.1        30.6
- Communal Fanners  I/           15.2       22.7         37.9      18.1        28.0       46.1
Sub-total                   24.7       39.5        64.2       31.4       45.1        76.7
2. AFC Institutional Development    10.0        4.4        14.4        8.6         3.8       12.4
3. Group Lending Pilot Scheme "1     0.5        0.4         0.9        0.2         0.3        0.5
4. Cotton Ginning and Storage       10.4       14.8        25.2        3.5         4.7        8.2
5. Horticultural Research            0.3        0.6         0.9        0.2         0.5        0.7
6. Agricultural Inputs              -          -           -                       1.8        1.8
Total Base Costs                 45.9        59.7       105.6      N/A         N/A        N/A
7. Contingencies                     8.6        2.7         11.3      N/A        N/A         N/A
Total costs                      54.5        62.4       116.9      43.9        56.2        100.3
1 /  Including funds for group lending
2, Comprises costs of organising and training groups
3 / Including contingencies.



-24 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign     Total        Local       Foreign     Total
costs      costs                   costs        costs
Source
1. IBRD                               36.3       36.3                      35.9       35.9
2. IFAD                               15.0       15.0 /     -              17.0       17.0/l
3. BADEA                               9.7        9.7       -              2.0        2.0
4. Japan                    0.6        1.2        1.8        0.6            1.5        2.1
5. New Zealand.            -           0.2        0.2       -              -          -
6. GOZ                     23.5       -          23.5       16.5           -          16.5
7. AFC                     14.7       -          14.7       10.2           -          10.2
8. CMB/Cottco               7.0       -           7.0        3.3           -           3.3
9. Commercial Farners       8.7       -           8.7       13.3           -           13.3
Total Resources         54.5       62.4        116.9     43.9            56.2       100.3
V' Equivalent SDR 12.05 million
21 Equivalent SDR 11.85 million
Table 8 C: National Smallholder Seed Cotton Production: 1991-1997
Year           Production               Area(ha.)              Yield/ha.
(Tonnes)
1991               137,900               197,000                    700
1992                35,000               183,000                     195
1993              134,500                199,000                    676
1994              110,805                181,150                    612
1995                56,100               179,760                    312
1996               157,584               217,620                    724
1997               197,825               267,500                    740
Source: Central Statistical Office



-25 -
TABLE 8 D: SMALLHOLDER COTTON YIELDS AND QUALITY
1991-97 (Cotton Credit Inputs Scheme)
YEAR                         YIELD (KG/HA)                 GRADES
1990/91                             700                 A           5%
Ass         10%
B          50%
C          30%
D           5%
1991/92                             200                 A           7%
Ass          8%
B          33%
C          50%
D           2%
1996/97                             900                 A           8%
B          62%
C          26%
D           4%
Source: Cotton Company of Zimbabwe
Notes: (1)   Grade Ass has been removed.
(2)   1991/92 was a drought year
(3)   The inputs scheme was initiated in the 1992/93 season



-26 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A: Financial Benefits
Gross Margins               Return/Man Day
(Z$1Ha)                       (Z$)
At Appraisal   ICR Estimate   At Appraisal   ICR Estimate
(1990 Const.                 (1990 Const.
terms)                       terms)
Natural Region 11       98.1          538.0            5.0           8.8
Natural Region 111      41.6          438.0            4.3          7.1
:Cotton
Natural Region 11      173.6           1854.0         3.7           9.8
Natural Region 111     101.7           843.5          3.3           5.2
Groundnut
Natural Region 11      117.2           757.9          3.4           7.8
Natural Region 111      68.4           259.9          5.5           2.9
Sunflowers
Natural Region 11      168.5           270.1         4.5            3.7
Natural Region 111      94.1           178.2          3.9           2.5
Tobacco
Natural region 11     718.7           12923
* Using CPI deflators and 1990 as base year



- 27 -
B. Economic Rate Of Return (ERR)
No ERR re-calculations have been made for poultry and the crops indicated in the SAR because no targeted
borrowing was made for them. Therefore an ERR has been calculated for the delinting plant only.
SAR ESTIMATE         ICR
(/0)       ESTIMATE
(%)
Cotton Delinting Plant  -                   39
Small Poultry           25                  N/A
Wheat                   36                  N/A
Roses                   47                  N/A
Annual Flowers          48                  N/A
Passion Fruit           44                  N/A



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
ZIMABWE
Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project
Agreement      Section     Covenant   Preent        Original       Revised                               Decription of Covenant                                   Comment
Type       Status    fulfillment     fulfiUment
A: LOAN AGREEMENT                             t_ _ _   _dt                                                                           _          _    _ I
3.01 (c) (i)    3               CX                                       The Borrower shall re-tend part of the proceeds of the Loan to AFC and CMB  7hIn compliance
3.01 (c) (iii)   10       C                                        The Borrower shall adopt appropinate procedures to ensure the dlocation of foreign  In compliance
exchange to finance imported inputs under AFC sub-loans
3.02          10          c                                        The Borrower shall procure goods, works and consultant services for Parts D, E and  In compliance
F.. accrding to .. Schedule 7 of the Loan Agreement .. and Schedule 3 of the Project
Agreement
3.04 (a) and    10        C         6/30191         9/30/92        The Borrower shall .. complete the studies referd to in Part Fl (horticulturl  In compliance
(b)                                                                marketing) and F.2 (cotton subsector) respectively not later than Dec. 31, 1990 and                    co
June 30 1990 and funish to the Bank the reports of such studies..
3.05         9            CP         3/31/92                       ..the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank.. by not later than March 31, 1992, a detailed   Only done for the PGLS
assessment.. of overall Project implementation ...
3.06          13          C                                        .. the Borrower shall ensure that producer prices continue to be .. adequate..  In compliance
4.01 (a) and    I         CP                                       The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts [and withdrawals on the basis of  In compliance
I(c) (i)l                                                          statement of expenditures] adequate to reflect.. resources and expenditures in respect
of Parts D, E and F of the Project ...
4.01 (b) (i)    1         C                                        The Borrower shal have the (above) records and accounts, including special Accounts  In compliance
&[(c) (iv)l                                                        B and C [and withdrawals on the basis of statement of expenditurs,u audited.
Ensure that such records and accounts are furnished to the Bank.. not later than 6
months after the end of each year the report of the above audit..
4.02 (a) and (b 2         C                                        .. the Borrower shall take ... actions ... so that AFC shall charge interest rates on its sub  In compliance
least equal to the minimum rate charged on the overdrafts by commercial banks to their
customers, as long as AFC's spread at all times is sufficient to cover AFC's fixed and re
C                                        To this end,... review periodically but at least annually the interest rates and lending ter
AFC's sub loans.
-          -         .              --



Agreement      Section      Covenant   Present       Original        Revised                                Descripfon of Covenant                           r       Comments
J rype     Sbta       fulfillment    fulfillment
_ _ I _ _ L __   __    _ _ I  _ _~~~~~~~~~"                             _ __ ___ __                                                              __
_  _      _       _     _      _I__                date           date        _       _      _      _      _      _      _      _       _      _      _
B: PROJEC AGREEMENT
2.02 (a)      10           C... undertake that ... sub loans, (except those under Part C ... ) will be made in accordance  In compliance
..eferred to in Schedule I 
2.20 (b)      10           C                                         ... cary out Part C in accordance with the implementation program set out in Schedule 2  In complience
2.02 (d) and [(9           C                                         ... make sub loans on terms whereby AFC shall obtain ... rights [and exercise its rights in  In compliance
protect the interest of the Borrower, Bank and AFC ...
2.03          9            C                                         ... procurement of goods and consultant services for Part A, B and C ... according to  In compliance
provisions of Schedule 3 
2.07          1            C                                         Furnish to the Bank preliminary and final reports, by dates shown in Schedule 4, ... of   In compliance
studies on: (i) AFC staff compensation policy; (ii) restructuring of AFC; (iii) training
of AFC staff; (iv) management of loan portfolio; (v) monitoring and evaluation; and
(vi) MIS
3.01 (a)      1            C                                         Maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record Parls A, B and C and   In compliance
each sub loan 
3.01 (b) (1),   5          C                                         Have its records and accounts ... including the Special Account A, audited ... furnish  AFC and CCZ fully
(ii) and (iii)                                                       tot he Bank audited reports not later than six months after the end of each year..  complied. Outstanding
DRSS audits under
_________        _________                            ___________                                                                                  preparation
3.01 (c) (I)    2          CP                                        .with  spect to expendittur... based on statment of expenditures; maintain rcords   AFC and CCZ in
and (iv)                                                             reflecting such expenditures and ensure that such records are included in the annual  complianceDRSS
_______   ________         _________  _________                          audit (r efurred t o above) ...                                           Aaudits outanding
3.02          2            C                                         Take steps ... to protect itself against foreign exchange risks              In compliance
3.03                       CD                                        Take all actions ... to reduce arrears so that arrears related to total outstanding portfolio   Arrears cuiirrently higher
amount to not more than 35% during 19S9/90 ... 25% during 1990/91 .... and 15% for   than 15% but AFC
each subsequent year                                                         taking action to reduce
SWan  C  -      Complie~VdWik                             nCompliaa aftu Dday
NC             t HS Co.Ipw edWII&                                     COaiPth with PuiiaIly
Covemoom_                                                         _                                                                          he
IF -dd             mrewa hbm
3. Foww     d Fmjwttaah
4. c   _l_n
S. MiupeMpmath   dv ag m
X. Evum uv
7.       tuadvokut
9. __-rVi u
10.  olm r     _      -I  r___
13.0w



-30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                Revised              Actual1|
project cycle                                                                        l
Weeks       US$        Weeks       US$      Weeks      US$
Preparation to                      NA                     NA         35.3     87.6
appraisal
Appraisal                           NA                     NA         23.5     61.0
Negotiations through                NA                     NA          6.5     16.6
Board approval
Supervision                         NA                     NA        128.0    261.0
Completion                                                 NA          8.3     11.9
TOTAL                                                              201.7    450.0
11 Including travel costs (Direct Costs only)
NA = Not available not recorded in the FACT system.



-31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Nwnbera                Specialized
Stage of      Month/      of      Days in      staff skills   Performan     Types of
project cycle    year    persons     field       represented     ce rating    problems
Formulation 1      10187    1         5          C
Formulation 2     01/88     1         10         C
Pre-appraisal     03/88     1         5          E
Appraisal         06/88    9          20         A,C,E,F,Soc
Supervision 1     07/90    2          5          E                 S    S    F
Supervision 2      10/90    3         10         C                 S    S    F
Supervision 3     07/91     2         5          E                U    U    F
Supervision 4     03/92    3          10         E,C               S    S    F,P
Supervision 5     07/92    5          10         E,C,P             S    S    F,W
Supervision 6     03/93     4         10         E,C,A             S    S    AC,F,W
Supervision 7     09/93     5         10         A,C,E,P           S    S    F,P
Supervision 8     05/94    4          10         A,E,C,B           S    S    A,F,P
Supervision 9      11/94    6         10         A.C.E.P           S    S    F
Supervision 10    06/95    N/A       N/A         N/A               S    S    N/A
Supervision 11    09/95    3          10         A,C,P            S    S    F
Supervision 12    05/96    3          10         A,C,P             S    S    F,W
Supervision 13     10/96    5         10         A,C,E,F           S    S    F
Supervision 14    06/97    3          10         A,C,P             S    S    AC,F
Supervision 15     10/97    5         15         A,C,E,F,P         S    S    P
Completion Rpt. /   01/98    4        18         C,E,A             -    -
NB:      IFAD Staff/Consultants participated in project appraisal and most of the supervision missions
and in the ICR mission.
Abbreviations:
A=Agric. & Rural Development;        B=Business Management
C=Credit/rural finance               E=Economics
Soc-= Sociology                      AC = Audit;
F  Financial; Procurement (including construction of civil works)
W = Weather (Drought)                 S= Satisfactory;
U=Unsatisfactory
"Carried out by FAOCP.



- 32 -
APPENDIX I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE



- 33 -
AIDE MEMOIRE
CONTENTS
Project Objectives ...........................                                                                            34
Implementation Experience and Results ...........................                                                         35
Factors Affecting Project Implementation ...........................                                                      35
Bank and Bo         rrowe    r Performance ...........................                                                    40
Project Sustainability ...........................                                                                        41
Key Lessons ...........................                                                                                   42
Future Operations ...........................                                                                             43
Next Steps .....                                                                                                           43



- 34 -
APPENDIX 1
ZIMBABWE - Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project
(Ln. 30630 - ZlM and IFAD Ln. 248-ZI)
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.    An FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) mission composed of F. Bitanihirwe
(Investment Officer, Mission Leader), V. Vudzijena (Economist), J. Ruotsi (Credit Specialist),
and S. Hiwa (Agriculturist) worked in Zimbabwe 12 to 30 January 1998 to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above project. The mission worked closely
with Mr. C. Chidawanyika WB Task Manager in charge of the project and held discussions with
officials of the National Economic Planning Commission (NEPC), the Ministry of Lands and
Agriculture (MOLA), the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), the Cotton Company of
Zimbabwe (Cottco), the Commercial Farmers Union (CFU), the Grain Marketing Board (GMB),
the Horticultural Promotion Council (HPC), the Zimbabwe Tobacco Traders Association
(ZTTA) and the Zimbabwe Agricultural Commodity Exchange (ZIMACE). Field visits were
made to Chiredzi, Masvingo, Bulawayo, Bindura, Marondera, Glendale and areas around Harare
during which the mission held discussions with beneficiaries and saw the physical assets
financed by the project.
2.    The mission wishes to express its appreciation to AFC, Cottco and MOLA (DRSS) for
the excellent organization of the field visits and for the efforts made by the three institutions to
compile the needed information.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objectives of the Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project (ACEPP)
were to enable smallholders increase the production of food, cash and export commodities suited
to peasant farming, and commercial farmers to diversify into export and import-substitution
products for which they have a comparative advantage. It aimed at building on experiences
gathered from the implementation of the IDA-funded Small Farm Credit Project as well as the
Bank/IFAD supported National Extension and Research Project and other donor-funded
activities.
4.    To achieve the above objectives, five major activities were planned for financing under
the project: (i) agricultural credit to smallholders and commercial farmers which was by far the
biggest component; (ii) institutional strengthening of AFC and the expansion of its field
activities; (iii) a pilot scheme to promote the use of farmer groups as credit and marketing
channels among smallholders; (iv) expansion and improvement of the cotton processing and



- 35 -
storage facilities including a study on the cotton sub-sector; and (v) strengthening of horticultural
post-harvest research and a study on horticultural export marketing. During implementation, a
further component, Input Supplies to the cotton sub-sector, was added.
5.    The above objectives were well-suited to the development strategies of government and
the lending strategies of both the Bank and IFAD which aimed at facilitating increased
agricultural production among both smallholders and large scale farmers. The activities planned
were appropriate to the easing of constraints of credit availability, particularly to smallholders
and increase the country's food and export production. The diversification element was
particularly novel as it enabled commercial fanners to move into new, high value export crops
such as cut flowers as smallholders expanded production of traditional crops.
Implementation Experience and Results
General
6.    Overall, the project was rated marginally unsatisfactory largely because of the poor
perfomance of the credit operations which were adversely affected by recurrent liquidity
problems at AFC and the mounting arrears particularly in the smallholder and indigenous
commercial farmer portfolio. Some of the activities planned for the Cotton Marketing Board
(CMB) had to be abandoned because of the subsequent liberalization of the cotton sub-sector
which brought in more players and led to the commercialization and eventual privatization of the
CMB. Credit operations planned under the project were substantially achieved, procurement of
major items of goods and services were completed and agreed / revised training and civil works
programs were mostly achieved. All legal covenants were complied with although financial
covenants relating to the submission of audited accounts for the horticultural component were
only routinely complied with after lengthy delays. The project was scheduled to close on 31
December 1995 but was extended twice for a total of two years mainly to allow the completion
of AFC civil works, procurement of additional cotton inputs and provision of further TA to AFC
to assist during its restructuring. The IBRD loan was almost fully disbursed, while over SDR 0.1
million of the IFAD loan was canceled following the latter's suspension of disbursements in
December 1996 on account of the deterioration of the quality of AFC's portfolio to smallholders.
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
7.    Project activities were affected by the following factors:
i) The launching and implementation of the Economic Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP),
not foreseen at appraisal, changed the macro-economic environment under which the project
operated. For example AFC lost the stop-order system thus making loan recovery more difficult.
The cotton sub-sector was liberalized and CMB lost the monopoly for cotton ginning and
marketing. More rigorous fiscal discipline was expected from government which made it more
difficult for it to continue making financial support to AFC;



-36 -
ii)   The 1991/2 and 1994/5 droughts grossly reduced both crop and livestock production as
well as the farmers' ability to repay their loans to AFC;
iii)   Misunderstandings between the Bank and the government Tender Board over the
former's procurement procedures resulted in the slow rate of procurement particularly in the
initial stages of the project;
iv)   Institutional weaknesses among the implementing agencies, particularly AFC;
v)    Liquidity problems in AFC made it difficult for it to pre-finance project operations as
expected;
vi)   Frequent government interventions in AFC's operations, particularly in the field of loan
recovery;
Credit Operations
8.    The project provided, through AFC, credit lines totaling US$ 45 m of which US$ 17 m
went to commercial farmers (in line with the SAR estimate) and US$ 28 m went to smallholder
farmers (SAR estimate US$ 23 m). These funds were particularly valuable to AFC and the farming
community as they were made available during a period when other sources of AFC funding were
on the decline and foreign exchange was scarce.
9.    Funds for lending to commercial farmers, which were available in foreign exchange, were
rapidly utilised as they made possible the import of much needed farm items not available locally.
Over 700 farmers benefited in the form of combine harvesters, tractors, trucks and motorcycles.
Most of the equipment was in replacement of very old ones and was used for sustaining existing
operations. The farmers benefited on two levels: AFC was charging them interest rates which were
below the market rates and the over-valued exchange rate meant that they were buying the items
well below the true cost. Many farmers have acknowledged that the support by the project helped
them make savings on repairs and maintenance, enhance managerial efficiency, increase
operational convenience, reduce internal business risks, and minimise post-harvest losses. Arrears
levels in these loans have been low but increased in 1997 to 20% of the outstanding balance mainly
due to the Government ban in 1996 on selling farms which were used as securities but also because
of about Z$ 33 m owed to AFC because of litigations with some commercial farmers over who was
to bear the exchange risk for imports under the project. Furthermore, high arrears in indigenous
small-scale commercial sector reflect AFC's problems with this client group. A new ireat for loan
recovery in the commercial fann sub-sector lending is looming because loans to the value of nearly
Z$ 210 million are outstanding to clients whose farns have been designated by government for
compulsory acquisition under the land reform program.
10.  In the smallholder lending sub-sector, loans totaling over US$ 12 m went to individual
borrowers while loans totaling US$ 16 m went to groups of farmers. A pilot group lending
scheme was introduced and some of the IFAD funds were channeled through this scheme.



- 37-
Disbursements to groups peaked in the 1994/5 season when loans were disbursed to nearly
26,000 groups but has since dramatically declined because of defaults/poor recovery
performance and AFC's more stringent loan appraisal methods. The bulk of the borrowing was
for seasonal inputs and livestock re-stocking following the disastrous 1991/92 drought which
decimated cattle herds. Project support, among other factors, has contributed to a rise in
productivity for the smallholder beneficiaries some of whom, for example, are now obtaining
yields of 3 to 5 mt per hectare of maize compared to 1.6 mt at the time the project was appraised.
Although no reliable arrears figures are available, there has been substantial loan defaults in the
smallholder and the emerging commercial farmer lending. AFC's latest financial data (30
November 1997) shows a recovery rate of only 21% for smallholders and 19% for the emerging
commercial farmers. Because of better recoveries among commercial farmers, the overall
recovery rate for AFC was 58% which is still substantially below the 85% envisaged at appraisal.
Given AFC's incomplete MIS, these figures may not be entirely accurate but they give an
indication of the difficult loan recovery situation AFC is experiencing.
Institutional Support to AFC
11.   The project institutionally assisted AFC through support in developing an appropriate
management information system (MIS); manpower development and TA including help with
preparations for AFC's restructuring; and the construction of office and residential
accommodation as well as the provision of vehicles.
12.   The development of a well functioning MIS for AFC has been problematic largely because
of the lack of qualified and experienced staff in AFC to design and operate the system. The
production of relevant, timely and accurate reports on AFC's performance has been difficult. In
1997, significant progress was made to finally install one relevant MIS system ("Globus") for the
whole organisation which is expected to be fully operational in June-July, 1998. With this new
system in place, the various management information requirements essential for the professional
management of AFC should be met.
13.   After a slow start due largely to the lack of an agreed training plan, the Japanese grant-
financed AFC manpower development program got under way in 1996 and accelerated in 1997. Of
the total project expenditure on training in AFC (approximately US $ 0.8m), some 70% of the
draw-down from the grant took place in 1997. The bulk of the funds was used for courses linked to
the establishment of Agribank, followed by courses in MIS. In total, AFC staff participated in 55
courses overseas and 15 courses locally in agribank. The project availed to AFC 32 man-months
(SAR estimate 27 man-months) of short and long term TA mainly for activities related to the
restructuring of the organisation and the MIS.
14.   The project supported preparations for AFC's restructuring with both technical advice and
financial resources. Despite the obvious urgency for action, progress in this area has been less than
optimal. Although GOZ authorisation to AFC's restructuring was given in May 1995 and more
than Z$ 40 million spent on preparations, final decisions by cabinet on the establishment of
Agribank and a separate development financing window were not taken by the closing date of



-38 -
ACEPPand, furthermore, recent policy decisions regarding land acquisition for re-distribution
could have a substantial impact on AFC's restructuring plans.
15.   The project did not attain all its appraisal physical targets. According to the original plans,
the project was to finance the construction of 16 offices, 16 low density and 64 high density houses.
By 1995, only one office and 5 houses had been constructed mainly due to factors related to
droughts and AFC's cashflow problems. In 1995 AFC revised its plans and the targets were
reduced to 21 small bank offices and 21 houses but, by the end of the project, only a total of 8
small offices and 11 staff houses were built. On the other hand, the physical targets in the
procurement of vehicles and motorcycles were surpassed with 117 motor vehicles bought as against
the appraisal estimate of 50 units and 55 motorcycles bought against the planned estimate of 40
units. One main frame computer was acquired as planned at appraisal. The vehicles and
motorcycles provided by the project have greatly assisted in improving mobility while the
computer is playing a central role in AFC's efforts to upgrade and improve its MIS.
16.  In financial terms, the project's main support to AFC was to contribute towards providing
additional loanable funds to bolster its portfolio. However, the benefit from this facility has
decreased with time as a result of initially charging negative interest rates on its lending but also
because of the persistent and mounting defaults and arrears among indigenous commercial
farmers and smallholders. This has created a liquidity problem, aggravated by declining resource
flows from government in form of new loanable funds as well as compensations for development
sector lending losses and indemnifications, currently totalling Z$ 250 million. Therefore, during
the project period, AFC has become increasingly dependent on local market borrowing.
Consequently, the predictability of funding has declined, the cost of funds has increased and
financial risk management has become more difficult. In this situation AFC has made
commendable efforts in sourcing of funding from the money market, charging market rates on its
lending and in introducing systems of liquidity management in the corporation. However,
limitations of funding have set limits to AFC's expansion, and the real value of AFC's assets and
portfolio has declined.
Group Lending Pilot Scheme
17.   The project trained 8,000 groups (including repeaters) on the formation, organization,
management, and record-keeping aspects. During the project period, AFC extended over 90,000
loans to the groups under the IFAD-financed Group Lending Scheme sub-component of the
Credit component. However, the value of the training did not have a lasting impact. After initial
implementation success, the recoveries in the scheme rapidly deteriorated, and the scheme outreach
and impact declined significantly in the last years of the project. The concept did not succeed
because the group culture was not well-inculcated in the rural areas and therefore there was no
cohesion and peer pressure among the members as would be expected.
Cotton Ginning and Storage
18.   Following government's decision to liberalize the cotton sub-sector and end the CMB's
monopoly of the ginning and marketing operations, CMB reviewed its operations and decided



- 39 -
that it would not need extra ginning capacity and the civil works (offices, housing etc.) envisaged
under the project. They were therefore dropped from the program; only the 2 de-linting plants
were constructed. One was commissioned in 1993 and is producing around 70,000 mt of high
quality seed per year, some of which is exported to neighbouring Mozambique, S. Africa and
Zambia. The other will be commissioned in March / April 1998.
19.   With project support, a cotton inputs seasonal credit scheme was set up in the 1992/93
season and has assisted more than 75,000 smallholder and about 150 large scale farmers. Loan
recovery under the scheme has been very good, ranging between 80 - 90%, largely because the
borrowers are selected based on expectations of viable yields and they have to sell their crop to
Cottco. The project also provided TA in cotton processing and marketing and training of CMB
staff and cotton farmners. The project also supported the preparation of a study of the cotton sub-
sector. The recommendations of the study contributed to the acceptance of the liberalization of
the sub-sector.
20.  In spite of the above interventions, cotton production volumes are below the 1998 levels
when the project was prepared. At that time, national cotton seed production stood at 300,000 mt
as compared to 274,000 mt in 1997. This is because although many smallholder farmers have
gone into cotton farming, many large scale farmers have diversified out of cotton into other
crops/activities. However, the fact that so many smallholders have taken to cotton production
and, in the process, minimized the adverse impact on production as a result of large scale
farmers' diversification out of cotton, is an outstanding contribution of this project.
Horticultural Research and Development
21.   After lengthy delays, the project-financed the construction and equipping of horticultural
post-harvest research center (including laboratory equipment and cold storage facilities) was
completed in 1997 and awaits commissioning. The project also provided 3 vehicles (met the
SAR target) and 72 man-months of TA (SAR estimate 36 man-months) to the center. The TA
offered valuable on-the-job training to the research center staff particularly the new recruits. A
pilot horticultural field trial program, incorporated in the project during the final years of
implementation and aimed at promoting horticulture among smallholders, has been received
enthusiastically by the fanners. Several farmers are participating in the development of orchards
and growing onions and other horticultural crops. Their fields are serving as demonstrations to
other nearby farmers. A study on the comparative advantage of horticulture production and on
markets was carried out. The study was mainly used by the HPC in sensitizing farmers as to the
financial benefits accruing from horticulture and the potential markets.
22.   The delay in completing and commissioning the post-harvest research laboratory has
meant that it has not been possible to carry out post-harvest research , particularly in controlled
atmospheric conditions, as originally envisaged by the project. Only programs which do not
require controlled atnospheric conditions have been carried out.



-40-
Project Costs and Financing
23.   The calculation of total project costs is yet to be finalized but is expected to be in the
region of US$ 100 m compared with the appraisal estimate of US$ 117 m. Two main reasons
account for the shortfall in costs. (i) The steady decline in the value of the Zimbabwe dollar
which stood at US$ 1.00 = Z$ 2.00 at appraisal but had declined to Z$ 17.00 when the project
ended; and (ii) the sharp reduction in the cotton component following CMB's decision not to
proceed with ginnery construction.
24.   The World Bank provided US$ 35.7 m, fractionally less than the appraisal estimate of
US$ 36.3 m. IFAD provided SDR 11.9 m (equivalent US$ 17 m) compared to the total loan of
SDR 12 m (US$ 15 m). BADEA provided US$ 2.0 m. The Japanese government, by way of a
grant, provided Y 286 m (equivalent US$ 2.1 m), substantially less than Y 406 m (US$ 1.8 m at
the time) agreed. The differences in US$ terms are almost entirely attributable to the
strengthening of the SDR and the Yen against the US$. The unutilised funds on the loans and the
grant will be canceled. The remainder of the project financing, around US $ 44 m, was provided
by GOZ, the implementing agencies and the farmers.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The Bank
25.   The Bank's performance was marginally satisfactory. The project concept was based on a
now discarded approach to targeting credit facilities to smallholder farmers, typically through a
parastatal, involving subsidized interest rates to the borrower, and government guarantees. This
approach has largely failed. The limitations in project design could have been overcome had the
Bank been proactive in initiating a restructuring of the project at an early stage. The Bank also
was unable to influence necessary institutional and policy changes required to improve the
viability of AFC's operations particularly with respect to the limitations put on AFC in making
autonomous decisions in its lending operations. Although a mid-term review of the project was
not undertaken, the project was regularly supervised and the findings and recommendations that
were made facilitated project implementation. The Bank also facilitated a series of adjustments
and modifications in project components and support throughout the life the project, including a
major restructuring in 1995, in response to the changing macro-economic enviromnent.
26.   Loan disbursements were generally effected on time and the project was actively
supervised. In all, 15 supervision missions, most of which included IFAD staff/consultants,
reviewed the project. The quality of the supervision was generally good both in terms of staff
mix as well as the findings and recommendations that were made. The final supervision mission
was extremely useful in linking up with the work of the ICR. However, it would appear that in
the initial stages of the project, the Bank did not explain adequately its procurement procedures
to officials of the implementing agencies. This led to some procurement delays which were
resolved only after a series of workshops were held and the procedures fully explained.



- 41 -
The Borrower
27.   The borrower's performance was also marginally satisfactory. GOZ met all the legal and
financial covenants with the exception on one relating to the submission of audited financial
reports by DRSS which, even now, are in arrears for 2 years. However, GOZ's frequent
interference into AFC's loan recovery operations and failure to honour its financial guarantees to
indemnify AFC's smallholder lending activities were contributing factors to the latter's liquidity
problems which dogged the project.
28.   The implementation of ACEPP placed considerable stains on the capacity of implementing
agencies, particularly AFC and CMB. The rapidly changing environment with the liberalisation of
the economy further complicated the management tasks. Both institutions coped generally well
although lack of co-ordination by MOLA in the initial years of the project and lack of an
appropriate and coherent MIS system at AFC resulted in failure to present reliable and accurate data
of some of project operations. DRSS, which imnplemented the horticulture component, also
performed reasonably well although civil works on the horticultural research laboratory could have
progressed much faster. In general, the civil works construction under the program was not
satisfactorily carried out and could have been better implemented if the works had been carried out
by private contractors.
Project Sustainability
Agricultural Credit Operations
29.   The sustainability of the agricultural credit operations, particularly those of the smallholder
lending portfolio, is in doubt because of the high rates of default. AFC will have to single-
mindedly persevere with its new policy of strictly screening borrowers so that it remains with only
the good ones who borrow and repay. The same risk also applies to the emerging commercial
farmer portfolio. AFC will have to pursue defaulters more vigorously and the intervention by
government in debt collection should be avoided. The sustainability of the commercial farmer
lending operations could be threatened by possible defaults by farmers whose farms have recently
been listed for compulsory acquisition by the government if they are not adequately compensated.
On the other hand, AFC's re-structuring plans are at a very advanced stage; these will result in the
formation of AGRIBANK which will operate on a commercial basis, and the separation of the non-
performing smallholder loan portfolio. These changes are expected to result in a financially
strong institution.
Cotton Ginning and Storage Operations
30.   The investments and activities financed by the project are generally sustainable following
the commercialisation and recent privatisation of the CMB. The de-linting plant is operating viably
and the inputs credit scheme has experienced good loan repayments and has built-in characteristics
to guarantee its continuity.



- 42 -
Horticultural Research and Development
31.   In the present times of limited funds from the fiscus, the main threat to the sustainability of
the activities supported by the project is lack of adequate funding from government in the future.
The research centre will therefore have to devise ways and means of raising its own revenue to
finance some of its operations. Consideration could be given to imposing a small levy on
horticultural exports to finance the centre and to explore possibilities for contract research and
commercialisation of some of its activities.
Key Lessons
32.   The main lessons learned from implementing this project are:
*   the need to appropriately sequence project interventions, particularly in relation to
implementing required policy reforms and strengthening institutional capacity before
major expansion programs are implemented;
*   specific lessons relating to credit are consistent with lessons learned from various
other similar rural finance projects including: (i) the importance of strengthening the
autonomy of the financial institutions as it is difficult to create a sustainable
agricultural credit system when financial institutions are susceptible to government
interference in operational decisions relating to client selection, loan recovery and
interest rates; (ii) the narrow targeting of agricultural finance clientele weakens the
sustainability of the institutions. More innovative ways of lending to smallholders
and other high risk farmers should be investigated, including the channeling of credit
through intermediaries that provide a range of other services in rural areas, to
encourage competition and increased efficiency (including minimizing the cost of
credit); (iii) Government credit guarantee or subsidized schemes which indemnify
lending institutions against all losses discourage the development of viable credit
systems as these organizations bear no risk for such losses and therefore have little
incentive to aggressively pursue loan defaulters. Rather than provide credit
guarantees, there may be scope for the government to reduce the costs of rural
financial operations, including through support in the formation and training of
farmer groups and clubs; (iv) the initial success of the group lending scheme was
based on a cautious approach involving the selection of already established groups
and the provision of adequate training in credit management, but the scheme faltered
when it was rapidly expanded as groups were hastily formed for the purpose of
qualifying for credit without proper training and due regard for group cohesion; (v)
and the CCZ's system of tranching of disbursements of loans or inputs at various
stages of the growing season provides a useful mechanism for minimizing the risks and
scale of losses if weather conditions, or other critical factors, deteriorate as the season
progresses; and



- 43 -
the pilot horticultural field trials provide an important lesson in strengthening
research/extension/farmer linkages and in forging collaboration among various
agencies providing agricultural services at the local level.Most of the lessons drawn
from implementing this project are credit-related:
Future Operations
33.   AFC is preparing an operational plan for future sustenance of the operations financed by the
project, particularly the credit program.
34.   Cottco plan to make the input supplies more viable by gradually increasing the minimum
seed cotton yield a farmer would guarantee before qualifying for the credit. In 1997/98 season, the
benchmark has been set at 600 kg/ha, rising to 1,000 kg / ha in the 1999/2000 season. Cottco will
submit to the mission medium-term budgets for the de-linting plant which show it to be self-
sustaining.
35.   DRSS is planning for the Horticultural Research Centre to generate revenues through
contract services and commercialisation to enable the centre to self-finance part of its operations.
Next Steps
36.   The FAO/CP team will prepare a draft ICR to be forwarded to the WB by the middle of
February 1998. GOZ has promised to have its own observations on the project ready by the end of
February 1998. The Bank will submit the draft ICR to the government by the end of February. The
government's comments are expected by mid-March and the final (grey cover) version of the report
is scheduled to be presented to the Bank's Board at the end of April 1998.



-44 -
LIST OF PERSONS MET BY THE MISSION
1.    G. Sigobodhla, Under-Secretary, Finance and Projects, MOLA
2.    J. Mushonga, Deputy Director, Crops Research, MOLA
3.    G. Manihare, Senior Economist, NEPC
4.    T. Mutunhu, Chief Executive, AFC
5.    N. Zumbika, Deputy General Manager(Development), AFC
6.    A. Kandlela, Chief Economist, AFC
7.    P. Chivere, Inputs Manager, Cottco
8.    R. Dzviti, Manager, De-linting Plant, Cottco
9.    P. Henson (Ms), Chief Executive, HPC
10.   Ndoro, Senior Economist, CFU
11.  I. Goggin, ZIMACE
12.   K. Brown, Deputy Chief Executive, ZTTA
13.   C. Kamba, Marketing Manager, GMB
14.   N. Neguwo,Officer in Charge, Horticultural Research Council
15.   M. Nzima, Head, Horticultural Research Institute



- 45 -
APPENDIX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
GOVERNMENT 'S CONTRIBUTION



-46 -
Table of Contents
Contents                                                                       page
1.0 PREFACE ............48
2.0 EVALUATION SUMMARY .48
2.1 INTRODUCTION: A BRIEF BACKGROUND TO ZIMBABWE'S AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .48
3.0 PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS .49
3.1 EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES .50
4.0 IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES AND RESULTS .50
4.1 GENERAL.50
4.2 AGRICULTURAL CREDIT/LENDiNG OPERATIONS .50
4.3 INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF AFC .51
4.3.1 Civil Works.Si
4.3.2 Vehicles and Equipment.                                                      51
4.3.3 Training.52
4.4 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO COTTCO (CMB) .52
4.5 HORTICULTURAL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT .52
4.5.1I Civil Works52
4.S.2 Vehicles and Equipment .53
4.5.3 Training..53
5A.0 CRITICAL ISSUES .53
6.0 BORROWER/LENDER PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT .54
6.1 LENDER.54
6.2 BoRRowER                                                                          54
7.0 SUSTAINABILTY .54
7.0. Agricultural Finance Corporation.                                             54
7.0.2 Horticultural Research Centre.                                               54
7.0.3 Cotton Company of Zimbabwe .55
8.0 FUTURE PLANS .55
8.0.1 Agricultural Finance Corporation .55
8.0.2 Horticultural Research Centre.                                               55
8.0.3 Cotton Company of Zimbabwe .55
9.0 MAJOR RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................                                 55
10.0 CONCLUSION: LESSONS .56



- 47 -
List of Acronyms
ACEPP                Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project
AFC                 Agricultural Finance Corporation
Cottco              Cotton Company of Zimbabwe
CMB                 Cotton Marketing Board
DR & SS              Department of Research and Specialist Services
ESAP                Economic Structural Adjustment Programme
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOZ                 Government of Zimbabwe
HRC                 Horticultural Research Centre
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Agency
IBRD               International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
IT                 Information Technology
LIME               Loan Impact Monitoring Evaluation
MIS                Management Information System
W B                World Bank



-48 -
1.0 Preface
The Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project (ACEPP) funded by IBRD, IFAD and the
Japanese Grant was targeted at Zimbabwe's Agricultural Sector. The project's three direct
beneficiaries were Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (Cottco,
formerly CMB) and Horticultural Research Centre of DR & SS. The project started in the 1990/1991
agricultural season. Under the ACEP project IBRD, IFAD and the Japanese Government agreed to
finance up to 70% of the total project and the balance was to be financed by GOZ.
The major objectives of the project were to enable smallholder farmers increase the production of
food, cash and export commodities suited to peasant farming, and commercial farmers to diversify
into new export and import-substitution commodities which they can produce at a comparative
advantage. The project sought to achieve its objectives through financing a number of activities which
include the extension, through AFC of short and medium term credit to both smallholder and
commercial farmers, strengthening AFC and Cottco's institutional capacities, and horticultural post-
harvest research at HRC in Marondera.
Initially, the project was meant for completion on 31 December 1995 but was extended twice for a
total of two years up to 31 December 1997. In summary, the DR&SS and Cottco project components
satisfactorily achieved their major objectives and there is a high chance of its ability to sustain itself
into the future. As will be highlighted in the report, the sustainability of the AFC component will
greatly on government's decision regarding AFC's restructuring.
This report has been prepared by GOZ in fulfilment of the project agreement which requires that the
borrower prepares its own ICR within six months after the official closing date of the project. It has
been prepared in accordance with the ACEPP Staff Appraisal Report No. 7446-ZIM of November
1988.
2.0 Evaluation Summary
2.1 Introduction: A Brief Background to Zimbabwe's Agricultural Sector
Agriculture is the backbone of the Zimbabwean economy. This is clearly indicated by the fact that
over 70% of its population lives in rural areas where farming constitutes the major source of
livelihood. It employs over 26% of the economy's labour force. The sector has strong direct and
indirect linkages with other sectors, particularly the manufacturing sector where it provides over 60%
of required raw materials. It contributes, on average, as much as 20% of the economy's GDP and is
among the major foreign exchange earners in the country.
Before independence, the Zimbabwean agricultural sector was dualistic in nature. It was characterised
by a large scale commercial sector and a resource poor smallholder sector. The national research and
extension services and agricultural credit facilities were mainly directed towards the commercial
farming sector to the detriment of the communal and peasant farming sector regardless of the latter's
high economic potential. Land distribution was skewed in favour of a few large scale commercial
farmers who occupied the economy's highly productive land. Approximately the existed 5000 large
scale commercial farmers occupied more than 90% of the economy's productive land and marketed
agricultural output while the majority peasant farmers (approx. 600 000) constituted 10% only. At



-49 -
independence the GOZ with the assistance of some foreign donors instituted policies and projects to
redress this imbalance. These include:
* Land resettlement;
*  Credit, research, extension and marketing reforms;
*  agricultural commodity pricing policies;
*  development of water resources for irrigation and livestock production;
* promotion of research in appropriate technology and into crops suitable for relevant natural
regions.
Ever since independence the agriculture sector particularly the smallholder sub-sector received a lot
of assistance from the donor community. This includes the World Bank's first involvement with
Zimbabwe's agricultural sector in 1982 when it extended, through IDA, a credit facility worth
SDR27.9m under the Small Farmer Credit Project (Loan No. 1291-ZIM). The ACEPP project was
another intervention aimed at promoting the Sector's performance through an all encompassing
approach by providing financial assistance to the sector from peasant farming level through
commercial farming to the institutional strengthening of AFC, Cottco and the Horticultural research
centre in Marondera which are the major agro-based institutions in the country.
3.0 Project Objectives and Components
In aggregate, the project sought to enable smallholder farmers increase the production of food, cash
and export commodities suited to peasant farning, and also to enable commercial farmers exploit
existing and potential comparative advantages and diversify into export and import-substitution
products through alleviating existing financial constraints that hinder new technology adoption by
smallholder and commercial farmers. In order to achieve these objectives the following strategies
were proposed to be financed under the project.
* Provision of short and medium term sub-loans through AFC to Smallholder and commercial
farmers to finance seasonal inputs and services, on-farm developments, the purchase of farm
machinery and equipment;
* Strengthening of the operational capacity of AFC through construction of 16 district offices and
64 staff houses; acquisition of 30 4-WD pick-up vehicles and 40 motor cycles; updating of the
main computer and associated spares, tapes, disks and software; and provision of a 38 man-
months of technical assistance to man the computer system, assist in installation of the new
computer and training in data processing;
* Carrying out a pilot scheme to promote the use of farmer groups as credit and marketing channels
among smallholders;
*  Carrying out a training programme for credit administration, loan assessment and supervision,
commodity assembling, grading and training, group organisation and management and financial
record keeping and provision of technical advisory services, support staff and office supplies;
* Carrying out a study on the cotton sub-sector;
* Institutional capacity strengthening of the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe through the expansion
and improvement of the cotton processing and storage facilities;



- 50 -
* Strengthening of horticultural post-harvest research at HRC in Marondera through the
construction of offices, a laboratory, the installation of coldrooms, purchase of laboratory
equipment, the purchase of three 1-tonne pick-ups, a 4-WD truck and a tractor.
*  A study on horticultural export marketing.
3.1 Evaluation of the Project Objectives
The above objectives were economically feasible, relevant and consistent with GOZ's development
policies and the W/B and IFAD's lending strategies whose aims are to enhance development in the
previously neglected traditional sector of the economy by helping smallholder farmers to speed up
technology adoption and expand agricultural production. The project also contributed significantly to
infrustructural, scientific and institutional development of the country. This enabled the exploitation
of potential comparative advantages leading to increased specialisation, commercialisation, output,
employment, income, food security and poverty alleviation in the economy.
4.0 Implementation Experiences and Results
4.1 General
Overally, the project was satisfactorily implemented although some problems were encountered. The
macroeconomic policy changes introduced in 1991 were not anticipated at project conception and
they reduced the project's effectiveness. Largely, this includes the adoption of ESAP by the
Government which had prolonged effects on the ACEP project. The tight monetary policies under
ESAP coupled with mounting arrears at AFC due to recurrent droughts and the general economic
hardships under ESAP put AFC into recurrent liquidity problems; a factor which led to the suspension
of some loan applications by farmers and or the rescheduling of existing loans. In addition some of
the activities planned by Cottco and AFC had to be re-visited or abandoned due to the general
liberalisation of the agricultural sector and the deregulation of the Cotton industry in particular.
Planned credit operations, procurement of major items and services and revised training and civil
works programs were substantially achieved. All legal covenants were largely complied with . The
project was however twice extended with the extension justified and agreed on by both parties (GOZ
and WB) to allow the completion of AFC civil works, procurement of additional cotton inputs and
provision of further TA to AFC to facilitate its restructuring.
4.2 Agrcultural Credit/Lending Operations
Loan provision significantly fluctuated during the project life from a maximum of 36 742 clients in
1991 to a minimum of 13 939 clients in 1996 agricultural season. While total annual loan grantings
amounted to only Z$180 million in 1990, they acutely rose in nominal terms to Z$230 million in the
third year of the project. By March 1997 loan grantings had risen to Z$875 million in nominal terms
before they marginally fell to Z$791 million in the same year. In real terms this component poorly
performed. While 1600 commercial farmers and 118 000 had been targeted for financing, only 600
commercial farmers and 11 000 smallholders were granted loans. Funds amounting to US$17.1
million were granted towards capital expenditure (farm machinery and equipment; with transport
constituting 80%) by large commercial farmers. Although this granting pattern was at variance with



-51 -
the proposed projections that some of the funds would go towards working capital financing, farmers'
preferences and economic imperatives of the time dictated the tune.
Grantings were not restricted to traditional AFC clients only but to all farmers. The purposes were
however, in line with the project's objectives as most borrowers were in wheat, cotton, beef and
flower production which are export or import-substitution commodities. In the smallholder sector,
approximately 5% of the project funds went towards farm machinery and equipment and the balance
was granted towards seasonal loans for inputs, livestock and other purposes.
Although initially there was slow disbursement of funds due to the limited absorption capacity of the
smallholder farmers, lending volumes surpassed project projections over the years. Whereas prior to
1990 smallholder farmers concentrated on maize production, the project period saw them diversifying
into cotton, sorghum, paprika, tobacco, poultry, piggery and vegetable production. The loan facility
enabled farmers to restock and beef production became the major farming activity in regions four and
five.
4.3 Institutional Strengthening of AFC.
4.3.1 Civil Works
The civil works remained partially incomplete at the end of the project. No construction was
undertaken before 1996 due to liquidity constraints in AFC as the agreement required AFC to use its
resources first and get a reimbursement of 30% of the cost from the project funds. When the World
Bank agreed to increase the disbursement ratio to 75% out of the targeted 16 district offices, 16 low
density and 64 high density houses AFC managed to construct 13 offices and 18 low density houses.
Hitches in stands acquisition at most centres also negatively contributed to the civil work programme.
In the extended period, only 31 structures could be constructed while tenders for 11 other structures
had to be cancelled due to insufficient time left before the project completion date. Most of the funds
under this category had to be reallocated to the credit component where absorption was high.
4.3.2 Vehicles and Equipment
The project originally intended to finance the purchase of 30 pick-up trucks and 40 motor cycles.
AFC, however, managed to procure 117 pick-up vehicles and 55 motor cycles. The increase was a
result of decentralisation of AFC operations. The vehicles greatly improved the mobility of AFC
operations staff and as such improved the corporation's decentralisation process as well as its loan
supervision and outreach.
The project financed the procurement and installation of a new computer mainframe and related ware
intended to enhance the quality and timeliness of data needed for efficient decision making and
portfolio management. This was done between 1993 and 1994; with the development of the new
systems taking another year up to August 1995. Due to resignations, the operation of the new system
was constrained by lack of qualified and experienced staff despite the project's provision of funds for
IT Consultancies. In addition the system was customised for AFC and not based on open systems.
Towards the end of the project, AFC decided to use remaining project funds to buy a new system
suitable for its new banking venture and the decision was aborted because of limited time left. AFC
is, however, still proceeding to acquire the needed Globus banking system using its own resources.



- 52 -
4.3.3 Training
The ACEP project had targeted to finance a 9-man months training under AFC. The Japanese Grant
enabled AFC staff to participate in 57 courses overseas and 15 locally. The overseas training was on
Agribanking and MIS. Consultancies were hired for preparations for the establishment of the
Agribank and in setting up a Loan Impact Monitoring Evaluation(LIME). A Client Consultation and
Beneficiary Assessment, aimed at identifying areas of operation which needed improvement was
carried out and the results adopted by AFC. As a result of this study AFC conducted sensitisation
workshops for its clients on its role and since then AFC changed its crop-packs.
4.4 Institutional Support to Cottco (CMB)
The Cotton Sub-Sector study was successfully carried out and it provided the base-line upon which
the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the project were founded. As regards the training of
personnel in strategic management and organisational management, the project managed to train a
sizeable number of Cottco staff though in one course only.
Due to the liberalisation of the cotton industry which occurred during the project's implementation
period, Cottco subsequently had to review its operations and decided not to invest in extra ginning
capacity and planned civil works. A Delinting Plant worth Z$27.0 million was, however, constructed
to produce better quality seed for the sub-sector. The plant which was commissioned in 1993 has the
capacity to produce 8000 tonnes of high quality planting seed annually and is now self sustaining.
The Project, through Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (Cottco), also provided credit of up to Z$79.9
million between 1992 and 1996 in the form of inputs to smallholder cotton growers and cash
advances to Large Scale Growers. The Project funds were valuable as smallholder growers could
access inputs at low and attractive prices and cash advances to Large Scale farmers were cheaper than
commercial rates. The demand for funds and inputs by farmers was overwhelming and stringent
screening criteria had to be instituted. The number of beneficiaries grew over the project's life from a
paltry 20 000 in the 1992/93 season to 86426 in 1996/97 season.
Cottco Loan recoveries from both Small and Large Scale farmers were good; ranging between 80%-
92% most likely due to careful screening of beneficiaries and more efficient and effective repayment
collection by the company. The Credit Scheme is now self sustaining; with farmers expected to
continue receiving the same benefits in future.
4.5 Horticultural Research Enhancement.
4.5.1 Civil Works
The planned civil works at the Horticultural post-harvest centre in Marondera were completed after a
number of delays. The delay in civil works construction negatively affected the project's
effectiveness as only limited postharvest research which did not need the use of coldrooms could be
conducted.



- 53 -
4.5.2 Vehicles and Equipment
The project had targeted to finance the procurement of 3 pick-ups, 1 4WD and one tractor. Of these,
only one vehicle could not be procured due to bureaucratic problems. The targeted equipment which
includes laboratory equipment, a cold room were financed under the project.
The scope of the horticultural trials in communal areas could not be expanded due to inadequate
funding despite the interest among beneficiaries. The trials are expected to realise tremendous
positive impact in communal areas. Trees however have a long gestation period and farmers need
more time to grasp and implement new skills required in fruit tree management before results can be
assessed.
4.5.3 Training
The Japanese Grant for training was under-utilised and also took off to a slow start due to lack of
counterpart funding and knowledge of the requirements of the financing agreement. More than twelve
off-station trial sites and over ten visits to and from Zimbabwe were financed under the project. This
component can however be described as successful. By the end of the project there was a lot of
activity carried out and farmers benefited from technology transfers.
5.0 Critical Issues
In the Risk Analysis of the Project, while drought had been predicted and provided for, no prediction
or provision for possible Macroeconomic policy changes had been done yet the implementation of
ESAP with its partial liberalisation of the economy dealt a major blow to the project. Problems
encountered included acute Zim dollar devaluation, high and unstable inflation, accelerating interest
rates and increased competition due to increased openness of the economy and more outward looking
policies instituted with ESAP. The tight monetary conditions in 1992/93, resulted in the whole
financial system being hit by liquidity problems resulting in excessively high interest rates. In the
prevailing climate, AFC had to turn down some applications for long term loans due to unavailability
of funds. In addition the deregulation of the financial system resulted in AFC losing some of its good
clients to other financial institutions as farmers no longer realise any difference in cost between
financing through AFC and other institutions.
The 40% ZW dollar depreciation experienced during the project life resulted in the landed prices of
implements being more expensive than originally perceived and farmers were reluctant to accept the
price increases resulting in them shifting towards commercial farmers. The absorption capacity of
smallholder farmers had also been overestimated as it was later realised that their limited land sizes
and fixed capital could not enable them to borrow large amounts.
Further the drought of 1986/87 adversely affected AFC's Credit Operations as many farmers had
already accumulated arrears by the start of the project and were consequently rendered
uncreditworthy. This meant that the targeted 10% yearly average growth rate in credit advances could
not be achieved. As Government funding to AFC was diminishing due to the tightened fiscus, AFC's
resource constraint became more binding especially given the ACEPP financing arrangements which
were on a reimbursement basis.



- 54 -
The Agricultural sector deregulation meant that the Marketing Boards no longer have the legal or
moral obligation to administer AFC's stop order free of charge as they used to do and this increased
smallholder farmers' arrears with AFC and their future uncreditworthiness. This problem was
exacerbated by lack of supportive policy instruments in AFC operations vis-a vis Government. These
include inter alia the order to AFC by the Government not to realise Securities from defaulting
clients, Unhonoured Statutory Guarantees, the linkage of Drought Relief (Grain Loan Scheme) with
Credit, and agricultural output procurement liberalisation.
6.0 Borrower/Lender Performance Assessment
6.1 Lender
The performance of the lenders were satisfactory as they managed to honour most of their
obligations. The IBRD loan was almost fully disbursed although over SDR 0.1 million of the IFAD
loan was cancelled following the latter's suspension of disbursements in December 1996 on account
of the deterioration of the quality of AFC's loan portfolio to smallholders. It would have been
appreciated if the lender had disbursed funds on advance basis rather than operating on a
reimbursement method as this resulted in the project performance dependent much on AFC's liquidity
position. The lenders also set up a supervision team to ensure good progress in the project
implementation process. Lenders were also co-operative with regard to funds disbursement,
documents review and in agreeing to amendments.
6.2 Borrower
GOZ's performance in this project can be rated satisfactory as it was co-operative and supportive
throughout the project life. It considered and endorsed important amendments to the project as
proposed by its implementing agencies and the donors. However, in some instances it failed to honour
its obligations under the indemnification and loan guarantee arrangements in the smallholder sector to
the extend that it ended up owing AFC approximately Z$250 million by the end of the project.
Furthermore government policies and directives on loan recovery worsened AFC's loan portfolio.
7.0 Sustainability
7.1 Agricultural Finance Corporation
Mounting arrears and weak resource base at AFC may jeorpadise the project's future life. It is critical
that AFC resource base to finance the smallholder sector is strengthened in any future restructuring of
the Corporation.
7.2 Horticultural Research Centre
Investnents financed by the project in postharvest research at HRC in Marondera are expected to
sustain themselves. The postharvest facilities at HRC are unique and it is hoped that specialised
services will be provided to the Government and the private sector on a cost recovery basis. A
Research Officer has already been appointed to run the laboratory and the number is expected to



- 55 -
increase in future. Funds will also be sourced from international collaborative research centres to
support the project.
7.3 Cotton Company of Zimbabwe
The Cotton Company of Zimbabwe's Delinting Plant is currently operating viably and is expected to
continue in this healthy state as long as the lint market remains. The Inputs Credit Scheme has
enjoyed good recovery rates over the years and this is expected to continue. Other valuable element
into the scheme to ensure and insure sustainability have also been instituted.
8.0 Future Plans
8.1 Agricultural Finance Corporation
The future sustenance of AFC's Credit Operations depends on Government's decision regarding
AFC's commercialisation proposals. AFC intends to enhance its resource base by operating an
Agribank which will be an independent savings mobilisation institution operating on commercial
basis rather than solely depending on donor and/or Government funding.
8.2 Horticultural Research Centre
The HRC is planning to generate revenues through providing contract services to the private sector.
This will enhance its resource base and help to self-finance its operations. Within the context of
commercialisation of certain Government activities, HRC is expected to gain revenue from increased
exports.
8.3 Cotton Company of Zimbabwe
Cottco intends to increase the viability of its input supplies through gradually increasing the minimum
seed cotton yield a farmer would guarantee before qualifying for credit from the previous benchmark
of 600kg/ha to 1 000kg/ha in the 1999/2000 season.
9.0 Major Recommendations
The major recommendation from this project is that Government policy should be supportive in as far
as the implementation of projects of this kind is concerned. This is especially exhibited by the
negative impact of Government policies and directives on AFC's credit and portfolio management.
In addition, large projects with many implementing agencies and extended impact need strong and
effective co-ordination among implementing agencies e.g. through the establishment of project
steering committees. Where possible, officers in implementing agencies should be trained and get
well informed of any project requirements from time to time throughout the project life.
Mid-term project evaluation is also of paramount importance. This ensures the identification of any
existing problems and their immediate rectification before project performance goes to worse and
irreversible situations.



-56 -
10.0 Conclusion: Lessons
The major lesson from this project is that as long as implementing agencies are left to operate on
commercial basis smallholder finance operation can successfully and viably be implemented. While
smallholder credit facilities are essential for the development of Zimbabwe's rural sub-sector, a
number of issues have to be attended to if noticeable fruits are to be realised. These include:
*  The smallholder beneficiaries should be given adequate and productive farming land in order to
increase their loan absorption capacity.
*  Smallholder absorption capacity can also be enhanced by first financing capital expenditure
before working capital and/or seasonal credit is provided to beneficiaries. This follows from the
complementarity between fixed investments and working capital in the agricultural sector,
especially the smallholder sector which can not easily lease or hire required equipment and
machinery.
*  The implementing agencies should guard against loan default and excessive arrears through
training beneficiaries in credit management and modem farming techniques rather than
concentrating exclusively on mere loan provision.
In addition group lending can be successful as long as there are historical bonds within the groups
(e.g. social, economic, cultural, geographical etc.), otherwise it has been observed that groups formed
merely on the basis of obtaining credit are difficult to enforce for collective loan responsibility.
Strategic interactions within such groups in most cases tend to dominate and break the groups before
loan recovery. The mechanisms for credit delivery by AFC to smallholders therefore needs to be
revised and broadened.



- 57 -
APPENDIX 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
MISCELLANEOUS TABLES



- 58 -
APPENDIX 3
MISCELLANEOUS TABLES
CONTENTS
1. CPI, INFLATION AND EXCHANGE RATES ........................................................                 59
2. AFC: HISTORICAL INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT ................................... 60
3. AFC: HISTORICAL CAPITAL STRUCTURE ....................................                    .................... 61
4. AFC: CASHFLOW  STATEMENTS  (MAR '94-DEC. '97) ............................................... 62
5. AFC: ARREARS BEFORE TRANSFER TO NRSL ........................................................    63
6. AFC: LOAN APPLICATIONS, DISBURSEMENTS AND RECOVERIES ........................ 64
A. LOAN APPLICATIONS .........................................................                      64
B. LOANS DISBURSED ...................... 64
C. LOAN RECOVERY RATES ......................                                                       65
7. COTTCO COTTON INPUTS/CREDIT SCHEME RECOVERY RATE ..............                                  ............... 66
8. SMALLHOLDER COTTON  YIELDS AND QUALITY  1991-97 ....................... ................. 67
9. COMMERCIAL SECTOR EQUIPMENT BY THE PROJECT ........................................ ... 68
10. WHEAT PRODUCTION, IMPORTS AND EXPORTS ........................................................ 69
11. SUMMARY FOR GROSS MARGINS FOR MAJOR CROPS ............................................ 70
12. FINANCIAL & ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE DELINTING PLANT ........................ 71



- 59 -
TABLE 1:       CPI, INFLATION AND EXCHANGE RATES
ALL
YEAR         ITEMS       FOOD       INFLATION          GDP         EXCHANGE
CPI    ITEMS CPI                     DEFLATOR           RATE
1990           100        100          15.5           100             2,6364
1991           123.3       112.6       23.3           124.6           5.0511
1992           175.2       192.7       42.1           93.9            5.4815
1993           223.6      267.4        27.6           185.6           6.9350
1994           273.3      336.8        22.3          284.2            8.3871
1995           335.1      429.3        22.5          307.9            9.1962
1996           406.9      544.8        21.7          402.4            10.8389
1997           483.6      -            18.9          -                14.000
SOURCE: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE



- 60 -
TABLE 2: AFC HISTORICAL INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH (1992 - 1997)
(in Z$ million)
NARRATION                                         1990     1991     1992    1993       1994      1995    1996       1997
TOTAL INCOME                                      50.1     48.7      82.6   182.9    227.9      286.5   380.5       467.0
Less: EXPENDITURE                                   55     64.9      97.3   194.2    209.9      269.4   361.9       457.4
-4.9    -16.2    -14.7   -11.3        18       17.1     18.6       9.6
Less: GROSS BAD DEBTS                             35.9     35.8      42.2    11.2      12.1      35.6    70.3        49.3
OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS)                             31     19.6    -56.9   -22.5        5.9     -18.5   -51.7       -39.7
Schemes indemnification by Government:            50.1     56.4      61.5    28.4      25.1      35.6    70.6        70.1
Schemes deficits                          14.2     20.6      19.3    17.2        13      13.8    17.2        20.8
Schemes bad Debts                         35.9     35.8      42.2    11.2      12.1      21.8    53.4        49.3
SURPLUS                                            9.3      4.4       4.7     4.9        31      17.1     18.6       30.4
RATIOS
1. Return on Equity (/O)                           10        4       4.7     5.4      20.7         7      9.3       12.9
2. Surplus to total income (%/a)                    18        9       5.7     3.2      13.6         6      4.8        6.5
3. Gross bad debts to total income () *            71       73      51.1     6.1       5.3      12.4    18.5        10D.6
4. Interest Cover-times (after indemnification)   10.3      4.8       1.1       1       1.2       1.1       1.1       1.1
5. Interest Cover-times (before Govt Subsidy)                         0.8     0.9         1       0.9      0.8          1
1.0      1.0
6. Interest margin (%)                               -        -        3        9         7         6        6        8.3
* Note
Before deducting bad debts indemnified by Govt in terms of guarantees enshrined in the AFC Act.



-61 -
TABLE 3: AFC: HISTORICAL CAPITAL STRUCTURE
YEAR ENDING 31 MARCH (1992 -1997)
(in Zs million)
1992    1993     1994    1995  1996    1997
Long and Medium Term Loans                              312     487       360     387   324      371
Short Term Loans                                        339     415       593     660   876    1084
651     902      953    1047  1200    1455
Other Assets                                            111      192      193     443   854      667
762    1094     1146    1490  2054    2122
Financed By:-
Long Tern Borrowing                                     346     417       524     551  1167    1348
Short term Borrowing                                    316     567       472     763   687      538
662     984      996    1314  1854    1886
General Reserves                                        100      110      150     176   200      236
762    1094     1146    1490  2054    2122
RATIOS
Gearinge/o                                               76       78       78      76    85       86
Current ratio                                          1.1.1   0.9:1    1.3:1   1.6:1  2.9:1   2.08:1
Bad debt to risk Loan Portfolio (%)                       3        4        5       6    10         7
Weighted Average Cost of Borrowing (%/)                  14       19       19      24    24       21
Return On Equity %                                        5        6       18      11      9       13
Annual Inflation rate (%) (April - March)                         44       23      23    24       21
Annual Growth in Capital Employed           -                     43        5      30    38        3
Annual Growth in Net Worth                                       10       36      17    14        18
Effective Lending Rate f%)
-Commercial                                              18       28       28      32    32       31
-Small Holder                                            18       21       21      22    22       26



- 62 -
TABLE 4: AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
CASHFLOW STATEMENTS (IN Z$OOO)
MARCH 1995 - DECEMBER 1997
Projected
RECEIPTS                                         31.03.95        31.03.96      31.03.97       to 31.12.97
Farming Loans Receipts                               657,789         628,114       880,017          770,458
Fatning Loans Refunds                                (56,856)       (41,338)      (54,808)          (41,879)
Net Farming Loans Receipts                           600,933         586,776       825,209          728,579
Agro Industrial Loans                                 12,681          15,394       28,873              7,283
Govemement Long Term Loans                                 -           2,200             -
Government Short Term Loans                          200,000         130,000       100,000
POSB                                                 140,000         260,000             -          350,000
Money Market S/T Instruments                                -              -                        269,709
Agribonds                                                            216,977             -
AFC Bonds                                                  -         229,326      200,000           204,826
Government Grants                                      9,000           2,000             -
Other Borrowings - Donors                             71,499          42,646        85,500           51,323
Govemment Guarantees                                  15,000          13,000             -             7,571
Interest From Investments                             28,219          56,072        64,871             8,196
Other Receipts                                        17,848          17,486        13,854            17,136
TOTAL RECEIPTS                                     1,095,180       1,571,877    1,318,307          1,644,623
PAYMENTS
Farming Loans:- Current Year                         488,159         549,905       750,394          709,372
Farming Loans:- Broght Forward                         3,542           5,363        12,000           30,013
Total Disbursements to Farmers                       491,701         555,268      762,394           739,385
Agro Industrial Loans                                  4,809           3,746        43,000             3,000
New Business                                                -          2,149        19,000
RBZ Drought Relief                                    25,000          25,000             -
Govemment S/T Loans Repayment                         80,000         251,000       160,000          130,000
POSB Loans Repayments                                 10,000         190,000       150,000          160,000
Money Markets Loans Repayment                              -               -             -          231,000
World Bank Loans Repayments                            2,255          11,286        26,630            17,368
Other Loan Repayments                                 31,007          12,849        19,305           21,510
Interest Payments                                    269,348         257,021      354,482           222,132
Purchase of Assets                                    11,235          11,335        45,172           26,274
Recurrent Expenses                                    76,196          74,989        90,157          102,388
Staff Loans                                            5,708           5,237        19,000           15,174
TOTAL PAYMENTS                                     1,007,259       1,399,880    1,689,140          1,668,231
Net Movement                                          87,921         171,997     (315,276)          (23,608)
Opening Cashbook Balance                              56,083         144,003      316,000               724
CLOSING CASHBOOK BALANCE                             144,003        316,000           724           (22,884)



-63 -
TABLE 5: AFC ARREARS BEFORE TRANSFER TO NRSL AS AT 31 OCTOBER 1997
IN Z$'000 (ACTIVE & NRSL CLIENTS)
SECTOR                             TOTAL O/S   ARREARS  ARREARS AS % AGEING OF ARREARS IN YEARS
LOANS                         OF O/S LOANS           0-1        1-2      2-3     OVER
3
Commercial                           1,469,822,565      326,775,056        22%            52%        15%       14%      20%
Small Scale Commercial                  92,124,348       40,419,501       44%             28%        11%       10%      52%
Resettlement                           113,933,790       63,647,466        56%            28%        31%       6%       35%
Communal                               434,665,366      295,008,885       68%             22%        24%       7%       47%
Marketing Co-operatives                 12,270,430       11,128,716        91%            18%         2%       19%       61%
TOTAL (All Sectors)                  2,122,816,500      736,979,623        35%            36%        20%       10%      34%
Groups (Dev. Sectors)                   94,601,713       70,455,031        74%            41%        57%       2%       0%*
Individual (Dev. Sector)               558,392,222      339,749,536       61%             20%        16%       9%        55%
* Mainly because arrears over 3 years guaranteed by Govemment
have been transferred to the Governement Account.



- 64 -
TABLE 6: AFC LOAN APPLICATIONS, DISBURSEMENTS AND RECOVERIES
A. NUMBERS AND AMOUNTS OF LOANS APPLIED
YEAR        DEV. DIVISION           COM. DIVISION              TOTAL
ENDING
MARCH                                                                           l
No.       Value        No.        Value       No.        Value
Million                Million                 Million
1992/93    30,337        102.2       1,195        456.5  31,532       558.7
1993/94    29,189        185.5       1,098        511.3  30,287       696.8
1994/95    20,511        294.3       1,288        621.7  21,799       916.0
1995/96    17,787        251.4        814         360.0  18,601       611.4
1996/97    25,252        366.6       1,389       1,080.2  26,641      1,446.7
B. AMOUNTS OF LOANS DISBURSED
(ZD '000)
YEAR         COM.             DEVELOPMENT DIVISION                 TOTAL
ENDING       DIVISION                                                 AFC
MARCH
INDIV.        GROUPS    TOTAL
1990/91        149,990       28,338                   28,336        178,326
1991/92        345,617       42,927           -       42,927        388,544
1992/93        247,537       50,072         5,721     55,793        303,330
1993/94        299,900       48,420        29,334     77,754        377,654
1994/95        372,050       53,505        45,677     99,182        471,232
1995/96        533,290       66,643        33,740     100,383       633,673
1996/97        619,220       137,764       25,060     162,824       782,044



-65 -
C. LOAN RECOVERY RATES 1991/2 - 1997/8
Amount Outstanding Amount Due Z$M    Amount Repaid    Recovery Rate
Z$M                                  Z$M
30111/97    Commercial
Indigenous              390.2               265.5             51.2               19%
Non-indigenous          1,107.10            374.8             517                138%
1497.3              640.3            568.2              89%
Development
Group Lending           112                 97.4              18.8               19%
Individual              541.6               419.9            88.8                21%
653.6               517.3             107.6              21%
TOTAL                   2150.9              1157.6           675.8               58%
31/03/97    Commercial
Indigenous              376.4               270.1             103.3              38%
Non-indigenous          913.60              649.4             628.5              97%/a
1290                919.5            731.8              89%
Development
Group Lending           75.4                61.1              31.6               52%
Individual              307.6               178               101.1              57%
383                 239.1             132.7              55%
TOTAL                   1673                1158.6            864.5              58%
31/03/96    Commercial             484.3                484.3            497.5              103%
Development
Group Lending           105.2               45.7              16                 35%
Individual              328.4               63.5             69.9                110%
433.6               109.2            85.9
31/03/95    Development
Group Lending           71.3                30.6             20.3                66%
31/03/94    Development
Group Lending           37.3                10.1             6                   590/0
Individual              248.6               172.6             70.8               41%
285.9               182.7            76.8                42%
31/03/93    Development
Group Lending           12.2                6.7               1.3                19%
Individual              230.6               112.9             15.1               13%
242.8               119.6            16.4                14%
31/03/92    Development
Group Lending           5.4                 1.8               1.1                63%
Individual              140.7               79.7              30                 38%
146.1               81.5             31.1               38%



- 66 -
TABLE 7: COTTON INPUTStCREDIT SCHEME RECOVERY RATE
YEAR             RECOVERY RATE
1992/93                98 
1993/94                92%
1994/95                79 %
1995/96                89%
1996/97                89%



-67 -
TABLE 8: SMALLHOLDER COTTON YIELDS AND QUALrrY
1991-97
YEAR                           YIELD (KG/HA)                  GRADES
1990/91                               500                  A            5%
Ass          10%
B           50%
C           30%
D            5%
1991/92                               200                  A            7%
Ass          8%
B           33%
C           50%
D          .2%
1996/97                               900                  A            8%
B           62%
C           26%
D            4%
Source: Cotton Company of Zimbabwe
Nlote: (1)    Grade Ass has been removed.
(2)    1991/92 was a drought year
(3)    The inputs scheme was initiated in the 1992/93 season



- 68 -
TABLE 9: COMMERCIAL SECTOR EQUIPMENT BY THE PROJECT
ITEM                        QUANTITY    COST (Z$)                  PERCENTAGE
Combine Harvester             36               18 520 425          13.38
Motor Cycles                 134                2 270 915           1.64
Backhoe Loader                 1                  342 928           0.25
Tractor                      103               23 279 653          16.82
Trucks                      460                93 544 270          67.60
Potato Planter                1                    77 899           0.06
Baler                         4                   344 095           0.25
TOTAL                                         138 380 185           100
SOURCE: AFC



-69 -
TABLE 10:  WHEAT PRODUCTION, IMPORTS AND EXPORTS  1990-97
(MT)
|Year   Production   Imports       Exports
1990       325000       37757
1991        300000      60246         2960
1992         70000        -            948
1993       250000      200819
1994       221811       49985
1995         85000     118000         15000
1996       250000      125776         58904
1997       250000       92847          8148
Source: MOLA Statistical Bulletin - March 1997



-70 -
TABLE 11: SUMMARY FOR GROSS MARGINS FOR MAJOR CROPS
Gross Margins                Return/Man Day
(Z$IHa)                         (Z$)
At Appraisal   ICR  Estimate At Appraisal   ICR  Estimate
(1990   const.                (1990  const.
terms)                        terms
Natural Region 11        98.1           520.4             5.0           42.4
Natural Region 111       41.6           423.6             4.3           34.5
Cotton
Natural Region 11       173.6            1793.2         3.7            47.6
Natural Region I11     101.7           815.8            3.3           25.2
Groundnuts
Natural Region 11       117.2             733.0         3.4             37.7
Natural Region 111       68.4            251.6           5.5            14.0
Natural Region 11       168.5              261.2        4.5             18.1
Natural Region 111       94.1              172.4        3.9             11.9
Tobacco
Natural region I11     718.7             83829.8        6.8



TABLE 12: FINANCIAL & ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE DELINTING PLANT
A.  Financial Analysis For The Delinting Plant
z$'000
Year                          1995     1996    1997    1998      1999    2000    2001    2002        2003     2004      2005    2006    2007    2008   2009    2010    2011    2012   2013   2014
Investment:
Delinting Plant     29000
Cost of Sales                27719   50043   38525   38525    38525   38525   38525   38525         38525    38525    38525   38525   38525   38525   38525   38525   38525   38525  38525  38525
Operating Costs               3576    8085    5654    5654       5654    5654    5654    5654        5654     5654      5654    5654    5654    5654    5654    5654    5654    5654   5654   5654
Total Costs         29000    31295   58128   44179   44179   44179   44179   44179   44179    44179    44179    44179   44179   44179   44179  44179   44179   44179  44179  44179  44179
Sales                        37058   70039   54281   54281    54281   54281   54281   54281         54281    54281    54281   54281   54281   54281   54281   54281   54281   54281  54281  54281
Net Sales          -29000     5763    11911   10103   10102    10102   10102    10102   10102       10102    10102    10102   10102   10102   10102   10102   10102   10102   10102  10102  10102
NPV                1714.9
IRR                  32%
B. Economic Analysis for the Delinting Plant
Zs$000
0     1995     1996    1997    1998      1999    2000    2001    2002        2003     2004      2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012   2013   2014
Investment:         27260
Cost of Sales                26056   47040   36214   36214    36214   36214   36214   36214         36214    36214    36214   36214  36214  36214  36214   36214   36214   36214  36214  36214
Operating Costs               3361     7600    5315    5315      5315    5315    5315    5315        5315      5315     5315    5315    5315    5315    5315    5315    5315    5315   5315   5315
Total Costs         27260   29417   54640   41528   41528    41528   41528   41528   41528    41528    41528    41528   41528   41528   41528  41528   41528   41528  41528  41528  415281
Sales                        37085   70039   54281   52425    52425   52425   52425   52425         52425    52425    52425   52425   52425   52425   52425   52425   52425   52425  52425  52425..
Net Sales          -27260   7667.7   15399   10103   10897    10897   10897    10897   10897   10896.7   10897    10897   10897   10897   10897   10897   10897   10897   10897  10897  10S97
NPV                6684.7
IRR                  39%/
Production Trend
1995                     = 7393 tonnes
1996                     = 9 365 tonnes
1997                     = 7500tonmes
Projected annual average    - 7 500 tonnes
Prevailing Commodity Prices (Z$/Tonne)
Year                      Ddiinted seed.
1995                          6000
1996                          7000
1997                          8500
Assumptions:
Although substanial liberalisation has taken place in Zimbabwe since the start of ESAP, the following adjustments have been carried out in doing the economic analysis:
i) A Standard Conversion Factor of 0.94 has been adopted in converting financial values of non tradable commodities into economic values.
ii) The Zimbabwean currency is fully convertible as no more official restrictions apply. Therefore, the Shadow Exchange Rate (SER) has been assumed to be 1.
iii) Due to time constraints, it has not been possible to decompose project cost items into various segments, for instance the labour component, the forex component etc., so for this exercise the labour
component was treated as non tradable item and a conversion factor of 0.94 was applied.
iv) Since the CCZ selling prices are now based on export parity prices, local prices for planting seed have been used as proxy for economic prices.



MAP SECFTI



-  MALAWI                                                             .,
ZAMBIA                                                                  TO.                                            / i                           -
-.                                   ZAMBIA    Mazobuko  rChirundu                                                                     MOZAMBIQLE
Heri
>+  ,/; Hccre  ): .ZfAMBIA                                             !~MkJ  
NAMI\BIA    ZIMBABWE                                                         Korib }           , dJ:.
/                                                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Guruve  C
BOTSWANA    .-.---.                                                                                    Mhongura         . /     e,'0 rGi
.<SOUTH  V ' .                                  .    /                             KaroiW           ^      ,i,          / Mt.DarwiM D
AFRICA                                                                                                            0/tntr
(                                   RafI~~~~~~~~~~ngora ~~~~~~~Bindurao  a
NAMIRBA    ToMolohei                                 /                                      \       CHINHO            Bonket
To Chom.                     o Binga                                                                                       r Treawhey    --
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
v St_  wi f         't '                                         /}              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Darwe   en'ae+~ 
\ VictorRAR
IS            Pails:'                                                                                                           ,,X                                      /      (     .
Hw  -\s Lup ange   '  Kwekwe    v   -   ,  pi  i .,
C) \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\ ,                                                            \                                                               WRUsapeh;  
Dete             Ts\\ \ iX hotsholo
0Lupane                                       Kew
Mvuma                         ~~~~~~~~MUTA1 E    ~ T  e
Tsholotsho               Nymoodhiovo.                          Shuru\wQ
ZIMBABWE -
BULAWAYO  *
MAJOR STATE ROADS                     Plumtree                               )Zvihava
-i--RAILROADS                                                   Figtree
MAJOR RIVERS                       TO 77"                                                                               Jerera,
NATIONAL CAPITAL
*     INTERNATIONALAIRPORT                                                                                                        a
t     OTHER AIRPORTS
0 PROVINCE CAPITALS                 ,N                                                                   Mwenezi
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 /         boi-dcf-'.  colors,
denominations and any
other information shown
on this map  do  not
/    mly, on the part of
ck 2z                                                                       4 0          t  l-          k l \\ ,a</                         8  0   /            iTheo World Bank Group, 
co          KILOMETERS 5                                                                                                                                                         50  100  15  Beitbridge  :ToMopt ss a ogment on the legal  x,
I    I        10        150souso any                                                                                                                 territory,    '
_                      l               l               l                                  i                     Xw__ _ ____ _                                      or any endorsement
.0              MILES  0              50              loo                                                                                                                                      L" ,,-tl TO    /   soura t ;gQrR  \     ooundaries
10                                                                                                  TO ILS     5  15or acceptance of such0
I                  Pretorio ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T,I  R Aboundaries.                                              `1



