Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-A/  3 o 6 3   '07
Report No. 7446-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
APRIL 18, 1989
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency and Equivalent Units
Currency Unit         -          Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$)
US$1.00                          Z$2.00
Z$1.00                =          US$0.50
Abbreviations
AFC     -  Agricultural Finance Corporation
AfDB    -   African Development Bank
AIPC    -   Agricultural Inputs Priority Committee
AMA     -  Agricultural  Marketing Authority
BADEA   -   Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CAFs    -   Communal Area Farmers
CMB     -   Cotton Marketing Board
EEC     -   European Economic Community
GMB     -   Grain Marketing Board
HPC     -   Horticultural Promotion Council
GOZ     -   Government of Zimbabwe
IFAD    -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW     -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MCCDWA  -   Ministry of Community and Cooperative Deve.opment and Womens
Affairs
MLARR   -   Ministrv of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement
MLGRUD  -   Ministry of Local Government and Rural and Urban Development
NFAZ    -   National Farmers Association of Zimbabwe
NGOs    -   Non-Governmental Organizations
ODA     -   Overseas Development Administration
RBZ     -   Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
R & SS  -   Research and Specialized Services
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
AFC & CMB Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
Loan and Project Summary                                                      i-iii
I.  Background ......................................................   1
A.  Salient Economic Features ...................................   1
B. The Agricultural Sector                      ....   1
- Main Characteristics                      .         .         . . 1
-  Objectives, Strategy and Achievements .         ...................   2
-  Agricultural Support Services and Price Policy ...........   3
C.  Bank Strategy and Lending Operations for Zimbabwe Agriculture  7
II. Project-Related Institutions                       ..                      9
A.  Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)              .     .    .      9
-  Organization and Management ..............................        9
- Staffing and Staff Training                   .         .          9
-  Lending Policies, Terms and Procedures ...................  10
-  Financial Performance and Capital Structure ..............   13
B. Cotton Marketing Board (CMB)                    ..                   15
-  Organization, Management and Staffing ....................  15
-  Cotton Ginning and other Post-harvest Facilities .15
-  Financial Performance and Conditions .....................  16
III.  The Project          .... .................................................  18
A.  Project Objectives and RatiLnale for Bank Involvement  ...  18
B. Project Description                        . . .    19
C.  Cost Estimates .       .      ............................................  21
D. Financing Arrangements                       . . .    24
E. Procurement .................................................  25
F. Disbursement                  ................... 26
G.  Role of Women                ......................  27
H.  Environmental Impact               .       ................  28
I. Role of NGOs                  .................... 28
J.  Accounts and Audit .....          . .      ......................  28
IV.  Project Implementation and Management .......................            30
A.  Credit and Group Lending Pilot Scheme .       . .....................  30
-  General Lending Operations         ...................  30
- Arrangements to Make Foreign Exchange Available to Farmers 31
-  Group Lending Pilot Scheme .        ..............................  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



B.  Strengthening AFC Capability ................................ 33
C. Cotton Ginnery and Storage Facilities .......................  33
D.  Horticultural Research .................... 33
E. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation .......* .......................... 34
V.  Benefits, Justification and Risks     .... ................. 35
A.      General .............................................. . . .    35
B. Costs and Benefit Analysis     .................................. 36
C.    Project  Risks  ......... ......................................  39
VI.  Agreements Reached and Recommendations             ..              41
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1
Table   1   Interest Rate Structure
Table   2  AFC Lending Program; 1980-88
Table   3  AFC Actual and Projected Lending Program; 1985/86-1993/94
Table   4   Status of Arrears; 1983-88
Table   5  AFC Income and Expenditure Statements; 1980-88
Table   6  AFC Projected Income and Expenditure Statements; 1989-94
Table   7  AFC Balance Sheet Positions; 1980-88
Table   8  AFC Projected Balance Sheet Positions; 1989-94
Table   9  AFC Source and Application of Funds: 1988-94
Table  10   CMB Income and Expenditure Statements; 1980-88
Table  11   CMB Projected Income and Expenditure Statements; 1989-94
Table  12  CMB Forecast Income and Expenditures Statements: 1989-94
Tabie  13  CMB Balance Sheet Positions; 1980-88
Tab]e  14  CMB Projected Balance Sheet Positions; 1989-94
Table  15  CMB rorecast Balance Sheet; 1988-94
Table  16  CMB Source and Application of Funds; 1988-94
Table  17   Latest Dates for Submitting to the Bank Reports of EEC
Technical Assistance and Consultancies to AFC
ANNEX 2           Terms of Reference for Horticultural Export Marketing and
Cotton Subsector Studies
ANNEX 3
Table   1   Project Cost Breakdown of Summary Accounts
Table   2   Detailed Costs: Credit Fund
Table   3       n       n  Group Lending Pilot Scheme
Table   4       n       n  AFC Institutional Development
Table   5       n       n  Ginnery Civil Works
Table   6       n       n  Gin Plant
Table   7       n           Ginning Vehicles & Equipment
Table   8       n           Lint Storage, Workshop, and Cotton Sector
Study
Table   9       n       n  Horticultural Research
Table  10   Summary of Accounts by Year
Table  11   Financing Plan
Table  12   Estimated Disbur3ement Schedule



ANNEX 4           Group Lending Pilot Scheme; Implementation Guidelines
ANNEX 5
Table   1   Crop Budget; Maize
Table   2                Cotton
Table   3                Soyabeans
Table   4                Groundnuts
Table   5                Sunflower
Table   6                Smallholder Tobacco
Table   7   Financial Analysis: Smallholder Poultry
Table   8   Economic Analysis :    
Table   9   Financial Analysis: Wheat
Table  10   Economic Analysis : Wheat
Table  11   Financial Analysis:  Roses
Tabls  12   Economic Analysis : Roses
Table  13   Financial Analysist Annual Flowers
Table  14   Economic Analysis s             n
Table  15   Economic Analysis : Passion Fruit
Table  16   Financial Analysis:             n
Table  17   Financial Analysis:  Ginnery Component
Table  18   Economic Analysis : Ginnery Component
ANNEX 6           Terms of Reference for Indepth Hid-term Review
ANNEX 7           Project File Papers
CHART        1   APC Organization Structure: Head Office
2    AFC Organization Stricture: Field Offices
3    CMB Organization Structure
4    Implementation Schedule for Cotton Ginning Facilities
MAPS
IBRD No. 15907R
IBRD No. 17028



- i -
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                : Zimbab-se
Beneficiaries           : Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC); Cotton
Marketing Board (CMB), and Ministry of Lands,
Agriculture and Rural Resettlement (MLARR).
Amount                  s US$36.3 million
Terms                   : Bank standard variable interest rate, 20-year
maturity, including 5-year grace period.
Proiect Obiectives      : The project would seek to enable smallholders to
increase production of food, cash, and export
crops suited to peasant farming; and commercial
farmers to diversify into export and import-
substitution commodities for which they have
comparative advantage. It would also aim at
strengthening AFC's institutional capacity and
encouraging the adoption of appropriate price
policy for cotton.
Proiect Description    s The project would finance incremental
agricultural credit for smallholders and
commercial farmers; strengthening of AFC's
institutional capacity and field facilities; a
pilot scheme to promote thp use of farmer groups,
many of which would consist of women, as channels
for credit, storage and input supply; cotton
processing and storage facilities; horticultural
research; and horticultural marketing and cotton
subsector studies.
Benefits                s Although it is not possible to quantify increased
production, the project is expected to
significantly increase production of food, cash,
expert and import-substitution commodities. It
woule thus enhance the country's food security
and export earnings, and improve rural incomes.
It would also strengthen agricultural credit
delivery and recovery syste¶ under AFC, and help
to improve the marketing and input supply system
by promoting the use of farmer organizations in
these regards. Furthermore, the project would
help to ease fiscal burden by reducing budgetary
subvention to AFC and eliminating CMB losses.



- ii -
Proiect Risks            s Apart from the impact of recurrent droughts,
AFC's abilily to provide credit services may be
adversely affected by failure to rigorously
implement measures to reduce arrears, and
slackening of loan evaluation standards in the
attempt to quickly reach a larger number of
smallholders. The project would seek to minimize
these risks by ensuring adoption of sound loan
appraisal procedures, strengthening AFC
capability to improve services to all farmers.
and by providing for an indepth mid-term review
to assess the need for and recommend corrective
actions as may be necessary. For the cotton
component, the main risk is that the political
will may not be strong enough to adopt
appropriate domestic cotton prices. The project
would address this risk by conditioning the
disbursement of funds for this component on the
adoption of measures to eliminate CMB losses.



- iii -
Proiect Cost Summary:
Local     Foreign   Total
-US$'M----------
Agricultural Credit
Commercial Farmers                            9.5     16.8      26.3
Smallholders 1/                              15.2     22.7      37.9
24.7     39.5      64.2
AFC Institutional Development                      10.0       4.4     14.4
Group Lending Pilot Scheme 2/                       0.5       0.4      0.9
Cotton Ginning and Storage                         10.4      14.8     25.2
Horticultural Research                              0.3       0.6      0.9
Base Costs                                   45.9     59.7    105.6
Contingencies                                       8.6       2.7     11.3
Total Costs                                 54.5      62.4    116.9
Taxes and Duties                                   (2.4)    -         (2.2)
Project cost (exc. taxes and duties)               52.3      62.4    114.7
FinancinR Plan:
IBRD                                          -       36.3      36.3
IFAD                                                  15.0      15.0
BADEA                                         -        9.7       9.7
Japan                                         0.6      1.2       1.8
New Zealand                                   -        0.2       0.2
GOZ 3/                                      23.5       -        23.5
CMB                                           7.0      -         7.0
AFC                                          14.7      -        14.7
Farmers                                      8.7       -         8.7
4.5      62.4    116.9
/  Including funds for group lending.
2/  Comprises costs of organizing and training group members.
3/  Including taxes and duties estimated at US$2.2 million.
Estimated Disbursements (USS million)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94    FY95
Annual             1.5    8.0      6.5    11.0    7.5       1.8
Cumulative         1.5    9.5    16.0    27.0   34.5    36.3
Economic Rate of Return:
-   Total Project                s  Not applicable
-   Credit sub-loans             s  Ranges from 25Z to 481
-   Cotton ginning Component   s   27X
Maps:       IBRD 15907R
IBRD 17028



7IMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Salient Economic Features
1.01     Zimbabwe is a land-locked country of some 390,000 sq.km, with a
population of about 8.7 million, growing at 3.42 per annum and nearly two-
thirds of which is rural. Although the average per capita GDP at US$680 is
high compared to that of many developing countries, its distribution is
extremely uneven. One of the major challenges facing the country is how to
redress this imbalance while sustaining overall economic growth. The
economy is fairly diversified, with the service sector accounting for about
542 of GDP, agriculture for about 14?, manufacturing for about 23.52,
mining for about 72, and construction 1.5Z. The country has a wide range
of exports comprising agricultural, manufactured and mineral commodities; a
well-established economic infrastructure; and is basically self-sufficient
in staple foodstuffs while it obtains most of its energy requirements from
domestic sources. However, the economy has been marked by sharp cyclical
fluctuations since the turn of the decade, reflecting the impact of
recurrent droughts on agriculture.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Main Characteristics
1.02      Although it accounts for only 14? of GDP, agriculture is the
backbone of the Zimbabwean economy, directly supporting more than two-
thirds of the population and contributing about 41? to exports. About 85?
of the country's land is suitable for agriculture and ecological
conditions allow production of a wide range of agricultural commodities.
The country falls into five agro-ecological zones (Natural Regions",
delineated by the amount and regularity of rainfall and thus marked by
highly varying agricultural potential and risks. Maize is the most
important commodity in terms of food security and domestically marketed
produce, while tobacco, followed by cotton, dominates agricultural export.
The other major commodities are sugar, wheat, coffee, tea, groundnuts,
soyabeans, sunflower seeds, and sorghum. Once wholly dependent on imports,
Zimbabwe now produces about two-thirds of its wheat consumption, but
production is viable only under irrigation. The country also has
appreciable potential for expanding horticultural products both for
domestic and export markets. During the past two decades, these products
have expanded steadily and now account for about 9? of the total
agricultural production. In addition, livestock, especially cattle, are an
important source of farm income and draft power for many farmers.



- 2 -
1.03     Largely because of past socio-political policies, Zimbabwe's
agriculture is acutely dualistic. At one extreme is the smallholder
farming system, involving 800,000 families, or 94Z of the total farm
households, known as the Communal Area Farmers (CAFs).  Akin to CAFs and,
therefore, falling under the same system, are some 40,000 farmers recently
resettled into formerly commercial farming areas. The system occupies
about 49? of the arable land, located mostly in the ecologically low-yield
and high-risk areas, with poorly developed infrastructure and subject to
high population pressure and serious lana degradation. Production is
primarily for subsistence purposes, using mostly hand tools and few of
modern inputs. Land tenure is based on customary individual-user rights
for cropped land, and on communal-user rights for grazing land. Before
independence eight years ago, agricultural support services paid little
attention to the needs of CAFs. Partly due to that fact, the system is
characterized by low productivity and incomes, estimated at Z$ 900 per
household, and accounts for only 35Z of agricultural gross domestic
production. In additicn to land shortage and poor ecological conditions,
the main constraints immediately facing the smallholder system include
limited technological packages, inadequate financial means to take full
advantage of the available technologies, inherently high costs of obtaining
agricultural support services, and operational conditions that engender a
high degree of risk aversion.
1.04     At the other extreme is the large-scale commercial farming system,
comprising 4,000 farmers, or 0.5? of the total farm households, occupying
nearly 39? of arable land, under freehold tenure rights, and situated
mostly in the ecologically high potential zones. The system operates at a
fairly high level of technology, using a full range of farm machinery and
modern inputs and, until independence, enjoyed the bulk of the agricultural
support services. It has thus achieved levels of productivitv and incomes
comparable to those found in the developed countries. In between the
smallholder and large-scale commercial farming systems is the small-scale
commercial system, involving some 8,500 farmers. The commercial farming
system as a whole accounts for about 65? of agricultural gross domestic
production. The main constraints now facing this system stem from
inadequate foreign exchange to finance imported capital and recurrent
inputs upon which the system critically depends; and credit for new
ventures, such as horticulture.
Objectives, Strategy and Achievements
1.05     The national agricultural development objectives aim at ensuring
food security, increasing export earnings, and raising living standards in
the rural areas in general and among the smallholders in particular. The
strategy to these ends is, therefore, predicated on the attainment of a
sustainable balance between growth and distributional goals. While
recognizing that, for years to come, commercial farmers would continue to
play a crucial role in the production of all the main commodities,
including staple foodstuffs, the strategy seeks to promote increased
production by smallholders of the crops well suited to peasant farming,
while encouraging commercial farmers to diversify into new export and
import-substitution crops that require relatively high levels of capital
investments and marnagement skills. For smallholders, such crops include
staple food grains, cotton, legumes, and oilseeds; for commercial farmers,
they include particularly wheat and horticultural products.



1.06     Zimbabwe's agriculture has made remarkable progress towards
achieving the above objectives. During 1980-86, the sector grew at an
average of 42 p.a. in real terms, and agricultural exports at 4.3Z p.a.
The production of staple food grairn has generally exceeded domestic needs,
with maize stocks reaching 1.8 mili:jn tons in 1986 which is equivalent to
two-year domestic consumption needs. Equally impressive has been the
performance of the smallholders as they increased their contribution to the
total agricultural production from 152 to 352, to marketed maize from 10X
to 402, and to cotton production from 72 to 532 during the period. The
sector's achievements attest to the effectiveness of the measures taken by
the Government to alleviate the major constraints on production. For the
sector as a whole, these measures have included maintaining generally
attractive producer prices and generous allocation of foreign exchange
resources relative to other sectors. Specific to smallholders, the
measures have focussed on: raising productivity by developing and
disseminating technological packages relevant to the communal areas farming
system, coupled with better access to credit; reducing marketing costs by
improving feeder roads and bringing marketing centres closer to the
producing areas; and minimizing financial risks by providing assured market
outlets and stable producer prices.  While the above measures have
considerably alleviated some of the major constraints on agriculture, more
efforts are needed to improve the quality and coverage of agricultural
support services and to ensure a sound price policy.
Agricultural Support Services and Price Policy
1.07     Research and Extension Services:  With assistance from the on-
going IFAD-Bank supported Research and Extension Projects, the Ministry of
Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement (MLARR) through its department of
Research and Specialized Services (R & SS) and department of Agricultural,
Technical and Extension Services (Agritex), is continuing to develop and
disseminate technological packages specific to smallholder farming system
and consistent with the resources at the disposal of farm households.
However, a major gap remains unattended regarding post-harvest research to
support expanded cultivation of horticultural products for export markets.
The proposed project would aim at filling this gap.
1.08     Marketing and Input SUpply:  While the input supply system is
virtually wholly under private hands, the marketing system remains heavily
dependent on parastatals for all the major crops except tobacco. The
important agricultural marketing agencies are the Grain Marketing Board
(GMB) mainly for all grains and legumes; the Cotton Marketing Board (CMB)
for seed cotton and lint; the Dairy Marketing Board (DMB) for dairy
products; and the Cold Storage Commission (CSC) notably for beef. These
agencies were originally created to serve the commercial farmers but, since
independence, they have had to expand their facilities and services into
Communal Areas. Although these agencies have hitherto handled the available
marketable surpluses fairly efficiently, including bumper harvests, it is
unlikely that they will continue to perform equally well in years to come
when higher levels of agricultural development in the Communal l.reas may
call for a much more dynamic and innovative marketing system than is
possible under the present monopolistic structure. On the other hand,
proposals to open the marketing system to private traders have proven
difficult to implement, mainly because the sharp duality of Zimbabwe's



- 4 -
agriculture has given grounds to the apprehensions that private traders
would, for an indeterminate period, focus on commercial farming areas where
marketing costs are generally lower, or substantially reduce prices offered
to most of the communal area farmers, thus once again marginalizing
communal areas and frustrating the national objective to raise living
standards Among smallht'lders. The issue of the structure of the marketing
system is inter-twined with the price policy as well as with othe sectoral
and macro-economic issues, all of which call for properly sequenced
adjustments.
1.09     At prex.ent, measures to improve the agricultural marketing system
have focussed on strengthening the role of cooperatives. The number of
cooperatives has risen steadily and they now cover about 100,000 CAFs. The
count;.y also has thousands of informal farmer groups, estimated to cover
about 40Z of smallholders, which have emerged spontaneously and provide a
wide range of services, including marketing and input supply to their
members. While these farmer organizations offer great potential, they have
generally remained weak largely due to poor management and limited
resources. Implementation of the recommendations of a subsector study
recently carried out by the Bank ir expected to help improve efficiency
among cooperatives. (The work was jointly undertaken by a task force set
up by the Government with support from the Bank drawn from cooperative
specialists. The report was issued in February 1989). Partly to support
the implementation of the study's recommendations, the proposed project
would include a pilot scheme to develop practical ways of enhancing the
performance of both the cooperative and informal farmer groups as
alternative channels not only for marketing and input supply but also for
agricultural credit.
1.10     As noted above, the country has good scope for expanding the
production of horticultural commodities. To encourage increased
production, a non-governmental agency, the Horticultural Promotion Council
(HPC), was created in 1986 to encourage the maintenance of high quality
standards, coordinate market research, collect and disseminate market
intelligence, and organize export promotion activities. In addition, firm
trading links have been forged with major horticultural importers in the
Netherlands, and appropriate actions have been taken to ensure availability
of air-cargo space. While fruits exports have stagnated mainly due ..o
transport difficulties through the southern route to the sea, flower
exports have risen sharply from 300 tons in 1985 to 2700 tons in 1987. The
prospects of expanding exports to Europe through the Dutch connection are
bright. However, there is an urgent need to explore the possibilities of
increasing exports not only in Europe but also in North America, the Middle
East and Japan; and to formulate a systematic strategy to exploit the
available potential. To these ends, the proposed project would finance a
study along the terms of reference broadly set out in Annex 2. At
negotiations, assurance was obtained that the study would be carried out,
completed and the report submitted to the Bank for comments not later than
December 31, 1990 (para 6.03 lc]).
1.11     Price Policy:  Producer prices for some of the major crops (Table
1.1) are set by the Government and, as a matter of general policy, are
reviewed and adjusted periodically with a view to ensuring adequate
incentives. The maintenance of the prices of these crops at attractive



- 5 -
levels is one of the main factors that havo contributed to the substantial
rise in production especially among smallholders, thereby ensuring food
security, increasing exports, and improving living standards in rural
areas. Producer prices have also been progressively brought closer to
international prices and, as illustrated in the following table, they are
now virtually equal to border-price equivalents, at the official exchange
rate, except for groundnuts and cotton where implicit subsidies are
appreciable.
Table 1.1: Producer Prices for Controlled Crops (1988)
Border-Price   Domestic      Nominal
Parity        Equivalents    Prices         Protection
Base           (Z$/Ton)        (ZI/Ton)     Coefficients
Maize               Export           197             195             0.99
Sorghum             Export           187             195             1.04
Wheat               Import           368             365             0.99
Soyabeans           Export           448             420             0.94
Groundnuts          Export           774             1000            1.29
Cotton              Export           715             850             1.19
1.12     On the other hand, these prices are set uniformly throughout the
country and marketing season.  Consequently, the present price policy is
liable to entail efficiency losses since it does not take into account the
geographically varying comparative advantages, and seasonally changing
supply and demand conditions in domestic market. Moreover, even though
output prices are consistent with international prices, they may lead to
misallocation of public resources because such prices may not reflect the
relative costs of generating foreign exchange from various import-
substitution and export commodities, differer-t farming systems
(smallholders vs large-scale farmers) and different production techniques
(irrigated vs rainfed agriculture). The Government also administers
consumer prices for the basic food commodities, notably maize, wheat, and
milk. However, Zimbabwe has avoided high consumer subsidies and although
the marketing parastatals have been incurring substa.ntial deficits, this is
largely due to high overhead costs and/or producer subsidies except in the
case of milk where consumer subsidies appear to account for a considerable
proportion of the deficits relating to the Dairy Marketing Board.
Following a recent review of the parastatals' efficiency, the Government is
considering measures to reduce their overhead costs. The MLARR plans to
undertake, with assistance from the Bank as may be necessary, a detailed
and comprehensive review of the agricultural sector, including an analysis
of the price policy issues. The sector review is expected to provide a
basis for the Bank and the Government to engage in a more meaningful
dialogue, on all major sectoral issues, than at present. The recent
performance of Zimbabwe agriculture is significantly due to the fact that
the Government has maintained producer prices at attractive levels.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government will continue
to ensure adequate producer incentives in general (para 6.03 [a]), and take



- 6 -
appropriate me&sures to ensure that the structure of the cotton prices is
such as will enable CMB to eliminate losses from self-generated revenues
(para 2.19 and 5.08).
1.13     Agricultural Credit:  Despite the fact that Zimbabwe has a well
developed and diversified financial sector, only 12X of smallholders have
access to credit. In addition to the Reserve Bank of Zimbambwe (RBZ) and
five commercial banks, the country has a full range of financial
institutions comprising finance houses, building societies, insurance
companies, post office saving bank, and development finance corporations.
However, the financial sector caters mainly to large businesses, and
farmers. For agricultural credit, the important institutions are the
commercial banks, finance houses and companies, and the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC); other significant institutions include Cold
Storage Commission (CSC) for livestock credit to all farmers. AFC is the
single largest source of credit to farmers, accounting in recent years for
about 402 of the total agricultural credit, while commercial banks account
for about 45?, and finance houses and other institutions for the balance of
152. Lending to agriculture by commercial banks consists of overdraft
facilities to commercial farmers and advances to the Agricultural Marketing
Authority (AMA) to finance working capital requirements of the agricultural
parastatals; finance houses confine their lending to machinery and
equipment, under hire-purchase arrangements, thus excluding on-farm
investments. Although these institutions are expected to play an
increasing role in agricultural credit, discussions with them during the
appraisal of the proposed project indicated that they generally consider it
too risky to lend for horticultural investments involving relatively new
ventures that are heavily dependent on export of fresh products. AFC,
therefore, remains the sole source of credit to smallholders and venture
capital to commercial farmers. Mainly for these reasons and the need to
achieve project objectives while reaching as many farmers as possible, the
credit component under the proposed project would be channeled through AFC.
1.14     Interest Rates:   Annex 1, Table 1, shows the levels and structure
of interest rates. Interest rates in Zimbabwe are basically market-
determined and there is no credit rationing. Thus, their level basically
reflects the underlying supply and demand conditions for loanable funds.
During the recent past, the supply of such funds has generally exceeded
effective demand, thereby contributing to low interest rates. In addition,
monetary management has sought to stabilize interest rates with the result
that the nominal rates have varied little over time; the prime rate charged
by commercial banks has remained unchanged at 13? p.a., and short-term
deposit rate at 8.25Z p.a. since 1981. However, the lending rates have
varied significantly according to maturity, risks and type of borrowers,
while all rates fluctuated in real terms according to inflation cycles.
Relative to the GDP implicit price deflator, the prime commercial bank
lending rate was negative by 1.9? on the average during the 1980-84 period
and positive by 0.5? on the average during the 1985-87 period.



- 7 -
C. Bank Strategy and Lending Operations for Zimbabwe Agriculture
1.15     Strategys  The Bank's strategy for Zimbabwe agriculture aims at
helping smallholders increase a production ani productivity of commodities
suited to smallholder farming, and commercial farmers diversify into export
and import-substitution commodities for which they have comparative
advantages. To these ends, the strategy places emphasis on reorienting
agricultural support services towards smallholders while ensuring
availability of imported inputs for commercial farmers, strengthening
institutional capability of the major agricultural agencies, adjusting
sectoral policies as politically and socially feasible, and conserving land
resources especially in the densely populated Communal Areas. The strategy
is supported all the major donors, notably the EEC, IFAD, AfDB, KfW, ODA,
USAID, and the Dutch Government. The EEC is providing funds to AFC for
smallholder credit, technical assistance, and some equipment. IFAD is co-
financing the ongoing National Research and Extension Project while AfDB
has, in the past, provided credit funds to AFC and is supporting the
resettlement program. ODA has been the major supporter of the resettlement
program and is also providing technical assistance and training accross the
sector as is USAID. The Government of the Netherlands has been actively
involved in promoting horticultural exports including providing funds
(about US$2.5 million) for recurrent imported inputs. To help
implementation of this strategy, the Bank seeks to not only complement the
activities of other donors but also to help mobilize additional external
resources with the view to minimizing the cost of funds. The proposed
project is the first to include support to commercial farmers.
1.16     Lending Operations:  The Bank lending operations consist of three
projects aimed at assisting to reorient support services to smallholders
and to improve conservation of the land resources: the National Extension
and Research (LN 2335-ZIM); the Rural Afforestation (CR. 1368-ZIM); and the
Small Farm Credit Project (CR 1291-ZIM), designed to provide credit to
smallholders and to strengthen AFC institutional capacity. Allowing for the
adverse effect of recurrent droughts, the overall implementation progress
for the three projects has been satisfactory. However, all the projects
suffered, in varying degrees, from institutional problems. Mainly due to
limited capability of the ministry concernc-d with construction works, the
building program under the National Extension and Research Project has
remained significantly behind targets, and the necessary inter-ministerial
coordination has been generally weak. Until recently, the forestry project
was considerably handicapped by management-related problems. The Small
Farm Credit project made notable achievements as the number of borrowers
taking seasonal credit and the total amount of loans significantly exceeded
appraisal targets. However, the number and amounts of term loans have been
much less than envisaged. Moreover, largely due to problems encountered in
introducing a new computer system, and delays in tendering and awarding
contracts for civil works, the closing date had to be extended for two
years to June 30, 1988.
1.17     Project Completion Report (PCR) has been done only for the Credit
Project since the other projects have not come to a close. The main lessons
learned from this PCR and from the supervision of the other projects are
that: it is necessary to keep project designs simple until institutional



- 8 -
and management capabilities are strengthened; adopt a realistic project
implementation period; ensure well scheduled and effective staff training
programs; devise practical arrangements for inter-agency coordination where
such coordination is necessary; and provide sufficient guidance to the
Borrower particularly with regard to procurement procedures. The proposed
project has taken the above lessons into account.



- 9 -
II. PROJECT-RELATED INSTITUTIONS
A. Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
Organization and Management
2.01     AFC was established in 1971 and is a wholly Government-owned
institution, under MLARR. Its objectives are to provide credit for the
production, processing, storage, and marketing of agricultural produce, and
to help implement national agricultural development strategy. Before
independence, it lent nearly exclusively to large-scale commercial farmers.
Since then, it has had to assume the additional function of meeting credit
needs of smallholders while continuing to support commercial farmers as
necessary. Chart 1 shows AFC's organizational structure at the
headquarters. A Board of Directors, appointed by Government, is
responsible for setting AFC's overall policies and ensuring that they are
sound and consistent with the Government objectives and priorities. The
General Manager, appointed by Board subject to approval by the minister of
MLARR, is in charge of day-to-day operations. He is assisted by two Deputy
General Managers (DGMs), one serving as the chief accountant and financial
officer, and the other as the chief loans officer responsible for
formulation and implementation of loan programs. At the field level, the
organization consists of seven provincial branches and 19 district offices,
with each province headed by a provincial manager, assisted by two branch
managers, one covering smallholders and the other commercial farmers. The
branch managers operate through district offices headed by an assistant
branch manager or a senior district inspector. The day-to-day contact with
farmers is maintained by assistant loan inspectors. A typical organization
of provincial branches is given in Chart 2. The present organizational
structure is sufficiently sound to enable AFC to implement the lending
program envisaged under the proposed project.
Staffing and Staff Training
2.02 The number of AFC staff has increased rapidly from 170 in 1979 to
about 780 at present. However, to ensure satisfactory implementation of
the proposed project, it will be necessary to increase the cadre of the
field staff (para 3.05), and improve staff training and manpower
development planning. It is also desirable to adjust terms of service to
make them sufficiently competitive with those of comparable financial
institutions in the country. While AFC's higher level staff are reasonably
qualified, lack of professional training in agricultural credit and banking
adversely affects staff performance at all levels. To address the problem,
AFC has started establishing a staff training center and has recently
created the post of AGM-Personnel whose main responsibility would be to
develop and implement a staff training program based on a systematic
manpower requirement and development plan. To reinforce this initiative,
AFC has obtained two-man years of technical assistance from the EEC for a
specialist in staff training. The first phase of his work would involve
preparation of a manpower requirement and development plan, identification
of training needs, and design of a training program accordingly; the
second phase would involve helping to implement the training program. His



- 10 -
terms of reference have been reviewed and agreed with the EEC, AFC and the
Bank. At negotiations, assurance was obtained that preliminary and final
reports of specialist would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment, as in Annex 1, Table 17; and that Bank comments would be taken
into account in the implementation of the training program ( para 6.02
[a]).
2.03     Although AFC has been unable to attract and retain staff of the
appropriate caliber partly due to the uncompetitive nature of its terms of
employment, it has no authori*y to adjust these terms without Government
approval. The result is a high rate of staff turnover, at 201 p.a., and
insufficiently experienced staff, many of whom joined AFC from schools and
colleges and stay for only a relatively short period of service. The
urgency of the matter is highlighted by the recent resignation of the DGM-
Finance and the difficulties in attracting suitable candidates for both
this and the newly established post of Assistant General Manager,
Personnel. On the other hand, AFC's problem cannot be addressed in
isolation from the other parastatals, all of which are suffezing from the
same constraints. The Government has, therefore, recently established a
commission to review the terms of service for all parastatals, and AFC has
submitted to the commission proposals on job grading and compensation for
its staff.  If approved, these proposals would appreciably lessen the
prablem facing AFC in the short-run. For the medium- to the long-term,
AFC plans to be reconstituted into a more autonomous corporation, with
sufficient authority to set its terms of employment at levels that are
competitive with the other financial institutions. To this end, the EEC
has agreed to provide a Financial Advisor whose responsibilities would
include assisting AFC to formulate proposals for reconstituting AFC
accordingly (para 2.15). The EEC has also agreed to finance consultancy
services to help AFC design, starting with the recommendations of the
ongoing commission, an appropriate staff grading, evaluation, and
compensation system. The terms cf reference for the consultants have been
reviewed and agreed with the EEC, AFC and the Bank. At negotiations,
assurance was obtained that preliminary and final reports of the financial
adviser and consultants on staff compensation would be submitted to the
Bank for comments as scheduled in Annex 1, Table 17, and that the Bank
comments would be taken into account in the implementation of the
recommendations of the concerned reports (para 6.02 [a]). Assurance was
also obtained that, as a condition of effectiveness, the post of the DGM-
Finance would have been filled with a candidate having qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank (para 6.05 [a]).
Lending Policies, Terms and Procedures
2.04     AFC enabling legislation requires it to operate according to full-
cost recovery principles, except in cases where the Government specifically
directs AFC to undertake activities, such as lending to smallholders, on
terms which do not ful'y cover costs; in such cases the Government is by
law enjoined to compensate AFC fully for the losses arising therefrom. AFC
lending interest rate is determined by the Government and, as a matter of
general policy, it is set at least equal to the prime rates charged by
commercial banks. As noted earlier, the minimum commercial bank rate has
been 13Z p.a. for most of the 1980's and AFC lending rate has, therefore,
remained unchanged since 1983 at 13? p.a., plus a front-end fee of 0.52 on



- 11 -
the amount of loan approved. While in the past this rate has, on the
average, been positive in real terms, it may not continue to be so in the
future unless deliberate measures are taken to maintain it positive. On
the other hand, it would be inappropriate to deal with this issue in
isolation from the general case relating to the economy as a whole, since
doing so would place AFC's situation out of line with the overall in,erest
rate structure. The issue is better addressed within the context of the
dialogue that the Bank and the Fund are conducting with the Government on
the broad question of monetary management. It is, however, important that
the AFC lending rate is maintained at least equal to the going prime rate
charged by commercial banks. At negotiations, assurance was obtained to
this effect (para 6.03 [b]).
2.05     The present AFC lending rate has consistently resulted in net
revenues from loans to commercial farmers. On the other hand, it has always
been inadequate to recoup the inherently high costs of lending to the
widely-scattered smallholders all of whom require relatively small amounts
of credit. The Government has had to reimburse AFC for the losses
attributable smallholders, with reimbursements amounting to about 2.7Z of
the total loan portfolio in 1988. While these arrangements have the
advantages of safeguarding AFC financial conditions and giving transparency
to the involved subsidies, they also commit the Government to open-ended
reimbursements which may increasingly become unsustainable as the number of
smallholder borrowers rises. To eliminate subsidies over the medium-to
long-term, it is estimated that AFC would need an interest rate spread of
about 4.5Z. The proposed project would seek to ensure that, in addition to
the requirement indicated in para 2.04 above, AFC lending rate would be
periodically reviewed and adjusted so as provide AFC with a spread
sufficient to cover its fixed and recurrent costs. At negotiations,
assurance was obtained to this effect (para 6.03(b]).
2.06     AFC's other lending policies and terms are basically sound.
However, as detailed in paras 4.02 and 4.03, there is a need to improve
lending procedures, notably to promote the use of the group-lending
approach, adopt loan evaluation procedures that better reflect borrowers'
ability to repay, and establish a more effective system for monitoring
lending operations.
2.07     Loan Portfolio:  As Annex 1, Tables 2 and 4 show, between 1980/81
and 1987/88 AFC's loan portfolio was characterized by: a steady and rapid
increase in the amount of loans approved annually; a major shift towards
smallholders both in terms of the number of borrowers and total amount of
loans; and a decline in the number of commercial farmer borrowers. In
nominal terms, the total amount of loans disbursed annually rose from Z$95
million in 1980/81 to Z$173 million in 1986/87. The number of smallholder
borrowers increased from 18,000 in 1980/81 to about 91,400 in 1985/86, the
amount of loans granted to them from Z$4.2 million to Z$48.6 million, and
their share of AFC credit from 4.0Z to 32Z. On the other hand, the number
of commercial farmer borrowers has been on a continuously declining trend,
falling from 5900 to 2400 during the period. It is important that AFC
maintain a reasonable balance between the two types of farmers as envisaged
under the future lending program set out in Annex 1, Table 3. To this end,
AFC needs to expand its capacity to ensure quality services to both
smallholder and commercial farmers, as envisaged under the project.



- 12 -
2.08     Until 1986, AFC had loan arrears averaging 19X of the total
outstanding loans. However, as Annex 1, Table 4 shows, arrears rose from
about Z$56 million or 20Z of the total outstanding portfolio in 1986 to
Z$185 million or 48Z in 1988. The sharp rise in arrears has been due to:
(a) the recurrent droughts which plagued the country from 1982 to
1984 and again during 1986187, thereby reducing farmers'
incomes and ability to repay loans;
(b) an 18-month breakdown of AFC's computer system, thus making
AFC unable to provide borrowers with up-to-date information
about the status of their loan accounts, field officers
unable to identify   .aulters, and many farmers reluctant to
repay for fear that their repayments may not be recorded
correctly;
(c) erosion of the "stop order" system as some borrowers resorted
to side marketing, partly to avoid multiple loan deductions;
(d) concentration of AFC provincial officers and loan recovery
staff at the headquarters in Harare, instead of being
stationed in the field;
(e) AFC's lack of effective physical presence in many districts
where it has no office facilities;
(f) lack of a system to monitor changes in financial circumstance
bearing on farm incomes and, therefore, loan repayments and
calling for adjustment of the lending program; and to provide
data for determining the age composition of the arrears and
for formulating sound criteria for writing off bad debts; and
(g) lack of a system to generate appropriate and timely
information to guide management decisions.
2.09     The incidence of bad debts among these arrears is expected to be
about 7Z. AFC is committed to reducing arrears to not more than 35? of the
total portfolio during 1989/90, 25X in 1990/91 and 15Z in 1991/92 and
thereafter. To this end, AFC has since last May initiated several
measures. Apart from restoring the computer system to working order, the
data processing capability has been strengthened by the recruitment of a
System Manager and a Senior Analyst, and all provincial branches have been
provided with computer terminals to enable them to have ready access to the
status of individual loan accounts. To strengthen the field loan
supervision and collection, the provincial -qnagers and loan collection
staff have been deployed from the headquarters in Harare to the field. It
has also launched a country-wide campaign on credit repayment, coupled with
not granting new loans to and taking legal action against defaulters.
These measures have already begun to show promise, as arrears have been
brough down to 42.7X by end of March 1989. With the assistance of the
proposed project, AFC would strengthen its field presence by increasing the
number of district offices, update and expand the computer system, minimize
the problem concerning the stop-order system by implementing the measures
set out in para 4.04, and improve loan repayments by bringing social



- 13 -
pressure to bear on defaulters through group lending. At negotiations,
assurance was obtained that AFC would reduce arrears according to above
targets (para 6.02 [b).
2.10     To reinforce the above measures, the EEC has agreed to finance
three consultancies, one of which would, among other things, assist AFC
identifying ways of improving the management of its loan portfolio in
general and, in particular, to evaluate the factors contributing to arrears
and, as necessary, formulate specific measures to reduce arrears in
accordance with the above targets. The second consultancy would help to
strengthen the recently created Monitoring and Evaluation Unit whose
functions include assessing the status of loan commitments and actual
disbursements as well as the operational performance of the field offices;
identifying and analyzing implementation problems bearing on lending
operations; and identifying and evaluating factors impacting on financial
viability of the main types of investments financed by AFC. The third
consultancy would assist AFC in establishing and initiating implementation
of a sound management information system. The terms of reference for these
consultancies have been reviewed and agreed with AFC, EEC and the Bank. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that preliminary and final reports
of these consultants would be submitted to the Bank for comments as
scheduled in Annex 1, Table 17; and that Bank comments woull be taken into
account in the implementation of the consultants' recommendations (para
6.02 [a]).
Financial Performance and Capital Structure
2.11     Financial Performance:  Annex 1, Table 5 shows AFC's income and
expenditure statements for the period 1980-87. Since net losses from AFC's
lending to smallholder are fully reimbursed by the Government, net income
as shown in Annex 1, Table 5 reflects mainly net revenues generated from
lending to commercial farmers. Net revenues thus generated have remained
fairly stable at about 82 of loans granted, and rose from Z$0.8 million in
1980 to Z$8.4 million in 1988; on the other hand, losses attributable to
smallholders rose from Z$0.2 million to Z$5.7 million in 1988. This
reflects the fact that, the cost of lending to smallholder is about three-
times the cost of lending to commercial farmers. Reimbursements from the
Government to AFC for losses relating to smallholders have averaged 3.32 of
the total outstanding loans during the past six years. Annex 1, Table S
shows the projected income and expenditure statements up to 1993/94. The
main assumptions are that the lending program to smallholders and
commercial farmers would be as shown in Annex 1, Table 3; lending interest
rates, the weighted cost of funds and, therefore, the interest spread would
remain as at present; and thet operating costs would rise by 15? during
1989, 12Z during 1990, 102, in 1992, and 82 thereafter. Under these
asoumptions, AFC's profit position would continue to be satisfactory, even
without budgetary subventions, since AFC would continue to realize net
revenues rising from Z$1.7 million in 1989 to Z$4.6 million in 1994; with
reimbursements from the Government, profits would rise respectively from
Z$8.1 million to Z$15.4 million. Unless interest spread is adjusted,
reimbursements from the Government to cover losses due to smallholder
credit would rise from Z$6.4 million in 1989 to Z$10.8 million in 1994.
The Government, therefore, intends to gradually reduce the budgetary burden
by periodically reviewing and adjusting AFC interest rate to allow a spread



- 14 -
sufficient to cover AFC costs. At negotiations, assurance was obtained to
this effect (para 6.03 [b]).
2.12     Capital Structure.  Annex 1, Table 7 shows AFC's balance sheets
for the period 1980-88. Total assets, about 95Z of which are loans to
farmers, increased from Z$132.3 million in 1980 to Z$403.7 million in 1988.
Equity funds, generated mostly from lending to commercial farmers, have
shown a marked improvement, rising from Z$16.4 million or 122 of total
resources in 1980 to Z$70.9 million or 18Z of total resources at the end of
1988. Thus, the debt/equity ratio declined steadily from about 7.7 in 1980
to 4.6 at the end of 1988. The equity position is considerably enhanced by
the fact that more than 40X of the long-term funds from the Government are
irredeemable and, therefore, constitute semi-equity resources. Annex 1,
Tables 8 and 9 respectively show the projected source and application of
funds, and balance sheet positions during 1989-94. The main assumptions
are that AFC would implement the lending program and realize credit
collection rates shown in annex 1, Table 3; expand its field facilities as
envisaged under the proposed project; and continue to obtain long-term and
short-term loans from the Government and other sources, in addition to the
project related loans, as necessary to fund the projected lending program.
Under these assumptions AFC's financial conditions would continue to be
satisfactory. The net working capital positions would remain sufficiently
strong throughout the period, with equity capital rising steadily to
Z$143.5 million (about 201 of total resources), and the debt-equity ratio
declines to 4.0 in 1994. Consequently, there is no justification to
convert Government loans into paid-in capital.
2.13     On the other hand, there is a need to reduce AFC's heavy
dependence on borrowing from Governmental funds, given the increasing
budgetary constraints facing the country and the fact that AFC would have
to borrow short- and long-term loans amounting to about Z$582.5 million by
1994. To ease the burden on budgetary resources, AFC plans to be
reconst4.tuted into a corporation capable of raising local non-governmental
funds through taking deposits from the general public and/or borrowing from
the local capital market. AFC has already started borrowing from the local
capital market and is considering the possibility of mobilizing saving
deposits from the general public. However, there are real risks that by
hastily or prematurely embarking on deposit taking functions, AFC may
impair its capability to carry out its primary responsibility of ensuring a
sound agricultural credit delivery and recovery system. It is, therefore,
necessary that a move to create a deposit-taking institution is preceded by
a systematic assessment of pros and cons, a clear identification of the
required institutional and manpower changes, and a sound determination of
the proper timing. To this end, the EEC has agreed to provide AFC with
technical assistance for a financial specialist to work with AFC for at
least two years. In addition to advising the General Manager and, through
him, the Board on all financial aspects of AFC, the specialist would be
responsible for helping AFC to formulate proposals to reconstitute it into
a corporation with sufficient power not only to raise funds locally but
also to set its terms of service at levels competitive with the other
financial institutions in the country. His terms of reference have been
reviewed and agreed with the AFC, EEC and the Bank. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that his preliminary and final reports would be
submitted to the Bank for comments as scheduled in Annex 1, Table 17, and



- 15 -
that the Bank comments would be taken into full account in the
implementation of the recommendations of the report (para 6.02 (a]).
B. The Cotton Marketing Board (CMB)
Organization, Management and Staffing
2.14     The Cotton Marketing Board was established in 1969 to promote
cotton production by providing, among other things, marketing and
processing facilities and services. To carry out these functions, the
Board is organized into five main departments: operations, engineering,
marketing, finance, and administration and personnel. The departments are
headed by an Assistant General Manager, reporting to the General Manager
through two Deputy General Managers; in turn, the General Manager reports
to the AMA through a series of committees (Chart 3).   The present
organizational structure is basically sound and adequate to ensure
satisfactory implementation of the program envisaged under the proposed
project. The total numbers of CMB employees has risen sharply from about
2600 in 1983 to 3700 in 1987, partly reflecting the increase in cotton
production and CMB's assumption of marketing activities previously provided
by the Zimbabwe Cotton Company (ZCC) and administrative services previously
provided by Grain Marketing Board (GMB). CMB terms of employment are
uncompetitive even in comparison with other parastatals such as GMB; this
has made it difficult for CMB to attract and retain staff of the required
caliber. As noted above in the case of AFC, the Government has established
a commission to look at the terms of employment for all parastatals,
including CMB, and it is expected that the recommendations of the
commission will address the problem facing CMB relative to the other
parastatals. Although CMB provides in-house as well as some external
training to its staff, the training program could be improved by increasing
the training budget; expanding the program to reach most of the staff at
the operational level; enhancing the technical content of the courses
offered; and developing a more systematic manpower planning. However, the
most pressing need is to train the technicians concerned with ginning
operation, particularly in electrical and hydraulic subjects; the proposed
project would help to train such technicians.
Cotton Ginning and other Post-harvest Facilities
2.15     Cotton production increased from 173,000 tons in 1980 to over
300,000 tons in 1988. About 70Z of lint produced in Zimbabwe is typically
exported, and 33Z sold to the local textile industry; an increasing
proportion is expected to be sold locally to meet the rising domestic
needs. CMB's capital investment program envisages the production of seed
cotton to increase from about 339,000 tons in 1988 to about 471,000 tons in
1993. However, the extent to which this would materialize depends on
several factors most of which are beyond the control of CMB. Such factors
include producer prices of cottor. relative to prices of the other crops;
availability of land in communal areas and of labor in commercial areas;
progress in the resettlement scheme as planned in the Zambezi Valley and
under which scheme substantial increase in cotton production is expected;
and availability of resources to develop the envisaged irrigation schemes
in the same areas. Cotton has now become a major export crop, with the
possibility of surpassing tobacco in due course, and significant cash crop



- 16 -
among many smallholders. It is, therefore, necessary for the country to
have well formulated medium- and long-term programs to ensure proper and
efficient development of the cotton subsector, and to address the financial
problems now facing CMB (para 2.18). To this end, the proposed project
would finance a study to, among other things: (a) determine the available
potential for increasing production; (b) identify technical, policy, and
institutional constraints on the realization of the potential, and propose
possible ways to address such constraints; (c) assess costs and benefits of
the feasible development options; (d) identify ways to improve the
efficiency of CMB with a view to reducing ginning, operation, and overhead
costs; and (e) help to prepare a medium- and long-term program to develop
the subsector. The study would be carried out along the terms of reference
broadly set out in Annex 2. At negotiations, assurance was obtained that
the study would be completed, and the report submitted to the Bank for
review and comments not later than June 30, 1990 (para 6.03 Cc]).
2.16     CMB  owns and operates eight ginneries and also uses, on a
commission basis, the only privately owned ginnery to process cotton
produced in the south-eastern parts of the country. The capacity of these
ginneries is insufficient to cope with the projected increase in cotton
production by 1993. In addition, the average age of the existing ginneries
is about 20 years and, mainly because of the shortage of foreign exchange,
the ginneries are inadequately maintained; they are, therefore, subject to
frequent stoppages for lack of spare parts. Moreover, while cotton
production has shifted to communal areas, only one of the existing
ginneries and a few of the transit depots are located in communal areas.
Consequently, most of the cotton produced in these areas has to be
transported over long distance, particularly in areas around Mt. Darwin
where production is expected to rise rapidly. The proposed project would
help to address these constraints by financing construction of a ginnery
and related post-harvest facilities at Mt. Darwin, and spare parts for the
existing ginneries.
Financial Performance and Conditions
2.17     Financial Performance:  Annex 1, Table 10 presents CMB's income
and expenditure statements for the period 1980-1988. After operating at
profits for the most part of the 1980-85 period, CMB suffered serious and
persistent losses during subsequent years, annually averaging Z$34.4
million during 1986-88 period. Although operating costs, particularly
ginning and overhead expenses, have been rising significantly, the poor
financial performance is primarily attributable to the domestic prices for
seed cotton and lint (para 5.08). Until recently, local l'nt prices were
set at a level equivalent to the world prices but, for the last three
years, they have been kept below the border-price equi elents as a matter
of policy in order to ensure competitiveness of the local textile industry.
Although the impact of this policy on CMB's income has not been critical,
it is likely to assume increasing importance in the future as local lint
sales are expected to account for a growing proportion of total lint
production. The most important factor behind the poor financial performance
is the price paid to farmers for seed cotton. As a proportion of sales
revenues, the cost of seed cotton rose from about 62Z on average during
1983-85 to about 822 during 1986-88, reflecting not only the rising costs
associated with the shifting of production towards communal areas but also



- 17 -
the fact that producer prices have tended to increase faster than the
prices realized by CMB.
2.18     Unless effective measure are taken to rectify the situation, CMB
financial performance will continue to deteriorate, with cumulative losses
rising to the unaustainable amount of Z$505.7 million by the end of 1993/94
(Annex 1, Table 11). Such measures will need to aim not only at improving
CMB's efficiency in order to reduce costs but, more important, at ensuring
that domestic prices are in line with the world prices. As Annex 1, Table
12 shows, adoption of measures similar to those indicated in Table 5.4(f)
(reducing CMB's operation costs by 5Z; adjusting producer price for seed
cotton and local spinner prices for lint to border price equivalents; and
increasing cotton seed prices by 102) would enable CMB to earn
significantly positive net revenues rising to Z$81.7 million in 1994. The
proposed cotton subsector study is expected to identify ways to reduce
CMB's operation costs and to determine the appropriate prices for cotton
seed. At negotiations, assurance was obtained that, as a condition of
disbursing any of the project funds for the cotton component other than the
said study, the Government would adopt appropriate measure that would
enable CHB to generate increased revenues from its operations so as to
eliminate the deficit on its trading accounts effective from its fir:ancial
year 1990/91 and thereafter (para 6.04 (a]).
2.19     Capital Structure:  Annex 1, Table 13 shows CMB's balance sheet
positions during the 1980-88 period. As a mirror image of the poor
financial performance, CMB's equity resources have deteriorated severely
during the last three years, falling into a negative amount of Z$30.8
million at the end of 1987/88. In the absence of effective measures to
address the problem facing CHB, the situation is likely to continue to
deteriorate, and to place an increasingly heavy burden on budgetary
resources, as the networth declines further to minus Z$116.4 million at the
end of 1990/91 (Annex 1, Table 14). Annex 1 Table 15 shows the balance
sheet forecast on the basis of the price policy and cost reduction
assumptions indicated in para 2.18 above, while Table 16 similarly shows
the forecast source and use of funds. Realization of these assumptions
would improve the balance sheet significantly, with retained surpluses
becoming positive by Z$37.9 million in 1993.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01     Project Origin.  The project idea was conceived in mid-1987, in
the course of the rupervision of the IDA-supported Small Farmer Credit
Project. In November 1987, a Task Force was established to prepare project
proposals. AFC served as the coordinating agency and the Task Force
included representatives of the MLARR, Ministry of Finance, Commercial
Farmer's Union, National Farmers Association of Zimbabwe, and Zimbabwe
National Farmers Union; C*., was brought in later when it became obvious
that promotion of agricultural exports called for improvement of the cotton
ginning and storage capacity especially in Communal Areas. Thus, all the
major end-users of the resources to be provided under the proposed project
were involved in the preparation exercise. In preparing the project
proposal, the Task force was supported by FAO/CP mission which visited
Zimbabwe in October 1987 and January-February 1988. The Bank Residence
office also played a key role in the preparation exercise. The preparation
report was completed in March and appraisal took place in June-July 1988.
A representative of IFAD participated in the appraisal mission and was
primarily responsible for formulating the group lending program under the
proposed pilot scheme.
3.02     Proiect Obiectives and Design:  The project would seek to enable
smallholders increase production of food, cash and export commodities
suited to peasant farming, and commercial farmers diversify into export and
import-substitution products for which they have comparative advantage.
Thus, it would aim at alleviating some of the major constraints on widor
adoption of the available technological packages by small;aolders; on farm
investments, imported inputs, and technical backing needed by commercial
farmers; and on processing facilities for the main export crops. It would
also seek to strengthen the institutional capability and financial
conditions of AFC, and to encourage the adoption of a better pr3ce policy
for cotton. The Project design has taken into account experience gained
from implementation of the Small Farm Credit Project. It also takes into
account the on-going Bank operations, especially the IFAD-Bank supported
National Extension and Research Project, as well as other activities being
or likely to be funded other donors. In particular, the project is designed
to complement the support being provided by the EEC to AFC, and which
involves about US$ 17.8 million for credit to sLaallholders and about US$
5.5 million for technical assistance personnel, desk computers, and some
vehicles. The project is predicated on close coordination especially with
the EEC technical assistance (Annex 1, Table 17).
3.03     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  With the IDA Small Farm Credit
Project (CR 1291-ZIM) coming to an end, Bank's involvement is necessary to
build on the work started under the IDA protect, continue to take the lead
in promoting institutional and policy changes to strengthen the
agricultural credit system, and help mobilize and supplement funds for
lending to farmers. It is also needed to augment funds to improve and
expand the cotton processing facilities and production of horticultural
exports. The Bank has acquired considerable knowledge of Zimbabwe's
agricultural credit services, through the Small Farm Credit Project, and is
thus ideally situated to take the lead among donors with regard to policy



- 19 -
and institutional issues. In addition, through its sectoral dialogue and
funding of cotton processing facilities and horticultural production, the
Bank would be well-placed to encourage the Government to adopt more
appropriate policies and strategies for the development of the cotton
subsector and horticultural exports.
B. Proiect Description
Summary Project Description
3.04     The proposed project would provide funds to finance:
(a) agricultural credit to smallholders and commercial farmers;
(b) strengthening of AFC institutional capacity, and expansion of
its field facilities;
(c) a pilot scheme to promote the use of farmer groups as channels
for credit, marketing, and input supply among smallholders;
(d) expansion and improvement of the cotton processing and storage
facilities;
(e) strengthening of horticultural post-harvest research; and
(f) studies on horticultural export marketing and cotton
subsector.
Detailed Project Description
3.05     Agricultural Credit.  As Annex 1, Table 3 shows, AFC total loan
portfolio is projected to increase from Z$381.3 million in 1988/89 to
Z$670.8 million, net of annual repayments: an increase of about Z$289.5
million. About 40? of the incremental amount or Z$111.3 million would go
to smallholders and about Z$35.6 million would be financed by a loan
recently provided to AFC by the EEC, leaving a balance of about Z$75.7
million to be financed under the proposed project; about Z$54.9 million
would be lent directly to individuals while about Z$ 20.8 million would be
channelled through groups. It is estimated that about 30? of commercial
farmers borrowing for term credit from AFC would be involved in the
cultivation ef the crops that qualify for loans under the project and that
these farmers would require incremental credit amounting to about Z$ 52.6
million. The project would, therefore, finance short- and medium-term
incremental credit, for smallholders and commercial farmers, amounting to
about 2$ 128.3 million (US$ 64..2 million). Short-term loans would be made
available for purchased seasonal inputs and services, including hired
labor; medium-term loans would be made available for on-farm capital
development, farm machinery and equipment, including work-ox and related
implements, and motorized or ox-drawn farm transport vehicles not exceeding
10 ton capacity. Loans to smallholders would cover all crops and other
farming activities that are financially viable. For the commercial farming
system, loans would be made available to farmers producing or intending to
produce export and import-substitution crops. Many of the farmers produce
several crops, some of which would not qualify for credit under the



- 20 -
project. Such farmers would, nonetheless, qualify for credit under the
project provided they can prove that they are also producing eligible
commodities in quantities commensurate with the amount of credit they have
applied for.
3.06     Strengthening AFC Institutional  Canabilitys  AFC has obtained a
grant of ECU 2.6 million (Z$5.5 million) from the EEC to strengthen its
institutional capability. To complement the EEC assistance, the proposed
project would provide funds to finance: construction of 16 district offices
and related staff accommodation comprising 16 low density and 64 high
density houses: thirty 4-WD pick-ups and 40 motorcycles to improve field
staff mobility in 10 new districts; updating and expanding the main
computer facility, and associated spares, tapes, disks, supplies, and soft-
ware; 24 man-months of technical assistance for the post of Computer System
Manager, and 4 man-months of consultants to assist with the installation of
the new computer system; and 10 man-months of training in data processing.
3.07     To implement the envisaged lerding program, AFC will need to
increase the number of field staff. Based on past experience, this would
require improving the field staff-farmer ratios to: one Branch Inspector
for 60 loans to large-scale commercial farmers; a team of one District
Inspector and two Assistant Inspectors for 300 loans to small-scale
commercial farmers; and a team of one District Inspector and two Assistant
Inspectors for 1,500 loans to communal and resettlement scheme farmers. On
this basis, the project would finance incremental staff as follows:
1989   1990   1991   1992   1098    1994   Totsl
Branch-Inspectors         8       1       2      2       8       a       19
Dlstrict-Inspectors      16       6       B      5       9       9      50
Asslstant-Inspoctore     28      10      12      10     18      18      9#
Total                52      16      20     17      80      B0     165
3.08     Group Lending Pilot Scheme.  To reach a substantial proportion of
the farmers in communal areas, AFC will need to progressively implement the
policy, recently approved by its Board, to channel credit through farmer
groups, leaving the groups to on-lend to their members. To support this
approach, the proposed project would include a Group Lending Pilot Scheme
would involve selected cooperatives and informal farmer groups and would be
initiated in six districts, with three wards in each district. At the rate
of 8-9 farmer groups per ward, it is estimated that the scheme in the
initial phase would cover around 150 groups in 18 wards. In selecting
districts for the initial phase, the objective would be to ensure that all
agro-ecological regions and socio-economic zones are covered. Based on the
findings of a mid-term evaluation of the scheme during 1992 (para 4.14), it
is expected that the Scheme would be extended to cover another 30 wards in
Year 4 and additional 60 wards in Year 5 of the Project. Thus, during Year
5 of the Project, the Scheme would cover 108 out of a total of 1082 wards
in the country, and farmer groups covered by the scheme would be about 900.
The Scheme would then cover about 10% of the wards, and a slightly lesser



- 21 -
proportion of farmer groups in the country, and would be thereafter
replicated throughout the country.
3.09     The scheme is intended to test innovative approaches to group
lending and to improve operational efficiency of the credit delivery and
recovery system, in order to minimize the risks and operational costs to
AFC as well as credit costs to farmers. Because of the need to integrate
credit with marketing and input supply, the scheme would include these
activities as well. In addition to channeling credit through them, the
proposed project would support a training program, costing about US$0.8
million, to improve efficiency of the farmer groups under the scheme. The
program would include training in: credit administration; loan assessment
and supervision; commodity assembling, grading and marketing; input
procurement and transportation, group organisation and management; savings
mobilisation and cash management; and financial record keeping. The
project would also finance the costs of the Pilot Group Coordinator and
three support staff, one vehicle for the Coordinator, vehicle running
costs, and office supplies. The criteria for selecting groups to
participate in the scheme are shown in Annex 4.
3.10     Expanding and Improving Cotton Processing and Storage Facilities:
This would consist of: (a) construction of a new cotton processing
facility, in the North Eastern part of the country, with an annual capacity
of 25,000 tons of seed cotton; this would comprise civil works for a
ginnery house, seed cotton and lint as well as ancillary storage
facilities, service roads, electricity and water supply, office blocks, and
about 10 staff houses; (b) procurement of two tractors, three trailers, 75
trolleys, four forklift trucks and one transport truck, and 16 lint
clearing machines; (c) procurement of spare parts for the existing
ginneries, and tools and equipment for workshops; (c) 15 man-months of
consultancies for designing and supervising the construction of the
processing and storage facilities; and (d) 9 man-months of external
training for CMB technicians in electrical, mechanical and hydraulic
fields.
3.11     Horticulture Research.  To strengthen horticultural post-harvest
research at Marondera Research Station, the proposed project would finance
civil works to expand research buildings, and provide cold storage
facilities; and equipment and vehicles comprising laboratory apparatus,
three pickups, a 4-wheel drive vehicle and a tractor.
3.12     Studies:  The project would also finance 13 man-months of
consultancy services, one man-month to help in the installation of the new
research facilities, and 12 man-months to carry out a study of ways to
improve the marketing of horticultural exports. In addition, it would
finance 15.5 man-months of consultancy services for a study of the cotton
sub-sector. The terms of refirence for the study are set out in Annex 2.
C. Cost Estimate
3.13     Annex 3, Tables 3 to 10 show detailed project cost estimates.  The
total project costs, including contingencies for the non-credit components
and taxes and duties, are estimated at Z$233.8 million (US$ 116.9 million)
of which Z$124.7 million (US$62.4 million) or 532 is foreign exchange. As



- 22 -
a percentage of the base costs, the total credit component would account
for 61? (252 to commercial farmers and 362 to smallholders); cotton
component 24X; strengthening of AFC's institutional capability 141; and
group lending pilot scheme and horticultural research about one percent.
The base costs are calculated using prices obtained during appraisal and
updated to levels expected to prevail in July 1989. Costs, excluding the
credit component, include physical contingencies equal to 52 of base costs
except on civil works which have 101. Price contingencies are calculated
on base costs (excluding the credit component), plus physical contingencies
and are compounded using the following annual ratess on local costs, 11.52
in PY 1 and 112 thereafter and on foreign costs, 32 in PY 1, 3.5? in PY 2,
and 42 thereafter. The following table summarizes the estimated costs:



- 23 -
Table 8.1 Project Cost Summary
Zs i                     USi m
-------~~~~~---- -----     ---------------------    X Foreign
Locri  Forelsn  Total    Local  Foreian  Total   Exchange
(A) Agricultural Credit
Co mme rcial Farmers                   19.1    88.6    62.6        9.6   16.8      26.8       64
Smallholder Farmrs
Individual Lending                  22.1    82.9    66.0       11.0   16.4      27.4       60
Group Lending                        8.2    12.5    20.7        4.1    6.8      10.4       60
Subtotal Com_unal Area Farmers    8U.I    W X    7F7           17[   WY         W7I
Total Credit                        49.4    78.9   128.?       24.6   89.6      64.1       62
(8) AFC lnstitutional Developmnt
Capital Costa                        7.7     7.8    15.6        8.9    8.9       7.8       s0
Incremental Recurrent Costa         11.9     0.6    12.4        6.0    0.8       6.8        6
1i.6     i:i    27.9        9.9     .2    1i4.1        870
(C) Group Lending Pilot Schme                   0.1      0.4     0.6       -       0.2      0.2       76
(D) Cotton linning and Storage
Capital Costs                       12.3    28.0    40.8        6.2   18.9      20.1       69
Incremental Recurront Costs          9.1     0.8      9.4       4.6    0.1       4.7        8
2T.7    2.71    4V7        IU7    1 iT     2Ti 61
(E) Horticultural Research                      0.6      0.9     1.4       0.2    0.5       0.7       70
(F) Studies
Hort. Export Marketing               -       0.8      0.8       -      0.2       0.2      100
Cotton Subeector                     -       0.8      0.8       -      0.2       0.2      100
-       0.6     0.6        -      0.4      0.4       III
(0) Consultancles                               0.2      1.4     1.6       0.1    0.7       0.8       85
(H) Training                                    0.6      0.6     1.2       0.8    0.8       0.6       54
8ase Costa                                    91.8   119.4   211.2       46.9   69.7    106.6        57
Physical  Contingencies                          2.4     2.1     4.6        1.2    1.1      2.8        47
Price Contingencies                             14.9     8.2    18.0        7.4    1.6      9.0        18
Total Project Costs                            109.0  124.7   2B8.8        64.6   62.4    116.9        58
Taxes A Duties                                  (4.8)    -      (4.8)      (2.2)   -        (2.2)       -
Needed Financing                               104.7   104.0   229.5       62.8   62.4    114.7



- 24 -
D. Financing Arrangements
3.14     Annex 3, Table 11 detail the proposed financing plan.  All foreign
exchanges costs would be funded from external sources. The Bank loan would
cover foreign exchange costs amounting to US$36.3 million, of which US$
16.8 million would be for credit to commercial farmers, US$ 8.6 million for
credit to smallholders, US$ 4.4 million for strengthening AFC institutional
capacity, US$ 6.0 million for cotton processing and storage, and US$ 0.5
million for the horticultural research. IFAD is expected to provide US$
15.0 million all of which would finance foreign exchange costs for credit
to smallholders. Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) would
contribute US$ 9.7 million for financing foreign exchange costs relating to
the cotton processing and storage component. The Government of New Zealand
is expected to make a grant of about USS 0.2 million to finance the
proposed horticultural export marketing study. The Government of Japan has
made available a grant of US$ 3 million to be used for technical assistance
and training components; since such components amount to US$1.8 million,
after taking into account the grant from the Government of New Zealand, it
is assumed that the project would use only US$ 1.8 million from the
Japanese grant. Commercial farmers would contribute about US$ 8.7 million
in local cost, equivalent to 252 of the total cost of the sub-loans made to
them. AFC would contribute US$ 14.7 million, CMB USS 7.0 million, and GOZ
US$ 23.5 million or US$ 21.3 million excluding taxes and duties. The
Government of Spain has indicated interest to contribute towards the cotton
ginning and storage component; if and when this materializes, it would be
used to reduce the Bank loan. The following table summarizes the proposed
financing pl"n:
Table 8.2: Flnancing Plan
Local     Forein    Total    Percent
.....   S$  Mill on ....
IBRD               -----     86.8      86.8     81
IFAD               -----     16.0      16.0      18
BADEA                         9.7       9.7      8
Japan               0.6       1.2       1.8      2
New Zealand        -----      0.2       0.2      ---
AFC                14.     ----        14.7      18
CUB                 7.0      ----       7.0      6
Commercial Farmers    8.7    ----       8.7      7
Government         28.6      ----      28.5      20
Total     54 .254             116.9   I-0
3.15     The Bank loan would be made to the Government under IBRD standard
variable interest rate, and 20-year maturity including 5 years of grace.
It would on-lend, at 9.752 interest rate p.a. with 15-year maturity,
including a 3-year grace period, to: (a) AFC an amount of US$ 29.8 million
equivalent, and (b) to CMB an amount of US$S.O million for cotton
processing and storage facilities. On-lending to AFC and CMB would be under



- 25 -
subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank and execution of the
subsidiary loan agreements would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.05
[b]). The Government would assume foreign exchange risks for the IBRD
funds; at negotiations, assurance was obtained to the above effect (para
6.03 [d).
E. Procurement
3.16     Procurement under the proposed project would be in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. Farm machinery and equipment, farm transport vehicles,
seasonal inputs and other supplies required by the farmers under the credit
lines would be procured by the farmers themselves from local dealers or
through direct import. Given that the size of individual investments would
be too small and bulking of contracts would not be possible because of
their diversity and scattered nature of jobs and requirements in Zimbabwe,
neither International Competitive Bidding (ICB) nor Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) would be feasible under this component. Civil works would be
procured through Local Competitive Bidding, (LCB) following procedures
acceptable to the Bank and subject to prior review and approval by the Bank
of bid documents and awards of any contracts costing more than US$ 500,000
equivalent. Machinery, equipment and vehicles would be bulked to the
maximum extent possible and orders costing more than US$100,000 would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), according to Bank
Guidelines, and orders costing less than US$100,000 equivalent through LCB,
following procedures acceptable to the Bank, with contracts for less than
$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$ 400,000 being procured on the
basis of quotations from at least three suppliers. Furthermore, bid
documents and awards for orders exceeding US$500,000 equivalent would be
subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. Foreign firms
represented lu Zimbabwe would be eligible to bid under LCB. The following
table summarizes the- procurement plan:



- 26 -
Table 3.3t Procurement Method (US$ Million)
ICB        LCB          Others     N.A.       Total
Agr. Credit             -          -            64.2                  64.2
(25.4)                (25.4)
Civil Works                       11.5           0.6                  12.1
(3.8)                              (3.8)
Vehicles                1.4        0.3                                 1.7
(0.7)      (0.2)                               (0.9)
Equipment
Cotton           13.5         2.5           0.5                  16.5
(3.5)      (0.6)                               (4.1)
AFC                2.4        0.3           0.2                   2.9
(1.7)      (0.2)                               (1.9)
Research                      0.3           0.1                   0.4
(0.2)                              (0.2)
Consultancies
and Studies                                      1.2                   1.2
(0.0)
Training                                         0.8                   0.8
(0.0)
Recurrent Costs                                           17.1        17.1
Total                  17.3       14.9          67.6      17.1        116.9
(5.9)      (5.0)         (25.4)                (36.3)
Note:  Figures in brackets represents amounts financed by IBRD.
F. Disbursement
3.17     As the estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 3, Table 12), shows
the Bank funds would be disbursed over a period of six years, largely
reflecting the disbursement profile for Zimbabwe. Disbursement would be
made on the following basis:
(a) Agricultural credit: 752 of credit disbursed b-y AFC to commercial
farmers and 100Z of credit disbursed by AFC to smallholders;
(b) Civil works: 30Z of total expenditures;
(c) Machinery, equipment: 1002 of foreign expenditures if imported
directly, and 75Z of local costs if procured locally;



- 27 -
(d) Vehicles: 1002 of foreign expenditures if imported directly, and
752 of local costs if procured locally;
3.18     For agricultural credit and training, disbursemencs would be
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) certified by the General Manager
of AFC and CMB as relevant; these SOEs would be retained by AFC and CMB and
made available for inspection by the Bank staff in the course of project
supervision and by independent auditors. Disbursements for civil work,
machinery, equipment, vehicle and technical assistance contracts costing
more than US$50,000 equivalent, would be made against full documentation;
for contracts costing up to US$50,000 equivalent disbursement would be,
made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and each of the project
implementation agencies would keep SOEs in a centralized location and make
them available for inspection by representatives of the Bank in the course
of project supervision and by Independent Auditors in the course of the
annual audit. Since the project would be implemented by three independent
agencies, it would be necessary to have three separate Special Accounts for
each of the three agencies. The Special Accounts would be established and
maintained in the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) under its "World Bank
Disbursements Pool Account" (WBDPA), subject to the same procedures as
apply thereto. RBZ should be asked to render 3 separate bank statements
for the three different accounts. Upon project effectiveness, the Bank
would deposit into these accounts sums equivalent to the estimated 4-month
disbursements, a total of US$1.7 million representing US$1.0 million for
AFC, US$0.6 million for the CMB, and US$0.1 million for the MLAPR-R & SS.
Thereafter, the amounts would be replenished in accordance with rules and
procedures set forth in the respective schedules in the legal agreements.
G. Role of Women
3.19     Eighty percent of the 4.4 million women in Zimbabwe live and work
in the rural areas.  As a result of out-migration of adult men to seek
employment in the towns and mines, about 512 of the 800,000 farm families
living in the communal areas are female-headed. Women, therefore, bear a
large burden of the work within the household unit. Not only are they
responsible for the household chores, including the time-consuming tasks of
collecting firewood and water and child-rearing, but they also do most of
the physical labor associated with crop production. This is exacerbated by
the fact that, with steadily increasing enrollment in school, children are
unable to contribute much to household and farm chores. Overall, Zimbabwe
women farmers produce about 70% of the crops, and in the Resettlement
Areas, they produce about 562 of the cotton, 55Z of the maize, and 77% of
the groundnuts.
3.20     Despite the fact that women farmers on the whole invest more time
and labor in farming activities than men do, they generally have less
access to credit, extension, and marketing services, primarily due to
traditional cultural patterns. Women's participation in credit programs
remains small, despite the fact that AFC considers them to be better credit
risks than men, as their repayment rates are higher. The proposed Project
would seek to improve women's agricultural productivity and alleviate the
above constraints through assisting AFC in the strengthening of its credit
outreach program to the Communal and Resettlement areas, especially through



- 28 -
the adoption of a group lending approach to the existing farmer groups, the
membership of which consists mostly of women. Through the strengthening
and eventual expansion of these groups, a greater proportion of Communal
and Resettlement Area farmers, especially women, could be reached. One of
the factors constraining access to credit among women is that they have no
right to land; the group approach would alleviate this constraint since the
group would serve as a guarantor of loan repayment. The mid-term
evaluation of the pilot scheme under the proposed project would include an
assessment of its impact on women (Annex 6).
H. Environmental Impact
3.21     The production and processing of some of the commodities to be
financed by the project involve the use of some agro-chemicals that may be
harmful to human beings if not handled properly; cotton ginning also
involve processes that may pollute the environment due to smoke, dust and
use of chemicai.. The Government of Zimbabwe maintains strict regulation
against pollutant agents and enforcement of these regulations would ensure
that the project would not have a negative impact on the environment
seriously. In addition, the ongoing National Research and Extension
Project is expected to train farmers how to use agro-chemicals properly to
avoid harming themselves. To ensure safe working conditions to workers
around the cotton processing facilities, a pollution control system is
incorporated in the design of the ginning plant. The Government furnished
the Bank with a list of the agro-chemicals recommended for cotton. It was
noted that two chemicals, which are environmetally unsatisfactory, will be
withdrawn when stocks are used up since the manufacturers no longer make
them; and that a third one calls for effective training of farmers on how
to use it so as to avoid harmful effects. Through its supervision work and
dialogue with the Government, the Bank will closely monitor the case to
ensure that the two chemical are withdrawn as planned and that farmers are
trained on how to properly use agro-chemicals that may be harmful to human
beings.
I. Role of NGOs
3.22     The main NGOs operating in the country are envisaged to play a
significant role under the proposed project especially with regard to the
pilot scheme. This is so not only because all the informal farmer groups
are NGOs but also because the conventionally recognized NGOs would
participate, through the Association of NGOs, in the main Coordinating
Committee concerned with the group-lending pilot scheme (para 4.08). While
the informal farmer groups would be involved in providing credit to their
members, other NGOs operating in the country would take part in the
training program under the pilot scheme and in helping to strengthen farmer
groups in order to enhance groups' capability to provide credit, marketing,
and input supply services to their members.
J. Accounts and Audit
3.23     AFC, CMB and MLARR-R & SS would maintain separate project accounts
and prepare annual project financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and practices. AFC and CMB
accounts are at present audited by the same independent firm of chartered
accountants which is acceptable to the Bank; MLARR-R & SS accounts are



- 29 -
audited by the Government's Auditor General. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that AFC and CMB accounts would continue to be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, while MLARR-R & SS accounts
would continue to be audited by the Auditor General; that the audit would
cover SOEs as relevant and would include specific comments on SOEs and the
use of funds from the three Special Accounts; and that, within six months
of the close of each financial year, the audited annual financial
statements together with the full auditor's report, would be submitted to
the Bank (paras 6.02 tc] and 6.03 (e]).



- 30 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Credit and Group Lending Pilot Scheme
4.01     AFC would be responsible for implementing the credit component;
it would also assume the primary responsibility of implementing the Group
Lending Pilot Scheme, and coordination of the participating ministries,
parastatals and NGOs as relevant. AFC would undertake the measures set out
below in order to improve the effectiveness of its general lending
operations, ensure sound arrangements for facilitating access to foreign
exchange for interested farmers, and enhance the success of the pilot
scheme:
General Lending Ope ations
4.02     Loan Evaluation Procedures:  At present, AFC evaluates loan
applications against farm models based on the broad five Natural Regions
without taking into account climatic variations within the regions and
their impact on expected returns. The amount of loan may, therefore, be
too high or too low in a given location within the region; also, there is
no reliable way of judging the financial viability of the clients and their
ability to repay loans. There is also a need for AFC to set a maximum
limit on the amount of loan to one borrower in order to minimize risks and
to avoid a situation where a few farmers take the bulk of the loans. To
rectify these drawbacks, AFC would, using technical coefficients provided
by Agritex taking into account any significant agro-climatic variations
within the natural regions: base loan evaluation for seasonal credit on a
typical crop or farm budget showing cost/benefit ratios, gross margins, and
return on labor, and grant credit only in cases where gross margin is
adequate to cover credit repayment and leave attractive returns to labor;
base evaluation of term loans not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent on a
typical farm model and loans exceeding that amount on appraisal of
individual application, showing financial and economic rates of returr, and
net cash flow projections over the economic life of the involved capital
investments, with loans granted only in cases where the rates of return are
at least 132. AFC would also limit the amount of the loan to a single
borrower to a maximum of US$250,000 equivalent. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained to the above effects (paras 6.02 [d] and [e]).
4.03     The crop budgets would be circulated to the field staff at
provincial and district offices to be used for assessing loan applications.
Because AFC staff has no experience in approving loans involving complex
investments for new crops such as horticulture products (on-farm
investments, green houses, cold storage or refrigerated transport), AFC
would use local consultants until AFC staff has gained the necessary
experience to appraise such loans. Furthermore, to ensure that Agritex
extension service gives sufficient attention to AFC borrowers or to the
villages where these borrowers are located, AFC would maintain close co-
ordination with Agritex. Specifically, AFC Provincial branches would
provide, on a monthly basis, lists of new borrowers to Agritex's provincial
offices incorporating in these lists the address of each farmer and the
purpose and amount of credit approved. In addition, AFC would arrange
periodic meetings at national, provincial and local levels among Agritex
and AFC officials.



- 31 -
4.94     Stop-Order System:  AFC heavily relies on stop orders registered
with marketing agencies to ensure repayment of its loans. One of the
factors that adversely affects AFC's overall loan collection is that, under
the current procedure, for farmers borrowing to grow more than one crop
handled by different marketing agencies, stop orders are registered with
each marketing agency at the full amount of the loan, including interest.
The combined amount collected by the agencies is, therefore, a multiple of
the number of involved agencies and, while AFC undertakes to refund the
excess amount to the farmer, it usually takes a long time before the refund
is effected.  ,s a result, many farmers resort to marketing their produce
outside the marketing agencies, thereby avoiding repaying multiple amounts
of loans. To alleviate this problem, AFC would use crop budgets and farm
models, as indicated in para. 4.02, to break down loan amounts according to
various crops and issue separate stop orders to each marketing agency only
for the part of the loan to the crop handled by agency. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained to this effect (para 6.02 [f]).
Arrangements to Make Foreign Exchange Available to Farmers
4.05     One of the purposes of the Special Account under the project is to
enable farmers to have direct access to foreign exchange resources, if they
need to do so, to procure imported inputs consistent with project
objectives. Processing of loan applications for access to foreign exchange
would be made through the mechanism existing in the country. At present, a
committee under the auspices of MLARR, the Export Promotion Program
Committee (EPPC), is responsible for reviewing all allocations of foreign
exchange pertaining to agriculture and recommending release of funds
through a similar committee under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance,
Economic Planning and Development. The Committee's primary objective the
is to ensure that foreign exchange is used for purposes that are fully
consistent with the national objectives and priorities.
4.06     In view of the foregoing, the mechanism for processing
applications for foreign exchange under the project would be as follows:
(a) Farmers wishing to avail them-selves of foreign exchange would
submit applications to AFC, together with proforma invoices and
telex confirming orders and a letter justifying the need for
foreign exchange;
(b) AFC would receive applications from farmers, for both local
currency and foreign exchange needs, and assess the applications
to determine the viability of the concerned sub-projects; if
satisfied that the sub-project is viable, AFC wold forward the
applications involving foreign exchange needs, together with the
attachments indicated in (a) above, to the MLARR's Export
Promotion Program Committee (EPPC);
(c) The MLARR's EPPC would then review the concerned applications, and
if satisfied that the applications are consistent with the
national priorities and that there are no other sources of funds,
forward them to the EPPC of the Ministry of Finance with due
recommendations;



- 32 -
(d) Upon satisfying itself regarding the need to make foreign exchange
available for the purposes set out in the applications, the EPPC
of the Ministry of Finance would advise the EPPC of MLARR
accordingly and return that applications to AFC through the
MLARR's EPPC;
(e) AFC would then grant loans to farmers applying for foreign
exchange.
4.07     While the above mechanism is reported to be working well witb'ut
long delay, it will need to be kept under review to ensure that it does not
unnecessarily slow down the processing of credit to farmers. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations to the above effect (para 6.02 (g]).
Group Lending Pilot Scheme
4.08     Organization and Management:  To facilitate effective coordination
among the participating agencies, AFC would constitute a Coordination
Committees, at the provincial and district levels as may be appropria.e,
inc.-iding AFC's Group Lend.ng Coordinator; and representatives of MLARR;
Ministry of Community and Co-operative Development and Women's Affairs
(MCCDWA), Ministry of Local Government and Rural and Urban Development
(MLGRUD); National Farmers Association of Zimbabwe (NFAZ); and Association
of NGOs.  The Committee would serve as an advisory body to AFC in all
matters relating to the group lending pilot scheme. AFC would also
establish, at its headquarters, a small Group Lending Operations Unit and
appoint one of its senior officers as the Group Lending Coordinator,
assisted by a three support staff from the existing A.FC staff, who would be
the Member-Secretary of the Coordination Committee. In addition, AFC would
assign an inspector for each district covered by the Pilot Scheme to
exclusively work for the Scheme and be in charge of all group credit
activities in the District. Each group would establish a management
committee consisting of the group's chairman, secretary, treasurer, and at
least two representatives of farmer members. Criteria for selecting
districts, wards, and groups to participate in the scheme, and procedures
for administering credit under the scheme would be as set out in Annex 4.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained to these effects (para 6.02 [hl).
4.09     Training:  The training program relating to the pilot scheme would
be organized by AFC's Staff Training Unit in collaboration with the Group
Lending Coordinator. The Staff Training Unit would determine priority
training needs, identify candidates for training, and prepare preliminary
training programs which would be submitted to the coordination Committee
for review and approval. A special effort would be made to include women
in the training program.
4.10     Group Lending:  The group managing committee would receive loan
requests from individual members and evaluate them on the basis of the crop
budgets and farm models supplied by AFC, and make sure that the applicant
is not a defaulter or a dependent of a defaulter. It would then
consolidate all approved loan requests into a single loan application which
would be submitted to AFC, separating the application into seasonal and
term loans. For the first three years of group borrowing, AFC staff would
assess loan applications against the crop and/or farm models and also make



- 33 -
sure that the group is willing and able to maintain proper loan records.
After three years of good performance, AFC would leave all loan assessments
to the group. If the group loan is approved, AFC would authorize the group
to place orders with suppliers designated by the group in the loan
application, for the amount of loan relating to purchased inputs and
release cash to the group for the amount of approved loan relating to hired
labor. If any member of the group who is not an applicant for loan wishes
to buy inputs through the group on cash basis, he would be permitted to do
so, provided he pays cash on delivery or to the group and the group
deposits the cash with AFC. It would be the responsibility of the group
leadership to register "stop orders" on their borrowing members' marketing
cards with the marketing agencies. However, cash repayments by individual
members would be permitted at any time in which case the stop orders would
be revoked.
B. Strengthening AFC Capability
4.11     AFC would be responsible for implementing all aspects of this
component. This would include civil works for field office facilities,
procurement of vehicles and equipment, and implementation of the technical
assistance and consultancies financed by the EEC. It would rely on local
contractors for the construction of the field offices.
C. Cotton Ginnery and Storage Facilities
4.12     CMB would be responsible for the construction of the new cotton
ginnery, procurement of vehicles and equipment, and arranging overseas
training of key ginnery technicians in electrical, mechanical, and
hydraulic fields, It would hire the services of a firm of architect-
engineers to design the ginning and post-harvest facilities and the
services of a contractor to undertake the construction works. It is
expected that the design of the new cotton ginning and related facilities
would be virtually identical to that of the facilities recently constructed
at Bindura; the mission examined the design for the Bindura ginnery and
found it satisfactory. Implementation Schedule would be as shown in Chart
4. Site selection for the ginnery site has been done. Detailed designs,
technical specifications and preparation of tender documents and award of
contracts would be completed by March 1990. Tender documents would be
reviewed by the Bank before invitation of bids, and contracts would be
submitted to the Bank for review before the contracts are awarded.
Mobilization would take place in April 1990; all works and installation of
machinery and equipment would be completed by June-July 1991. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained to the effect that the architect-
engineers to design and supervise, and contractor to conduct the ginning
and related facilities would be selected in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and that their experience and qualification and terms of appointment
would be acceptable to the Bank (para 6.03 (f]).
D. Horticultural Research
4.13     R & SS through MLARR would assume the overall responsibility for
the implementation of the post-harvest horticultural research component.
The facilities for the research would be established at the Institute of
Horticultural Research at Harondera, which is under R & SS. Sites for



- 34 -
civil works have already been identified and are within the compound of the
Institute. Civil work would be carried out by private contractors under
the supervision of the Ministry of Construction. Specifications for
equipment for cold and cool storage, laboratory equipment and vehicles
would be prepared and procurement undertaken by the Institute through R &
SS.
E. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14     AFC, CMB, and R & SS would prepare semi-annual progress reports
for their respective project components which would include a summary of
operations, use of project funds, and factors bearing on implementation
progress and, in the case of AFC, achievements of the EEC technical and
consultant assistance, and status of loan repayments. These reports would
be submitted to the Bank not later than two months after the end of each
half-year. In addition, the Borrower would carry out an indepth mid-term
review during 1992, for the purpose of assessing implementation progress of
various activities of the prcject. The terms of reference of the review are
expected to be along the lines shown in Annex 6; and would thus include
reviewing: status of AFC's loan arrears, financial conditions and
performance, staff training and terms of service, arrangements to raise
funds from non-governmental local sources, lending policies and procedures;
and the performance of the group lending pilot scheme. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the review would be undertaken, its repoit
submitted to the Bank for comments by the end of March 1992, and that
recommendations emerging from the review would be implemented in
consultation with the Bank (para 6.03 tg]).
4.15     Each project implementing agency would be responsible  for
monitoring implementation progress regarding its respective project
components. The most important monitoring activities concern the credit
component. In this regard, AFC's M & E unit would focus on the impact on
farm production and income of activities financed under the project. The
results of these analyses would be utilized for such purposes as
modification of crop budgets and investment models, adjustment of appraisal
criteria, and preparation of the mid-term and Project Completion Reports.
The scope and methodology of the evaluation work would be determined in
consultation with the Bank. AFC, CMB and R & SS would also prepare, for
the component falling under each agency, a Project Completion Report (PCR),
the content and format of which would be agreed with the Bank, to be
submitted to the Bank within six months following the project closing date.
At negotiations. assurance would be obtained to this that the PCR would be
done accordingly (paras 6.2 [i] and 6.03 th]).



- 35 -
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. General
Beneficiaries:
5.01     Project beneficiaries would consist of both smallholders and
commercial farmers. It is estimated that, by 1993/94, the number of
smallholders borrowing from AFC would have increased from the present
73,600 to about 118,000 and that incrementel borrowers among smallholders
under the project would amount to 44,400, involving a population of about
266,400. Although the number of borrowers from among the commercial
farmers is expected to increase substantially, it is difficult to estimate
how many of them would benefit from the proposed project since the project
would provide funds only to those farmers growing priority commodities for
export and import-substitution. The incremental number of smallholders
under the project would amount to about 5.5Z of the total CAFs at present,
and a substantial number would consist of women, since nearly 511 of the
farm households in the communal areas are de facto headed by women. While
the incremental number is modest in proportion to the total CAEs, many of
these farmers are not in a position to make use of agricultural credit
because infrastructure and ecological constraints render credit alone
insufficient to ensure profitable farming of cash crops. The project
would, therefore, aim at those farmers facing little, or are in a position
to deal effectively with infrastructural and ecological constraints.
5.02     Production:  Except in the case of cotton lint, it is not possible
to estimate meaningfully the likely increase in agricultural production.
The reasons are that project activities wo'ild be spread over widely varying
ecological conditions and farming systems; and that project funds would not
be earmarked for any individual crop, the only restriction being that, to
qualify for credit under the project, commercial farmers must be involved
in growing import-substitution and export crops. However, the project is
expected to help increase the production of various commodities both for
the domestic and export markets, thereby continuing to ensure food
security, contribute to foreign exchange earnings, and raising rural
incomes. With regard to cotton ginning component, the project would help
to process 25,000 tons of seed cotton, yielding about 8,750 tons af lint
and about 16,250 tons of cotton seed.  About 70X of the lint would be
exported, earning about Z$11.7 million (US$6.6 million) in the second year
and Z$15.2 million (US$8.5 million) in the sixth year. Cotton seed would
yield about 4,000 tons of cooking oil, or 122 of the consumption in the
country.
5.03     Institutional Benefits.  The project would strengthen CHB
institutional capability by training technicians entrusted with the
operation and maintenance of all its ginneries. It would particularly
strengthen APC institutional capacity by promoting group-lending,
encouraging the adoption of better loan procedures, supporting measures to
reduce arrears, and reinforcing AFC's field presence.



- 36 -
B. Costs and Benefits Analysis
5.04     Overall Proiect.  As noted above, the credit component would
finance a wide range of crops, under widely varying ecological conditions,
cropping patterns, and farming systems. In view of this and the fact that
farmers would be left free to decide the crops for wY'ch they wish to
borrow, it is not possible to carry out a meaningful analysis of financial
and economic rate of return for the project as a whole. Therefore, the
justification of the project is based on the assessment of costs and
benefits for individual components, using crop budgets in cases involving
only seasonal credit, and rates of return in cases involving medium-and
long-term loans, and cotton ginning.
5.05     Crop Budgets for Seasonal Credit.  This applies to smallholders
producing mainly maize, cotton, soyabeans, groundnuts, sunflowers, and
tobacco. Annex 5, Tables 1 to 6 show the detailed crop budgets for these
crops, with gross margins summarized in Table 5.1 below. While returns are
attractive in all cases, they vary widely according to both the crops and
ecological regions. Thus, return to labor is significantly below minimum
wage (US$3.80 per man-day) for cotton and soyabeans in Regions III, and for
groundnuts in Region II. In incremental terms, return to labor is most
attractive for groundnuts in Region III, followed by maize in both regions
II and III: they are least attractive for sunflowers in Region II, followed
by tobacco under medium-level technology, soyabeans and cotton in Region
II. The wide variation of returns underscores the need for AFP to adopt
loan appraisal procedures that relate credit to expected returns as set out
in para 4.02.



- 37 -
Table 6.1 One Hectare Crop Budget (ZS)
Gross Margins               ReturniMan-day
Without With                Without  With
Project Prolect Increm.     ProTect  Project  Increm.
Maize
Natural Region II          98.1   226.8   80.2          2.8      5.0      2.2
Natural Region III         41.8   181.8   90.2          1.8      4.8      2.6
Cotton
Natural Region II         178.6   298.6  126.0          2.8      8.7     0.9
Natural Region III         92.0   220.8  128.8          1.7      8.8      1.6
Soyabeana
Natural Region II         188.8   248.0  104.4          2.7      8.9      1.2
Natural Region III        101.7   184.8   78.1          2.1      2.9     0.8
Groundnuts
Natural Region II         117.2   229.9  112.7          2.2      8.4      1.2
Natural Region III         88.4   319.8   70.9          1.4      5.6     4.1
Sunflowers
Natural Region II         168.5   265.4   86.9          B.9      4.6     0.6
Natural Region III         94.1   174.8   80.7          2.6      8.*      1.8
Virginia Tobacco
Medium Tech.              718.7  1016.7  298.0          8.6      4.9     0.7
High Tech.                718.7  1278.6  560.8          8.6     65.       1.7
5.06      Medium- and Lon_-Term Credit.  The main commodities involving
medium- and long-term loans under the project are poultry for smallholders
and wheat and horticultural products for commercial farmers. Annex 1,
Tables 7 to 11 show the cost and benefit analysis for these commodities,
with rates of return summarized in Table 5.2. The economic rates of return
are satisfactory in all cases, ranging from 25Z for smallholder poultry to
41Z for annual flowers. On the other hand, the financial rate of return is
marginal for annual flowers at 13?, and ranges from 182 for smallholder
poultry to 28Z for roses. The wide discrepancy between financial and
economic rates of return largely reflects the over-valuation of the local
currency combined with uneconomic minimum wages.



- 38 -
Table 5.2 Financial and Economic Rates of Return
Financial          Economic
Rate of Return    Rate of Return
(Percent)          (Percent)
Smallholder Poultry                    18                  25
Wheat                                  16                   36
Roses                                  28                   47
Annual Flowers                         13                   48
Passion Fruit                          27                  44
5.07     Cotton Ginning.  The cotton component as a whole comprises three
transit depots outside the area served by the proposed new ginnery, spare
parts for the existing ginneries, and a workshop to service light repairs
and maintenance of all CMB ginneries; the total cost of these sub-
components is about US$6.8 million. The main benefits from the depots
would consist of lo,Ter transport costs to producers. For the spare parts
and workshop, the main benefits would be reduced operation and maintenance
costs in the eight existing ginmeries, and preservation of quality of lint.
Because of the difficulties in qualifying these benefits without spurious
results, these sub-components have not beea included in the cost and
benefit analysis.
5.D8     As Annex 5, Tables 12 and 13 show, the base financial rate of
return is most unsatisfactory at minus 202.72 and differs considerably from
the ecoromic rate of return of plus 24%, thereby indicating seriou.s
distortions in the pricing policy. Aprart from over-valuation of the local
currency, producer prices have averaged about 202 above the border-price
equivalent during 1986-88 while prices of lint sold to domestic textile
manufacturers have been kept below the bord^r-price equivalents. Also,
cotton seed prices are set at levels considevably below the prices of other
oilseeds. Although CMB's costs, especially ginning and overhead expenses,
have tended to rise faster than revenues and there is, therefore, an urgent
need to improve CMB's efficiency, this alone would be inadequate to improve
the financial rate of return satisfactorily in the immediate future, given
that a reduction of CMB's costs by 20% would leave the financial rate of
return negative by 22 (table 5.4, b [ii]). On the other hand, adjusting
seed cotton prices to border-price equivalent would yield a financial rate
of return of 19.9X. Measures to ensure a satisfactory financial rate of
return are, therefore, esseatial. A better approach is to combine a number
of measures which would improving CMB's efficiency and adjusting the prices
of seed cotton, cotton seed and local lint; for example, a rate of return
of about 20.3% can be attained through reducing CMB's costs by 5%,
increasing the price of local lint by 8%, increasing the price of cotton
seed by 10X, and by adjusting seed cotton prices by 15% (Table 5.4 [f]).
Measures to ensure a satisfactory financial rate of return must, therefore,
include realigning domestic prices appropriately with world prices. At
negotiations, assurance was obtained the Borrower will take appropriate
measures to rectify the situation (para 6.04 (a]).



- 39 -
Table 5.4: Financial and Economic Rates of Return (2)
Financial      Economic
(a)  Base                                     (202.7)         26.8
Switching
Values
(b)  Operating Cost                                            56.0
(i)   Down 52                            (18.9)
(ii)   Down 102                           (10.2)
(iii)  Down 202                            (2.0)
(c)  Local Lint Prices 1/                                     59.4
(i)   Equal Export Prices                (12.2)
(d)  Cotton Seed Prices                                        73.0
(i)   Up 262 2/                           (1.3)
Cii)   Up lOX                             (12.1)
'e)  Seed Cotton Prices                                       14.6
(i)   Down 102                             7.4
Cii)   Down 15Z                            14.0
Ciii)  Down 202                            19.9
'f)  b (i)+c(i)+d(ii)+e(ii)                    20.3
1,   Up 8z
2/   Equal 60Z of soyabean prices
C. Project Risks
5.09     Credit ComRonent.  Apart from droughts, the main risks bearing on
this component are primarily institutional in nature. Measures to reduce
arrears may not be rigorous enough, while the desire to reach more
smallholders quickly may lead to relaxation of credit evaluation standards.
Also, unless AFC succeeds in improving the quality of its services, it may
lose clients from commercial farmers, the only dependable source of net
revenues. This could weaken AFC's financial condition and its capacity to
provide credit services. The project would seek to minimize these risks by
ensuring that AFC to adhere to the lending policies and procedures set out
in para 4.02 above; by strengthening AFC field capability through expanding
field offices and staff, and easing, through group lending approach, the
demands on its institutional capacity in order to enable it to improve the
quality of its services to both smallholders and commercial farmers; and by
providing for an indepth mid-term review of project implementation progress
in order to ensure that necessary corrective measures are taken in good
time.



- 40 -
5.10     Cotton Component.  The main risks bearing on this component stem
from the possibility that the political will may not be sufficiently strong
to undertake the necessary policy changes to eliminate CMB losses. To
minimize the risk assurances were obtained at negotiations that, as a
condition of disbursing project funds for the cotton component other than
the subsector study, the Government would take approriate measures to
eliminate CMB losses effective from 1990/91 (para 6.04 [a]).



- 41 -
VI. Agreements Reached and Recommendations
6.01     The following actions were taken by AFC as conditions of
negotiations: recruitment and selection of the candidates financed by the
EEC for the posts of Financial Advisor and Training Specialist, and
consultants to help improve management of the loan portfolio (paras 2.03,
2.10 and 2.14).
6.02     At negotiations, agreements were reached that AFC would:
(a) ensure that preliminary and final reports of the specialists
and consultants funded by the EEC technical assistance to AFC
would be submitted to the Bank for review and comments as
scheduled in Annex 1, Table 17; and Bank comments would be
taken into account in the implementation of the
recommendations of the concernec  reports (paras 2.02, 2.03,
2.10, 2.13);
(b) take action to reduce arrears relative to total outstanding
portfolio to not more than 35Z during 1989/90, 25Z during
1990/91, and 15? during 1991/92 and thereafter (para 2.09)
(c) maintain separate accounts for the project funds, prepare and
submit to the Bank audited accounts not later than six months
after the end of the financial year, with specific audit
comments on SOEs and the use of funds from the Special
Accoint, and with accountd audited by an independent firm of
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para 3.23);
(d) adopt a procedure whereby (i) evaluation of seasonal credit
is based on a typical crop or farm budget prepared every
year, showing cost/benefit ratios, gross margins, and return
on labor, and grant credit only in cases where gross margins
are adequate to cover credit repayment and leave attractive
returns to labor; (ii) evaluation for term loans not
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent is based on a typical farm
model and loans exceeding that amount on appraisal of
individual application, showing financial and economic rates
of return and net cash flow projections, with loans granted
only in cases where the rates of return are at least 132
(para 4.02);
(e) limit the amount of loan to a single borrower to a maximum of
US$250,000 equivalent (para 4.02);
(f) modify the stop-order system so that the amount to be
deducted by each marketing agency is proportionate to the
amount of loan the farmer borrowed for the concerned crop
(para 4.04);
(g) make foreign exchange available to farmers through the
mechanism as set out in para 4.06-4.07; and



- 42 -
(h) assume the primary responsibility for coordinating the
agencies involved in promoting the Group Lending Pilot
Scheme; ensure that the selection of areas and groups to
participate in the Group Lending Pilot Scheme, as well as the
administration of credit under the scheme, are in accordance
with Criteria and procedures set out in Annex 4; appoint a
Group Lending Coordinator from among its senior staff and
provide him with the necessary logistic support; constitute a
Coordination Committees, at the provincial and district
levels as may be appropriate, including representatives of
MLARR, MCCDWA, MLGRUD, Association of NGOs and AFC's Group
Lending Coordinator;; and assign a loan supervisor in each
district exclusively for the Pilot Scheme activities (para
4.08).
(i)  prepare a Project Completion  Report for their respective
components, as may be agreed with the Bank, and submit the
report to the Bank not later than six months after the
closing date of IBRD loan (para 4.15).
6.03     Agreements were also reached at negotiations that the Borrower
would:
(a) continue to ensure that producer prices are maintained at
levels that provide adequate incentives (para 1.12);
(b) review AFC's lending interest rates and adjust them
periodically in order to maintain them at least equal to the
prevailing prime rate charged by commercial banks and to
provide AFC with a spread sufficient to cover its fixed and
recurrent costs (paras 2.04, 2.05 and 2.11);
(c) carry out the horticultural export marketing and the cotton
subsector studies and submit the studies' reports to the Bank
for comments respectively not later than December 31, 1990
and June 30, 1990; and take Bank comments into account in the
implementation of the recommendations thereof (paras 1.10 and
2.15);
(d) assume the foreign exchange risks on IBRD loan under the
project (para 3.15);
(e)  ensure that CHB, MLARR-R & SS would maintain separate
accounts for the project funds, prepare and submit to the
Bank audited accounts not later than six months after the end
of the financial year, with specific audit comments on SOEs
and the use of funds from the three Special Accounts, and
with CMB accounts audited by an independent firm of auditors
acceptable to the Bank while MLALR-R & SS accounts would be
audited by the Auditor-General (para 3.23);
(f) ensure that, for the construction of the cotton ginnery, CMB
would appoint design architect-engineers and contractors



- 43 -
according to Bank guidelines and with qualifications and
experience, and under terms acceptable to the Bank (para
4.12);
(g) carry out an indepth mid-term review of implementation
progress of the various project activities, submit to the
Bank for comments the review's report by not later than
March 31, 1992, and implement the recommendations of the
review in consultation with the Bank (para 4.14); and
(h)  ensure that CMB, and MLARR-R & SS would prepare a Project
Completion Report for their respective components, as may be
agreed with the Bank, and submit the report to the Bank not
later than six months after the closing date of IBRD loan
(para 4.15).
6.04     Special Conditions:
(a)  before any project funds are disbursed for the cotton
component other than the cotton subsector study, the Borrower
would have adopted appropriate measures that will enable CMB
to generate increased revenues from its operations so as to
eliminate the deficit in its trading accounts effective from
CMB's financial year 1990/91 and thereafter (paras 2.18 and
5.08);
6.05     Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  filling the post of AFC's Deputy General Manager (Finance)
with a candidate having qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank (para 2.03); and
(b)  execution of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Bank under which the Government would on-lend IBRD funds to
AFC and CMB at 9.752 interest rate and 15-year maturity
including 3-year grace period (para 3.15); and
(c) effectiveness of IFAD and BADEA loans.
Recommendations
6.06     Subject to the above, the project is suitable for an IBRD loan of
US$36.3 million.



- 44 -
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
ANNEXES



- 45 -
Annex 1
Table 1
Interest Rate Structure (Percent per Annum)
A. Lending Rates (September 1988)
Overdraft (minimum rate)                                 13.0
Acceptance crdits (minimum rate)                          11.00
Hire-purchase                                            20.00-22.00
Mortgage
Residental Property                                 13.25
Commercial Poultry                                  14.25
B.  DePosit Rates (September 1988)
3 Months        12 Months        24 Months
Commercial Banks                8.25-9.50       8.75-10.15       9.25-10.25
Acceptance Houses               8.50-9.50       9.75             9.75-10.50
Finance Houses                  8.25            9.00-9.12       11.50-12.50
Building SocieS.ies             7.75            9.75            10.00
Post Office Saving Bank         8.50            10.00           -



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
AFC Lending Program; 1980-88
Sectoral Distribution of AFC Annual Loan Disbursements
Fiscal       CAs and             Smaill-Scale       Larse-Scale
Resettlement       Commuercial       'Commercial         Total
Year          No       Z$mio    No       Z$mio      No       Z$mio    No           Z$mio
1980181.     1-8,000     4.2    3,'333     3.7      2,526     86.9    23,859         94.8
1981182       31,061    10.6    3,649      4.6      2,103     88.8    36,813        104.0
1982183       43.066    14.7    2,953      4.5      1,645     88.7    47,664        107.9
1983/84       69,910    34.0    3.052      8.1      1.400    110.2    74,362        152.3
1984/85      85,719    40.7    2,744       8.7      1,484    110.3    89,94?        159.7
1985186       91,392    47.3    2,569    11.5       1,308    113.0    95,269        171.8
1986187       89,184    68!6    1,910      9.6      1,007      94.9    92,101       173.1
1987/88       80,994    48.6    1,521       5.5       866      99.1    83,381       154.2



- 47 -
ZIMBABWE                                                     ANNEX  1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT                                             Table  3
AFC Actual and Projected Lending Program (1985/86-1993/94) 1/
,.  ""R urWm  V                                   M as                       ----I'm'fw l-----1-1- -rubjenc2ed-l----  _-_"'
Short-teem                              662       6        610       6N       m"        750       625       910     1000
-    edium- and lon-tm                      446      346       372       890      410       460       495      1108 
(b)  =I-Scal Com.         re
-  Sh-e rmM                                          16"      1299      1        1488      1i56      1740     1920      2120
ftdlua- and Lane-term                   285       212      248       255       270      300       350       36       400
(e) Communal & Rettlemet Scheme Paruwa
-   Shm-b  d L1102026                             6      73549    7600    62500    91500   100500   10900   116100
*-liu_ end Long-term                  11126      5925     7481       SW0      600      9500    10500    11500    12500
I.      AVEAOE LOAN SUE (Z)S.
(a) LorScn   Cow_rei 2 Fnr_r-
-  Shca-e  C era                         10rme     1172r    1403   16369    174052   1920    21321    2               262525
-  Medium- ad Longterm                    47960    5075    515s        "716    69767    77347   a848         9794   10506
C) Seall-Scele Coml. F1rer.
Short-term   *940                               4S       s3937     4440      4724               577      6417      71126
Medium- mnd Lonterm                    6772        6      66        772       a52      9124    10064    111ZI    12417
(e) C_*m1n  A Remettlemwnt Schem  Farer
-  Short-ter                                 34      7         734       629        l       976      1079     119       1329
-  MIw- and Low-tere                        40   60             7        a        64        76       650      -O940 _   104
M.        W4L LOAN OISUW54   (Z6 M) 0
(a) Large-Scale Comorerel Farmr
- Short-term                               91.6     77.3      69.6    106.5    119.2    144.7    178.9    213.1   202.5
-  Mdium_- and Long-ter                    21.4      17.6     21.       205.6    46.6      364.      42.8     51.7      63.2
Ct) Smil-ScaleCaaml. Farer
-  Short-term                               9.0      7.7       5.1      6.1       6.6       8.8     10.1    1U.3        16.1
Meiu- VWd Long-term                     2.5       1.9      1.7       2.0      2.2       2.7       3.8      4.1       5.0
Ce)  om_I &l Rdettlemerk SCheme Fnrmr.
-  Short-term                              42.9     63.6      54.1      64.7     72.7      69.8    106.4    1S1.0    157.5
-  Medium- end Lane-tjrm                    4.5      5.0       4.3      5.2       5.9       7.3      6.9      10.6      15.1
IV.     9UWAY OF AMWAL LON One. (Z 11)
Ca) Comereiml Farmer
-  short-term                             100.6     U5.0      9.       112.6    16.0    180.0    166.0    227.4   m26
-  Medium mad Lang-term                    23.9     19.5      23.8     27.6      S0.6      37.5     45.6      55.6      6.2
_  Total                                  204.5    104.6    115.1    140.2    156.6    190.5   921.6    m.2    84.6
tb) OIUMMal Are & Othr Sel l4cale Frmege
-  Shor-ter                                42.9     65.6      54.1     44.?      72.7      66.5    100.4    151.0    17.5
Medium- md Long-ter                         4.6      5.0       4.8      5.S       5.9
-  Total                                   47.4       .6      66.4     19.0      76.6       6.6    17.3    141.6    170.6
CO) Total Ln DiObursoments
Short-term                            148.5    146.     a 6 14.6    1778     19.7    242.8    24.4    315.4    435.1
-  Medium- VW L*n-trm                      26.4     24.5      27.6     3S20      56.7      44.a       4.5     66.6      61.8
-  Total                                  7n1.9    178.1    176.4    210.1    253.4   2067.1    84.9    425.0    51.4
V.      i         YLOW WAW                        1551.4    166.2     90.8    175.6    206.9    246.3    31.7    315.3    440.6
VI.     Pr   AU 40   OF WAR                       2M6.      295.2    36.3    415.6    447.8    4J6.1          .S      595.0    670.6
Viz.     MWNOLOM                                     -         6.9      66.1     34.5      81.5      40.6     35.2      71.9     73.S
Th .rm gDIebure"ents refer. to menut If loans given durin  a year  and ne  frtol l  at the ed.of the year.
Proepcte  Inremnm  In the number of loan. diebured each year fro  19A/69 through 193/94 * estimated by AF.
Pr6J emted Inrese in the *vermge loen siz, from 19116/69 trough 1993/94 1- due to Inflation forecasted In accordance with World en
setiote.m, below$
1967/66   1963/69  1Wl960  1990/91  1991/90   199/93   199/94
Inflation Rate (S)               -        13.5     11.5      11        11       i1        11
Ftor                             1.00.    1.15       1.20    .1.80      1.47      1.68     1.61
Represents mount rrtved m#by .ltiglicstion of number ef loan, with the amont of iverge loen  "ie.



- 48 -
ANNEX  1
ZIMBABWE                                      Table  4
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Status of Arrears (1983-88) 1/
Amount in Z$Million
1068         1Q64           196592                       1967           LIE
Short-togM Loan.
CA            2.6   16.6   9.6   40.7  13.3   39.8   9.6  13.6   26.1   48.6   60.0   66.6
RS            .3    5C.    1.9   26.6   L.I   44.7   3.8  31.1    7.6   60.9   14.1   74.9
ssc           1.?   26.4   8.a   45.7   4.9   36.7   3.a  28.1    7.3   59.4   12.    73.1
LSC         9     .  flUJ   23.6   Wl22 .2        2 4.5     19.  3     16.6    87   56.6   46.
Subtotal    14.6   14.5  J8.8    2 L   _2  ,29.,7  35.   21   1f.    43.2    ". -'-
Vedlum/Lons-Ter Loon,
CA            0.2   19.9   6.2    6.1   6.6   14.4   2.4  29.6    4.1   36.6    7.9    t.7
RS           as      no    no      no      0.6   19.9   1.9  47.6    2.7   U4.8    4.8   67.1
SSC           0.7   30.1   6.6   23.9   1.0   24.6   1.6  27.1    2.6           0.6    4.5   47.8
LSC           LA      0.6 6  I L A L.   12.6   13.9  16.1  176   10.6   17.3   24.    24 .
Sub-total     6.9   11.5   9.7   1tj.  14.9   14.6  22.0  20.1   29   21.    412                .
Total Loans  22.9   z       43.6   26.5  65.1   23.9  E7.9  ILl  IL            E*.d 3y iL 4S g.
23.9  S7.g,  29.1  192.7  .4.
If  *  S of loon arrears to outetanding loans Because AFC accounting Proeon door ro  provide
tie neceseary Informtlon, it I noet possible to detrmine the magnitud  of the  rrers
relativ* to the a*ounts due rather than th, total loan portfoliol, or to ase.on the *g9
-p"otion of thise arrears.
CA *  Comunal area famers
RS     Reett lment scheme famer
SOC *  Seal -ecal, co_.ercill famer.
LOC *  Lerge-cle coercial farmere
1/  Loan arrears as of March 31, 1983-88



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
AFC Income and Expenditure Statements; 1980-88
(Year Ending March 31)
U6             23 ^              l2.            26       5       2. 1            26.      S      26  1            26. 7             1m
2Wa      s      ZB       k      Zo       8       no       s      z                 oo              l       I       es      5       U
iamo o eet                   6.1    o6.4     o.8                                      o:.0    18.3 94.6    17.7  4.1    23.0 97.5    2.4    06.9    31.4   7S.?  6. 0    9 7    416    9 3 3
camii                        0.0     00       . 0.0                   0.00 .0  0.0 0          0.1    0.4      0.1      0.3     0.2     0.6     0.2    0.5       1.6    8.
other           1/           0.3     3.6     0.4     4.0     0.0      5.4     1.1     S.9    -0.1   -0.4       0.1     0.3     0.2     0.6     0.4      1.1     0.4     0.
total               6.4   100.0      9.9   100.0    14.7   100.0   S1.0   100.0    2a.6   100.0    29.a   100.0    12.6   100.0   87.4   100.0    44.S   100.0
..pemditure
p otne  opfS                t1.     22.6     3.0    a0.3      4.1    2.        .3    so.9     6.6    27.7     0.a    2S.3    10.3    81.4    12.1   82.4    18.9    31.0
tereet                      5.1    60.7  '.6    I6 .6         .0    14.4    10.6    36.4    14.8    60.1    17.0    Se.0    18.5    56.4    19.9   53.2    24.7   58.1
bad debt        2/           0.7     6.3     1.0    10.1     0.4     2.7      4.4    23.4     4.     19.3     4.9   16.7    6.1    16.6    7.8    19.          6.6    14.7
depreciatio                  0.1     1.2     0.1    1.1      0.1     0.?      0.4     2.1     0.8     1.8     0.4      1.4     0.      2.4     1.1     2.      1.5    3.
eotel               7.6    62.9      9.9   100.0    12.6   68.7    21.2   112.8    29.6   100.4    80.6   104.4    35.7   106.6    40.4   106.0    44.7   104.2
peratireg Income (ieee)     0.S      7.1     0.0     0.0     2.1    14.3   -2.4   -12.       -2.0    -0.4    -1.8    -4.4    -2.9      6.6    -.0   -0.0   -1.9    -4.2
refun af deficits                    0.0             0.0
on  fer oeratio ns/          0.2 o    :.4    0.6    I1       1:7    11.6       .     81:4     7:.    6:6.      .o    290:    10:.       .     11.2    29.9    10.3    23.0 o:
*Streadinaerp Items 4/       0.      0.      2.      92      0.      00        .0      .00   0        0.0     0.00   0         0.0     0.      0.0     0.      0.0     0.0         %
met Income                   0.6     9.5     2.6    28.3     5.6    29.9     6.8    16.6      5.9    24.0     7.2    24.6      7.6    23.2     6.2    21.9     0.4    16.7
fet mete.
I Fore   gearm 1O6-6. this figure Include. fes NW comaSwiam revemues
2  Inclde  bad det. on Seal I Fare Credit and Ramttle met Schem.
3 Wfre to cermtmg deficitse and be debt. imcerred en operatlim  1hdit ad Retb n Scem
4/ Profit. from male of officm premime.
Sowrc      f
info auie  finacilI etmmnt be 667 andpreieli   acout far 166



- 50 -
ANNEX 1.
Table 6
ZIMBABWE
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
AFC Prolected Income and Expenditure Statements (1989-94)
(Year Ending March 81)
1968      1989      1998       1991      1992       1998      1994
Actual  -----Pro ctl onu--------
-----------        Millon
Income
interest                    40.6      45.1       60.6      55.2      62.1       69.0      76.6
Others                       8.8       3.7        4.1       4.6        5.6       5.6       6.2
Total Incom                   48.9      48.8       54.7      59.7       67.1      74.6      82.8
Exegnitures
interest                    2C.5      27.8      81.1       84.6       88.2      42.5      47.1
Operating co.t.             18.9      15.9       17.9      19.7      21.8       28.6      24.6
Bad debts                    1.5       1.7        1.9       2.6        2.8       2 .6      2.8
Depreciation                 1.0       1.6        2.6        .3    8  8.8        8.5       8.6
Total Expenditures            41.0      47.0       58.5      58.9       65.8      71.6      78.2
Net Income                     2.0       1.7        1.2       0.9        1.8       8.O       4.6
OOZ Rlombur_amnts              6.7       6.4        7.1       7.7        8.7       9.7      10.8
Net Surpluses (Deficit)        7.7       8.1        .8        8.6       106.5     12.7      16.4
Ratlo  ()
Net Incoe/Total
Income                       4.6       8.6        2.2       1.8       2.7        4.0       6.6
Net Income/Net
Surpluses                   26.8      21.5       14.4,      9.0       16.2      23.6      29.0
Return on Equity J            11.7      10.2        9.        8.4        965      10.4       11.8
3/       et Surpluses/Average Equity



IflLIAL OMIT NO 60037  SUONTIN U 
isoc    awl             am~~~~~~~~~111  %to             iw4             am              z               low            1am
Zen      3      20.      U      zoo  I          26.      1      23       6      ag s            am 5 zo  a      Za.      I       3       3
0.8t1st "an .vm,eante       I.       1.       .       .       .       .       .       .       .2     17      66      14      50      16     1.        .0     0.7     1.7
SmotO lesslemma        60se .3    4.5   01.0    518    71      4.S66           4.    144.       W63 160A. 706                   0.      7.       .    U7.?    16.4
Nadim mmd lem,t.ra lamim    6s.  02.0 7.     44.7   72.2   40.1    71.8    43.4    60.5       71 136         166 194         8.      1.       M.A   I5146    U.0
Total lams pesifello       up.       1.     5.5     4.    100.4      .0 143         4.        a       .    i.       w.     us        46 162         6.4     6.8      4.
Pleaod emale                0.0      0.5    0.       .4      0       0.6     30       .      2.3     09       .0     17       .7      .3      .0      .5     8.      8.
other    to.g               0.4     0.5     82        .0     84      21       .8      .0      .7     1.1     8. 2    11.1    8.      1.1 -5.1        1.0    2.8      0.0
tatal     132.3   1030.0   157.    100.0   100.0   100.0   103.5   100.0   248.4   100.0   ml.7    0.0.o 80.61  2000   814.0   100.0   408.7   100.0
Liabi I 111.
t0 lorter loons        497     870     5.0     4.0      3.      2'4.6     .     00.    100.0    43.8   1050      ':.    0.    301.0    367    12.0G   61.0    13o 2.7
GU longterm Seam.          55.0    41.6    57.0   36.1    08.       4104   70.0    36.0    02.5    46.6   121.1   42.2   187.    48.        1115.6   89.0A   200.1    4.6.
Total PraI.a l  n'e       104.7    70.1   109.0   66.1   100.4    00.5   127.2    66.6   10.5    76.3   126.?   70.1   228.0    76.7   22.0   72.8   291.7    723.
Short toer                  8.       .      1.       .       60      55      10      0 116.1         7.8    15.8    8.8       1 7.0    5.   10.      5.8I   12.5    2.1:
Long toer                   0.       .       37      .71   20.      22.     10.2     6.      .0      31       .-06           11-.-56                 1.-. 2.
Total oIlier fun"d         10.0     0.0    20.0   17.?    20.4    10.4    37.8    15.2    24.1       6.6    10.0    6.8    1.5.      0.1    16.4     5.2    21.5     0.8
Upecufic purpose tu.es      0.0             0.0             0.0              0.0             0.0      -----0.1       0.0    0.2      0.1     0.4     0.1     0.0     0.1
tate~     115.9    07.0   1418.6     6.0   187.8   05.6   156.1    650   211.8    U66.    240.4   85.9   253.4   03.4   254.7    0.0.   =8.0   62.4
Caneral ,eeeryee           13.9    10.5    16.5   10.5    20.2    12.6   257    18.0         Me.   10.9    46.8    11.0   40.9    13.5   49.1    13.8   5W.         14.8
Sddebt r  erwaa            2.5      1.6     20 5    16    23.5      1.0   23.5      1.4     5.5     2.8     4.6     1.7    5.       1.0    4.91    1.0    4.6       1.3
creante                     0.0     0.0     a        :.       .0      .0 .0    00  00                0.0    2.1      0.7    4.       1.      7.      2.      04-  2.1 
total      16.4    12.4   19.0    12.0   22.7    14.2    26.2    14.4   832.1    13.2   40.3   14.1   00.6    10.5    01.8    16.4   70.6    17.1
Lisb;litios and networths    122.3   100.0  157.6   100.0   100.0   100.0   183.3   100.0  234.4   100.0   206.7   100.0   809.9   100.   310.0   100.0   403.7   100.0
Source
AFC auited fiamejal atateaanto to 1907 and provisionaS mecount. for 1966



-52-                                     ANNEX  1
Table  8
ZIMBABWE
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
AFC Proieted Balance Sheet Positions; 1989-94
(Year Ending March 31)
m9ta     1989      1990      1991      lO        1993      14
Actual    ----Proj  ction---------------------
~~-------Z$Million-------
Short-Term Aeset
Cash and Equivalents        6.6       20.2       1.9      38.a      17.2     86.0      27.6
Short-tern loans           218.4    284.2    274.7    267.5    316.9    882.7    394.1
Sub-total                271.9    254.4    275.3    279.8    386.1    879.7    421.9
Lona-Tern Ansets
Term loans                 1099.     165.1    175.4    194.2    191.3    228.6    265.4
Fixed assets                14.6      28.2      87.3      47.6      48.8     59.7      59.7
Sub-total                128.9    133.4    212.7    241.7    240.1    279.8    304.1
Total  Assts             394.9    442.3    468.4    689.5    676.2   6as.9    726.0
Current Liabilities
Current                      2.1       2.7       2.8       8.9       8.3       3.4      3.6
Short-tero loans
Governmnt                196.8      84.8      79.3      72.8      68.8      76.3     67.2
Others                    15.4      12.7      17.6      29.J      24.8      28.8      18.5
Sub-total (loans)      116.7      97.6      89.4      0a.1      93.1      99.3     106.?
Total current liab.        117.6    199.2       91.2    90.1        96.4    193.2     109.3
Long-tarn Liabilities
Long-tar loons
Governmnt
Project related                    6.0      14.2      24.6      25.4      21.6      29.1
Others                 199.9    238.0    277.8    ae3.6    833.9    831.4          429.7
Non-government             7.4       9.3       8.8       6.3       6.0       9.e      14.0
Total long-tarm loans    266.4    258.8    297.8    334.5         69.3    411.9    463.6
SPecial Funds                0.6       1.2       3.6       4.0       4.1       6.8       9.4
Total long-tarn llob.      207.0    254.6    869.6    388.6    863.4    418.7    473.2
Total liabilities          824.8    854.7    892.0    484.6    460.8    521.9    682.5
Equity Funds
Retained surpluess        61.7      69.3      78.1      86.6      97.1    169.8    126.2
Orants                     8.4      18.3      13.3      18.8      13.3      18.3      13.3
Total equity                70.1      83.1      96.4    104.9    116.4    128.1    148.6
Total Liabilitios a Equity  894.9    442.8    489.4    539.5    576.2    659.9    726.0
Ratios
Current                    2.8       2.5       3.o       3.1       3.6       3.6       3.9
Leverage                  17.8      19.9      19.7      19.4      28.0      19.7      19.8
Debt/Equity                4.6       4.6       4.1       4.1       4.0       4;1       4.6



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
ZIEADWE
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
AFC Source and Appllcatlon of Fundgi iQAB-QA
988    1969       199       1991      19        1983    1994
Actubi -        ----Projections
Source of Funds                     _            ----M--------__ --_
Internal
Surpluse                 7.7       6.1       8.8       6.5     16.5      12.7      16.4
Depreciation              1.0       1.6       2.8       8.8      8.3       8.6       8.6
Subtotal                 8.7       9.7      16.9      11.8     13.6      16.2      16.9
External
Govern ment term loans
Project related                    6.6       6.2      10.4       0.6     -8.9      -1.4
Othore                  12.6      40.6      41.1     26.6      24.7      57.7.     65.4
Non-government term loans  1.4       1.9      -8.6      0.6    -4.8         8.6       6.0
Grants                     6.4       0.9       _.6       L6       6.6       6._       6.6
Sub-toetal              22.4      56.4      46.8      87.6     25.2      60.8      59.6
Total Sources               81.1      68.3      67.2     48.6      89.0      78.0      77.9
Ap.licatlon of Funds
Purchase of fixed assets   6.8       6.7      14.0      10.2       1.8      1.9       0.0
Repayment of Trom Dobts    2.6       2.6       2.6       2.6      2.6       6.0       8.6
Inore In agri. term
credt                     6.0      55.8      16.8      18.8     -2.9      87.8      24.6
Total appiletlon         16.9      67.1      26.9     81.6        1.0    .46.2      82.6
Changes In Working Capital   20.2      1.0      86.8     17.2      86.0      27.8      46.1
Chances In Workina Capital
Current Assets            82.9    -16.6       21.8     22.1      38.S      84.6      61.2
Current Liabilitins       62.7   (-17.6)    (-9.0)      4.9       o.3       6.8       6.1
Noet                    20.2       1.0      86.8      17.0     38.0      27.8      46.1



ZDMABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
CMB Income & ExpentIttura aLaLements; 1980-88
------ - -------------- - - - - --------------- - -- - --                        .._.(Pev--fr%A  RnA  __                            2,i)                                                         -_
19M                 19111               im                  19013      -                            19"                 1"S                                     1'1 .
ES                  at                  4111                at               . at                                                                               at
ad CoLton Cina*4                       365.3               104                 I"  7               M                   in  -t              250                 293                 248.3               240.5
Sales ENPOrt                         66.5                44::                51:2                521                 49:7                W: 'a               72:3,               68.1                $7.1
Local                         10                  19.3                12 7                12 1                so                  22 4                24 1                26                  28 7
'LLO. So"  Sales                        97:                107.1               126:2               104:0               1001                L29:4               158:2               177:1               145:4
lating 5004 Sales                        3.3                 3.0                 4.2                 4.3                 4.6                 7.0                 5.9                 7.3                 7.5
IAL PWOPPANCE                      Zs s          s      Is           s      n  a         s      Zs o         9      Zs           s      Zs a         2      Zs s         5      Ze th        I      Zs           2
0ME
ra"
Lint                                 64.1      77.4      70.3      70.0      73.1      72.0      74.2    .74.4       WA        74.0    144.1       69.4    165.4        641.4    129.3      $0.0    154.2       IS. 3
L;:% Local                           10. 9     23.2      15.0      18.2       15.2     26.0      14.2      14.3      14.4      11.7      33.0       17.2      40.3      16.4      43.4      20.3      40.0      19. 5
ci nod Seed                           7.4       8.9      10.3       10.4      12.4     12.4      10.6      10. a     14.3      11.9      24.7       12.9      33.0      13 8      40.9      19.0      SCS       14.6
De I iftt-ed Seed                     0.4       0.5       0.5       0.5        0.6      0.4       0.6       0.6       0.9       0.7        1.0       0.5       1.2       0.6       1.5       0.7       1.6       0.7
-------------------------------- - ----------------- -  ------                                -         --------------- - ---------------------- - ------------ - -  -----------
S.b-Totof                            82.S    100.0       99.1    100.0    101.5    100.0         ".5    too.0    IM.5    100.0    207.4    100.0    239.9    100.0    215.5    100.0    2.U.3    100.0
..;n/Lows m  For                           0                           0.0                           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       9.9       3.3      -0.4       -0.2       0.5       0.2       0.6       0.3
fonoport Broker                           .6       .0      11.6                 ': 3'   -31.01    -10.3    -10.4    -12.5    -10.1    -17.6          -8.5    -22.6        -9.4    -21.1       -9.4    -19.3       -4.2
etc.            -100       -102 8    -         -11.7    -12
-----------------------------------            -------                                       - ---- - --------------------- I--------------------------- - ---------- - -------
t. Ravi i ztsticn                       72.2      W.2       G?. 6     66.3      44.2      87.1      ".2       69. I    211.0      99. 9    194.9      0416    MA           90.4    194.'l    . 90.4    217.6       92.1
,301TURES
----------------------
,ct CCOLS
-te of Seed Cotton                     Si 0      68.8      70.8      71.4      71.3      70.2      $5. I     65.3      79.2      94.1    103.7       $0.0    184.0       77.0    192.6        89.3    141.1      80.9
6 3       7.6       8.0       6.1      10. a     10.4      11.3      11.4      14.0      32.0      23.6      11.4      30.7      12.8      34.2      15.9   i 30.1       15.3
PlodUCLIOn E.0"004                  0.6       a 7       0.6       O.$       0.0       0.8       1.2       1.2       1.8       1.2       1.0       0.9       2.4        1.0      2.5        1.2       4.5       1.9
:-hoti.o E-PoAaa                           0       0.0       0.0       0.0                                                                                                    0      .0.2      a I
.1      0. I      0.I       O.t       U         0:0       O:'      - 00: S2    30: 02   0:P       01        0:0      00:30      0:   ,   1.1         0:3       T 3'      0 a
----- ---------------- -------------           --------- - -
TOTAL                                64.0      77.3      79.3      80.2      82.6      $I.$      90.4)     ".5       93.7      T7.5    3,29.3      62.3'  216.2        91.0    230.5    107.0    233.6          ".4
3!5 KAMM                                 8.2       9.9       0.0       a. I      4.4       6.3      -6. 9     -5.8      13.3      12.4      47.6      32.6      -1.3      -0. 5    -35.6    -16.6    -15.9         47                    Ln
.0,084 Costs
Salories A V gas                         0 2       0.2       0.2       10:1       1-3      0.3       0.4       0.4       0.3       0.4        1.0       0.5       1.3       0.3,      2.0       0.9       2.3       1.0
ANA a CM   C?.:rooa                      0 6       0.7       0.7           , t    0.6      0.6       0.7       0.7        1.2       1.0       0.5       0.2       0.5       0.2       0.4       0.2       0.4       0.2
0 1       0.1       0.1       0 1       0.1       0.1       2.0       2.0       0.1       0.1       0.2       0.1       0.3       0.1       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.1
0.0         O                o.j        -        0: 0,     0:1       I- 21     1:30      1:20      1 1       1:0       1:1       0.0       1. SI     0         1-1       0:3
O         0         a           0                   2       0         a         0         0:3                                     a         0:2
c     rocoss.he                          0.0                   .0                          0         0                                                  0 a       0 3       0.2                   2       0.7       a 3
0.1       a I       0.1       1:1       I         1:1       ::I       0:3       0:1         3       0:01     1-61      1:2       '1:11      0          1.2.    0:1
B.O. charges                   7       3.3       2 8                 4            1      6 4          4      4 I       7 a       ::4        4         7.        3 2       9.        4:1       2.0       5 I
1t r                                    2.                                -------             -----             .  .....
--------------------                                                                                         ------  .......                                               ------
to$ G.erboads                            3.7       4.6       3.9       3.0       5.5       5.4       9.8       0.8      11.0       0.9       1018       5.2       11.41     4.1      14.4       4.7      27. 6      7.4
------------------- i------ ; -------- W. ;-----                                                             -  ----- - --- -  --------------------------------- -- - ----
eraCalp Surplue (Deficit)                  .5      5.4       4.          .1                 0.9    -10.8    -19.7         4.8       3.5                   4    -11.1       -4.8    -50.0    -23.2    -33.5    -14.2
t,sora."ry ILeas                         0,0       0.0-'---D.O         0.0   .  0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      -3.9      -1.6      -3.2      -I.S      -1.3      -0. a
r Suw%ui W icrT)                        _;. ;      ;-; -    -4-1       ci        O. -9                       -18.7                                                  ---------            ------ 2-4-7- ------- n --- O_,"__14 --- a'
funds and appropriations                 0.0       0.0      .4                     .!       0.0      0.0       0.8        0.0       O.       8.1       3.9      -6.6      -2.6      -7.0      -3.2       0.7       4.1
-------------------------             I------                                                    - -       -- - -------------------- - ---- - --- - -------------------------------
fAIW13D %M%M  (DEFICM                    4.5       S.4       0.0       0.0       0.9       0.9    -17'.0    -IT.0         4.3       3.5      ".9       41.3    -21.8       -9.1    -60.2    -27.9    -25.3    -10.7
wrao. CMD audited financial atstewenLs to 19117 and provisional accounts for lglo
cr
1-44
C



- 55 -
ZIMBAWE                                                                              ANNU I
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT                                                                    table Il
CMB Prolected Income and Expenditure Statements; 1989-94
(For the periods to Z8 Feb.)
1989              !9;!               1991                1992               199!                :Z
.. .     . _.. ,............ "... ..._. . .. ....... .. ..... .... .....................................................
fimancial performance                          Zte       I        ISe                lle           2    lIe           2    lle           2      ISe         2
intern
Mross Sleslint *xports                7/           192.0     63.8    234,3      65.5    265.0      66,2    244.5      67.8    272.8      69.8    339.6      70.6
lint local                  8t            67.2     22.3      72,1     20.2      77.0      19.2     67.2      18.6     65.6      16.8     90.3      16.7
einne'd sod e9l                           39.3      13.1     48.5     13.6      55.3      13.8     46.4      12.9     49.6      12.7     57.8      12.0
dinted Seed                to10/          2.3      0.8       2.7      0.7       3.0       0.8      2.5       0.7      2.7       0.7      3.2       0.7
sub total                      300.9    100.0    357.6    100.0    400.3    100.0    360.7    100.0    390.7    100.0    480.9    100.0
0.0                0.0
gainIlossi aR exchange                               0.4      0.1       0.5      0.1       0.6      0.1       0.6      0.2       0.7      0.2       0.9      0.2
transport,brokerage ettc              Ill          27.6       9.2     24.6       6.9     26.6       6.6      22.9      6.4     23.9       6.1      27.8      5.8
let realisations                                  273.7      91.0    333.5      9 .2    374.4      93.5    338.4      93.8    367.5      94.1    454.0      94.4
spenditere
diret costs
purchue  of seed cotton    121           269.5      89.6    314.0     87.8    357.8       89.4    300.5      83.3    321.2      82.2    374.4      77.9
ginning expenses             13/          51.9      17.2     60.4      16.9     68.9      17.2     57.8      16.0     61.8      15.8     72.1      15.0
croe  eroduction expenus    14/            6.4      21        7.5      2.1       8.6       2.1      7.2       2.0      7.7       2.0      8.9       1.9
earkatang                    15/           1.7       0,6      2.0       0.6      2.3       0.6      1.9       0.5      2.0       0.5      2.4       0.5
engineering costs           16/            1         0.5      1.6       0.4      1.8       0.4      1.5       0.4      1.6       0.4      1.9       0.4
._ ......  .. . __ ....... _. ..............._..
sub total                      330.9    110.0    385.5    107.8    439.2    !00.1    368.9    102.3    394.3    100.9    459.7           95.6
grOss targin                                      -57.2    -19.0    -52.1    -14.6    -64.8    -16.2    -30.5         -9.5    -26.8      -6.9      -5.7     -1.2
overhead costs
salaries and sages                         2.5      0.8       2.7      0.8       2.9       0.7      3.1       0.9     '3.        0.8      3.5       0,7
AN  /611 chagns                            0.4      0.1       0.4      0.1       0.4       0.1      0.4       0.1      0.4       0.1      0.4       0.1
insurances                                 0.4      0.1       0.5      0.1       0.5      0.1       0.5      0.1       0.5      0.1       0.5       0.1
travelling                                 0.7      0.2       0.5      0.1       0.6      0.1       0.7       0.2      0.8       0.2      0.9       0.2
dita procmsing                             0.7      0.2       0.5      0.1       0.6      0.1       0.7       0.2      0.8       0.2      0.9       0.2
other                                      0.5      0.2       0.7      0.2       0.7       0.2      0.9       0.2      0.9       0.2      1.1       0.2
ioterest I bank charges    17/            27.0      9.0      31.9      8.9      36.1      9.0      30.5      8.5      31.0      7.9      31.4       6.5
.... .... .. _.. _.............. ..... ._ ._..___ . _...._.._
sub total                       32.2      10.7     37.2      10.4     41.8      10.5     36.8      10.2     37.7       9.7     38.7       9.1
9.0
Pt surplus Ideficitl                  18/         -89.4    -29.7    -89.2    -25.0  -106.7    -26.6    -67.3    -18.7    -64.5    -16.5    -44.4            -9.2
11  assums out-turn ratios as follow: 351 lint; 641 cotton seed and 12 process losses
21  equivalnt to 702 of total lint marketed
3/ equivalent to 30S of total lint marketed
4/  equivalent to 95? of total seed ginned
St equivalent to 52 of total seed ginned
6/ thne are largely ginning loss"
7/  at an average ci  price oZ 122320 per ton
t/ at an average fob price ot  11639 eer ton
91  at an average price ot 1t91 per   on
10/ at in average price ot   210 per ton
Ill  these are largely  areight  nd brokerage cosmisions paid 4or lint exports. These cosrt ill
Iterease by about 15  fro   1,90 onwards  when the current bro0erage contract expires
12/  estiasted at the aerge 1989/89  recomsended producer price of 11795 per ton
13/ these are  stimted at their J987/88 season levels. any increases are due to the voluue of thruput
14/ these relate to the processing of delinted seed.
13t these costs will vary according to toe volume of Crop sold
11/ these costs largely rtefr th the maintainance of ginning 4actlIti;s. They will there4ore
vary atcordirg to the volute of seed cotton processed
171  calculated at the rate :4 9.;52 for 60Z loans ind :2.32 ;or APO advances



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
ZIMBABWE
AGRiCULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
C.M.B.: Forecast Income and Expenditure Statesents (1909-94)
1989     1990      1991       1992      1993     1994
lint exports                                        222.7    245.6    283.6    261.7    291.9    363.3
lint local                                           72.6      77.9       88.2      76.6     74.3      89.1
cotton seeds                                          43.3      52.0      60.3      51.0      55.1     64,2
planting seeds                                         2.5       2.9       3.3       2.8       3.0       4.6
-----------                               
sub total                                 341. i    378.3    435.¶    392.0    424.3    521.8
ginning losses                                         0.4       0.5       0.6       0.6b      0.7       0.9
rokerage export costs                                 26.24    27.5       29.7      25.b      26.7     31.1
gross income                                         315.3    351.3    406.3    367.0    398.3    491.6
ENPENDI1URES
purchase of seed cotton                              215.6    251.2    286.2    240.4    256.9    299.6
ginning expenses                                      51.9      59.4      68.9      57.8      61.8     72.1
crop production expenses                               6.4       7,5       8.6       7.2       7.7       8.9
marketing                                              1.7       2.u       2.3       1.9       2.0       2.4
i.        16         .8       15        16       1.9
engineering costs                                      14        1          . I                1.6
sub total                                  273.9    317.2    363.6    305.4    326.4    380.5
--- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --...   .   .
nit operating income                                  41.4      34.1      42.7      61.6      71.9    111.1
--- --   - -- -- - -- --   - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -
salaries and wages                                     2.5       2.7      ,2.9       S.1       3.3       3.5
ANA /611D charges                                      0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0 4       0.4
insurances                                             0.4       u.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5
travelling                                             0.7       0.5       0.6       0.7       0.8       0.9
data processing                                        0.7       0.5       0.6       v,7       0.8       0.9
other                                                 (I. 5      0.7       0.7       0.9       0.9       1.1
interest I bank charges                               18.9      21.6      27.8      23.3      23.3     22.5
------------   --- ----------------- -----------------
sub total                                   23.8      26.6      33. 2     29.2      29.7      29.4
net income: annual                                    17.6       7.5       9.5      32.3      42.2      81.7



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AID- XMI  PROMOTION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
CMB  Dgac               ietg      3L        ,,908
,  ~ ~    ~ ~ ~~2. ..                       26 _                      _6  1L Z.                                            _ 26  5.        _1    __.      U.          _      __.  _
igm              1091              1"2               10               196               I9U               II                1"r              lo
n-         *      n8 -       *     Zs -              Zs n             Z -s           2     -        * n      -  n              - 29           ns -  
-'ETS
Tsd A..ta-
L"d a& uId;                         S.       6.       2.0      6.*      .0       5.        .1      7.0     J.0      S.4      5.1      4.0      5.3      4.3      5.7     8.2      5.7      4.6
Goa Plntle &*    o                  1.2      2        1.       a.3      1.1      22       10      2.       21       30       8.5      3.7      8.5      2        02        4        4       '
V.lcl.-0.0                                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.2      O.      0.5      0.4      0.       04       04       04       0.      04       04      o03       0.3
tico & De  Eip.                     02       0.4      0.       0.        .       1.2      00       14      07       1.3      0.7      0.7      1.7      1.4      1.S      1.4     1.8      1.5
iCxo;tI  .P.                       S0.3      0.7      0.2      0.      04       0.        1.      4.s      40       7        0.4      0.4    10.2      5.       5        3.S    12.3    10.4
&A -Ttot I                       't.7     10.S     4.t    11.1       5.2    10.3       6.0    18.4    10.2    ao.J    10.4    10.0    21.8    17.7    22.9    ;0.9    2t.5    24.0
SrrtCJ AOOatD
S  S.tor.o                    28 2    02.0    20.5    80 0    32.0    63.     25.1    5 J.   80   5  S4.5               35.1    81.0    70.2 1     7.1    52 7    57.2    59.0    58.0
°oso reco (OS1oeor)                12 4    27.7    12.3    2a.0    12.8     685          12.0 S    7.e    15.     27.4    &0.0    29.0    30.0    25.1    23.4.   21 4    20.3    17. 1
sC=S Oalancoa                   0 c     0.0      0.0      0.o0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0 a     0.5      0.0      0.0
SVb-Jol.I                       40.8    00.7    S7.0    5G.0  415 5           0 .7    57.4    04.0    45.8 5     31.7    t3.1    90.0   101.1    E2.3    56.7    70.1    90.2    76.0
vnj "SC.j3%                        45 5    SO C    42 5    ZC0t>    50.7   109 0         44.2   100.0    55 3    100.0      2. S    1100.0   122.9   ;00 0   109.6   100 0    118.7   100.0
lOlL IT 132
,.C loro
.'j, Lfonk                          5 0     11.0     5   C   t 10      0.0      0.0   6 .0    11.3         5 0      0.0      0 6     0.3    Z3 9      11 3     17 2     15.7    21r2      V. 9
.4oo.o-t.t    on                    0.4      ". 0     05       1.2      0.0      0.0      0.C      0.0     02   .  0.5       0.3      0.3      a          ? 2   0 3      0.3      0.2      0.2
Oa.l>o,S toO                       D0 a        7      0 2      0.5      0.2      0.4      0.2      0.5      0.2     0.4      0 0      0.0      0.0      0 0      0 0     0.0      0.0      0 0
5.b-VTo/o                        5S 7     12.8     0.7    IS.4       L.3    11.0       8.0    12.7       5.5      0.0     0.t      0.6    14.2    11.6    I7.5    13.0    21.4    16.0
ottC Toro
A,t. Porobieo (Creditorr)           2.3      8 I   . 2.D       5.4      S.0      a.e      D.4      7.7      2 3     s.2      4 7      4.5    10 7       E 7    13 3      Ii 1    14 2    12.0
Ad.-c (A 14 A.)                    31.7    00.7    20.2    50.4    25.1    eO.2    44.0   101.6   G3.2               5.3   :20.7    28.7    49.G    40.4 .  84.3    75 9   112.0    94.4
Daor.? 3wor slnt                    0.0       1.0     1l.   a .1        0.0      3.0      2.0      4.8      1.c     2.7       0.      0.O.t 0 0         0 C      0 0      0.0     1 9      216
3.b-T"I                          34 a    70.5    31.0    74.8   3s.0    70.I          W.a  11.0    57.e   103.2   S3.3    34.1    60.3    49.1    97.5   . 59.1   12b.1   107.9
fAL L1IA31ULTIES                   40 5    Ge.0      37.5      O.:2    44.0    e0.0    65 0    120.X    83.2   118.3    C4.2    42.7    74.5    80.8   1IS I   IOS 0    149 5    125.0
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O4Th                                                                                                                                             .JI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....--           
Co8..oil Q.ont ,,                   0.6       1.1\    0.6      1.2      0.5      1.0      0.0      1.1      0.8      0.9     0.6      0.6      4.0      6.5      1.0      7.3     0.0      6.7
Cronto A OcnaMo2as                  0.0       0.0 .   0.0      0.0      0.2      0.4      0.2      0.8      0.2      0.4    '1.0       1.6     5.4      4.4      5.4      4.9      8.4     4.3
A.... 5s.rols4/(0ficiet)            4.6       0.e     4.8    10.6       5.4    10.7   -12.4   -20.1    -8.1   -14.5    80.5    84.0    35.0    20.5   -18.9   -17.2   -44.2   -37.2
TOTAL                            a..0    110       50      11.5      $.1    12.0   -11.7    -0.5    -7.4    -5.3        W.S    87.3    48.4        3.4    -5.5    -5.0   -30.U   -25.0
rT. IAM25 & OET WOMt                43.5   10.0    < 42 -100.0,   80.7   100.0    "4.2   100.0    86.7              ".0   103.    100.0       22.9      1.   09.6   100.0   116.7   100.0
.rce: CuO  ruit4  r..ac;al *22...u,t. to 1207 and erois;ro:el mccaueo frS 1OU
_ _ _ _ _ > _ * * - t                                       -                                                  k   -  _     w    r   _    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
CMB ProjectedBalance Sheet Positions; 1989-94
(Year Ending February 28)
1u      9        zes               no                no 0  1                        1    1 96
.~~~~~~~3 .. _6                                               6                 3                8                 3
net fimed eases           I/           ST.9    27.4     _1.    86.0       U.4   61.5    41.4    41.4    11.3    8.,   63.3             134 7
current saset.
*l-ck. cdele              2            6.0       9.1    30.      42.?      0.4    42.3    33.4    40.3    0.3    41i.   1: .3    44.9
cevebe            debtor.   8          a.      28.0              is. 1.7    40.8    13.      6.     180      8.4    13.        41.1    20.1
ether m.eete                            0.o     0.e       1.1     e.e      e.e      0.4      0.7     0.3      0.o      0        0.8     0.2
eb total                     100.7    72.5   117.4    $2.0   131.6    61. e       11.        3.    120.4      0.15   1U.1.   65.i
tOt       to                          116.9   100.0   133.2    10.0   214.0   100.0   211.a   i40.0   212.2   100.0   241.4   100.0
gof loanaZ               4/           20.0    20.9      1.17    35.8    77.4      8.2      30.0    40.0      0.9      9       65.0    33.2
I d i as eocieiw  lcom               0.3      0.2     0.3      0.2      o.a      0.1     s.e 0.    . 0.1   08       0.1     0         .a
other  1ane                             O.0 0.0  0.0     0.0       .       00       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.      0
------------   ----     -  - ---   ---    --  ---                                         -------
o.k totl                      20.3   231.1       7.0    05.4    77.7    W6.8    o1.2    40.1    0.2    3.2            63.3    35 3
occ. pyoablco  (creditors) 3/          27.0    15.e    2A.4    17.1       W.3    17.2    81.0    13.8    33.0    is.6    83.1    15.6
odVon.coo , 4AZ)          S/          13.3   12:3.3   146.C   103. 0   215.4   100.?   16.8    98.2   169.2           7.7   165.9    fa.1
booh over refI            7/            0.6      0.4      0.1      0.a     0./3     0.       0.0      0.2     0.a      0.2      0.5     0.:
----------                          ---------------------------------
ab ttol                      104.9   140.8   2219.4   121.3    2.7    113.a   100.6    96.-    M2.1           8.5   204.15     4.7
total linmbiitioc                     224.    16I1.7   201.4   a39.7   MO3.4   154.4   231.0   100.0   2rz.v   184.7  iB.6   120.0
co8;.ol rosoaroc                        5.0      5.3     9.0      4.2 :     .0 a     .7     0.0      4.0      1.0      S.8     3 0      3.3
oroano cad do. aions S                  3.4     t.5      S 4      2.0      5.4     3.8       1.4     2.7      5.4      2.5     3.4      2 2
occSo. 011n I o40f(4. k C) 5/         -00.0   -71.6  -175i%    -92.0  -201. 1  -122.0   -00.   -13.0  -031. 0   -115.6  -300.5  -1.S3.0
ov9b. c rib.teoc  W0J   O .G .0                 8.        3 0   20.0    ll.3    01.4   210.6   107.2   264.0   124.8    07.7   12 3
-------------                              ~ ~      ~    ~~~~~~~-           - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -
totol   natwort%                      -.3    -81 0  -107.21   -M; 7  -110.4   -54.4   -73.7    -S3.;   -78.7   -34.7   -4a.a   -233:
------------   --------- - ---    --- .---                            --
totcH Iiob s and Pot ortb            120.3   8C0. 0    1B0.2   100.0   216.0   C0O.0   212.t  Z10.0   212.2   100.0   241.6   100.0
a/ qe% of drocictico. The Incresontal flourao includ *edditlongI fixed sroots teit Mor
dlroody ptormed for by CO out of PSZP tru  091 aus soli so the ginai n  ftac;llie oa   chick Oall  a fsir bV thi- prOject
2/ 'Sthe  ore l      ser elv slods of unsold i inC et S.cer and. T1*, repreeent 10lS of totael cutouit cad hsve bee   1o1 eir t ,sll   value.
Other  torez estla  to soars pert cig atrile etc r                                               an .
8/ those have bee estimated as the ewl.sleu. of five seatseaes pr oe
4/  W* rlLereas au- funding through MfP am the  o la  flacet to be ectoded by this treject
G/ eatiate"  et the eq*iveleat of four we"  eaPolea
S/ theseare shotrt tre sorhino capital adv-ece from At largely wtisead to fliase the eurclme of aced cottas
7P  thseo *re, the current _euimia  vordraft focilities  .v llerle to Os
grets and donationse re|mi at 196  level.
91  isld  accumulted deficit of 2144.2 clitii_ fre  l16t.
20/ _c_.te  pe   to cover eperetl. deticit. from 1969 (cumlatlve) - es  Veet slw  tlo.
COS eapreased the possibility of recupereti s the hulk or these osees, free, au
snece  ccedIa 40   hesy ers a =r I* t of  ih  rodur prie. mad leo  lot prie    , legl ecls,
clA



-59-                                              ANNEX  1
Table 15
Z1MBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
CMB Forecast Balance Sheet; '988-94
1988     1989      1990      1991      1992      1993     1994
assets
net fixed assets 1/                        08.5      37.9      71.9      82.4     93.8      83.8      83.8
current assets
stocks and stores   2/                     69.9      68.0      80.8      90.4     81.4      88.2    108.5
receivables and debtors 3/                 20.3      31.9      35.5      40.3      36.3     39.4      48.5
bank& cash balances                       -27.0      16.1      bb.1      66.0    120.0      92.1    123.0
sub total                        63.2    116.0    182.4    216.7    237.8    219.7    280.0
total assets                               91.7    153.9    254.3    299.1    321.6    303.5    363.8
liabilities
10ngtere
o2 loan 4/                                 21.2      29.0    121.5    208.7    280.7    218.4    191.9
luilding society loan                       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3
other loans                                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
sub total                        21.4      29.3    121.8    209.0    281.0    218.7    192.2
short term
acc.payable (creditors) 5/                 14.2      27.6      32.4      36.8      31.0     33.0      38.1
advances (IAIA  6/                       112.0    136.7    132.3        76.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
bank overdraft 7/                           1.9       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5
sub total                       128.1    164.8    165.2    113.3         31.5      33.5      38.6
total liabirlties                         149.5    194.1    207.0    322.3    312.5    252.2    230.8
networth
capital reserves                            8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       3.0       8.0      8.0
grants and donations  8/                    5.4       5.4       5.4       5.4       5.4       5.4      5.4
accum. surpluses/(deficits) 9/            -71.2    -53.6    -46.1    -36.6         -4.3      37.9    119.6
gov't. contributions  10/                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       Q..        Q.0      0.0
total    netuorth                         -57.8    -40.2    -32.7    -23.2          9.1     51.3    133.0
total liabs and net worth                  91.7    153.9    254.3    299.1    321.6    303.5    363.8
2:::::::::-  :::::::sz::sS              _:::::::=-=-=::::                    :.- :: ::::==:: u:::a::s23
notes
11 net of depreciation. The incresental ficures include additional fixed assets that are
already planned for by CnH  out of PSIP thru 1991 as well as the ginning facilities etc which will be financed by this projet
21 these are largely stocks of unsold lint at year end. They represent IOZ of total output and have been values on their net re
alisable value.
Other stores relate to spare parts,packing materials etc .
3/  these have been estimated at the equivalent of five weeks sales proceeds
4/  this represents 60t fundinq through PSIP and the laon finance to be extended by this project
5/  estimated at the equivalent of four weeks supplies
6/  these are short ters working capital advances from ANA largely utilised to finance the purchase of seed cotton
7/  these are the current maximum overdraft facilities available to CH8
8/  grants and donations remain at 1988 level.
9/  includes accumulated deficit of Z$44.2 million from 1988.
10/ subvention payment to cover operating deficits from 1989 Icumulative) - one year time lag.
COB expressed the possibility of recuperating the bulk of these losses from 601
since according to C11 they are a result of high producer prices and low lint prices on local sales



-60 -
ANNEX   I
Table 16
AGRICULTURAL CRED      PORT PROlOTION PROJECT
Source and  ippcaton of Funds;1988-94
1969     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1994
____ ---...___         _       $ . - --- --- --- _-
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Incoue/(Deficits)                            -25.3     17.6       7.5      9.5     32.3     42.2     81.7
Depreciation                                       3.1      4.2       7.9      9.0      9.2      9.2       9.2
Dorrowings:
Govwnunt                                           4.0      7.8      37.7     10.7      3.5      2.0       2.4
Grants                                             0.0      0.9       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Govt. Contributions                                0.0      0.0      54.8     76.5     85.6     47.9      42.9
Othbrs                                             0.0      0.0      0.3      -0.2     -0.2     -0.1       0.2
TOTAL SURCES OF FUNDS                            -18.2     29.6    108.2    105.5    130.4    101.2    136.4
USES OF FUNDS
Purchas of Assets                                  5.4      9.4      34.0     10.5      1.4      0.0       0.0
Repy. of Lon                                       3.2      4.1       9.1      9.0      9.0      9.1      13.4
let Balances                                     -27.0     16.1      66.1     96.0    120.0     92.1    123.0
Total Uses Funds                                 -18.2     29.6    109.2    105.5    130.4    101.2    134.4



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Table 17
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Latest Dates for Submitting to the Bank Reports of EEC
Technical Assistance and Consultancies to AFC
Technical Assistance
Preliminary          Final
Reports              Reports
AFC Staff Training Program
by Training Specialist           June 30, 1990        December 31, 1990
Restructuring of AFC by
Financial Adviser                July 31, 1990        April 30, 1991
Consultancies
Loan Portfolio Management          September 30, 1989  January 31, 1990
Management Information System    March 31, 1990         July 31, 1990
Monitoring & Evaluation Ssytem   June 30, 1990          Sept. 30, 1990
Staff Compensation                 April 30, 1991       August 31, 1991



(62
ANNEX 2
Page   i
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Horticultural Export Marketing
and Cotton Sub-Sector Study
I.  Horticultural Export Marketin    u
A. Background
1.       Zimbabwe produces a fairly wide range of horticultural products,
comprising tropical and semi-temperate fruits, vegetables and flowers, for
the domestic and export markets. The bulk of these commodities is. produced
by commercial farmers but there is scope to increase production among
smallholders. The domestic market accounts for most of the production and
consumes mainly fresh products; however, the country has a thriving fruit
and vegetable processing industry, and consumption of processed products
has been increasing steadily during the past eight years. Some vegetables
and significant proportion of fruits and flowers are regularly exported.
Fruit exports have stagnated in recent years mainly because of transport
difficulties through the southern route to the sea. On the other hand,
flower exports has recently shown the potential for rapid growth, with
exports rising from about 300 tons in 1985 to over 2500 tons in 1987.
Hence, an increasing number of farmers now plan to diversify into flowers
.production.
2.       To encourage the growth of the horticultural sub-sector, the
Horticultural Export Promotion Council (HPC), was credited in 1986 as a
non-governmental agency with the responsibilities to, among other things,
help ensure high quality products, undertake market research, collect and
disseminate market intelligence, and organize export promotion activities.
The country has also succeeded in. establishing close trading links with
major importers of horticultural products, notably flowers, in the
Netherlands. Proposals are under discussion to strengthen these links
further by creating two new entities, one in Zimbabwe and the other in the
Netherlands, to help ir. he marketing oi- Zimbabwe horticultural products.
B. Objectives of the Study
3.       While the country has the potential to increase horticultural
exports significantly, little is clearly known about the extent of the
available potential for exports, or about the appropriate strategy to
exploit this potential. It is also important that, in addition to the
market offered by the trading links with the Netherlands particularly with
regard to flowers, the country explores the possibilities of broadening
market outlets for all its horticultural products. Furthermore, there is a



ANNEX 2
Page   2
need to evaluate costs and benefits from the country's point of view in
order to justify public support to S h( sub-sector.
C. Terin: o-t Reference
4.       In view of the above, the sruudy would aim at:
(a)  assessing and docurieniting the i,otential for expanding
Zimbabwe's hoLi-iculitural exports (fruits, vegetables and
flowers), particularly in Europe, North America, the Middle
East anti Japarn;
(b)  identlfying physie,C!, po.J_iey and institutional constraints on
the exploitation oJ t.ho possible potential;
(c)  evaluating cost and benefits to the country, and proposing
measures needed to maxininze benefits;
(d)  given, (b) and (c) above, formulating a medium- to long-term
strategy to exploit the available potential.
D. Timing and output
5.       The study would be carried out under the auspices of MLARR, and
would be completed not later than the end of June 1990. The output would
consist of a report covering all the areas broadly set out in para 4 above.
XI. Cotton Subsector Study
A.  Background
1.       The cotton subsector has been marked by a rapid growth during the
past eight years, with the pr.0oduction of seed cotton rising from about
17,300 tons in 1980 to over 300,000 tons in 1988; and by a major shift from
production by large-scale corm-mercial farmers to smaliholders, with the
share of the latter increasing from 7Z in 1980 to 53X in 1987. However,
yields among smallholders remain very low, thereby necessitating producer
prices out of line with world prices.  The Cotton Marketing Board (CMB) is
responsible for promoting the groVth of the sectox mlinly.by providing
marketing and processing services and facilities, and by helping to plan
the development of the sector. To these ends, CMB-has established eight
ginning plants and seventeen transit depots. It has also prepared a 5-year
capital investment program to support the projected increase in seed cotton
production, estimated to teach ovre: ;400,000 tons by 1992/93. Largely
reflecting the expansion of its services to cover smallholders, CMB's
operating costs lhave  EsCO sharp.ly, in part contributing to the heavy
financial losses that GMB has exps-r.enc.ed during the last three years.
However, the major contributing factor thereto is the domestic pricing
policy which has tended to deviate substantially from the world-price
equivalents.  Moreover, because of a shortage of the necessary expertise,
coupled with a pressing work load among the CMB staff, it has not been
possible to carry out a systematic evaluation of the available potential
for increasing prodrlcvion, (r r            Ri oursasessment of the factors bearing
on the realizatiorn ',;bi i         1'   I  ) a rcsult, the country lacks a



64                       ~~~~~~ANNEX  2
Page   3
clear vision of the possible development of the subsector over the medium-
to long-term, and the financial resources as well as institutional and
policy measures needed to ensure the desired development.
B. Objectives of the Study
2.       The objectives of the proposed study, to be carried out under the
auspicies of MLARR, is to provide the analytical basis necessary for an
informed decision on hcw to ensure a sound growth of the cotton subsector.
More specifically, the study would aim at providing the country with a
clearer picture of the potential for growth; measures needed to realize the
potential; and ways to improve CMB's efficiency.
C. Terms of Reference
3.       In view of the above, the study would seek to:
(a) determine the potential for increasing cotton production,
taking into account the relevant ecological and agronomical
conditions;
(b) identify the factors contributing low yields among CAFs, and
measures to rectify the situation;
Cc) identify institutional and policy measures needed to ensure
maximum realization of the available production potential;
Cd) propose ways to improve CMB's efficiency and operational
capability with a view to minimizing especially transport,
ginning marketing, and overhead costs;
(e) review the implications that equating local lint prices would
have on the local textile industry, and propose ways to
minimize any adverse effects arising therefrom;
(f) review the price of cotton seed for the purpose of
determining the appropriate level relative to the price of
other oilseeds; and
(g) in view of the identified potential for increased cotton
production, estimate the financial resources needed to ensure
adequate marketing and processing capacity; and help CMB to
prepare medium- and long-term investment programs
accordingly.
D. Timing of the Study
4.       The study would be carried out with a view to completing it by the
end of March 1990. The output would be in the form of a report covering
the areas set out in para 3 above.



- 65 -
ANJNEX 3
Table I
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT A-oI EP RT PIoIIOion PROJecT
ZgjctC st Stss-kdq   of*mrAcunts
CZ$ '000)
ftsuc,1 CasIuuig,i
haa Caub--                                        -                  PvIc, £ntuna.s                           Total klc. gost.
lcal (ta. Mins  I                       ItEkl. Miss I                     Local (Exci. Mim  A                    Local (Excl. Mins  I
s.(t, Ton.)    Toan    Total   Fer. (ixOh. lass)  Iass   TotI a t.s, EgO,.  Taxss)    Tmma   laWl   for. tab.   lou,)    TA.a    foual
a. clit MI
1. AC                               1.46.1      5,J20.0       -  9."8.7       173.0  206.0           459.0      2219.1    8452.3          1#412.3    3,0113.6    7,43I.5           82.
2. OSI                              31161,5     6.91,2           .low,?       M9.9  631.5            914.4      827.     18327.1           W 1,759.9   1.414     8,4910,4         82,821.9
3.  211M                              315.4       314.0       -    619.4       15. 1  5,7             38.0      81.1         04.7            08.1       W17.       394.1       -     3.
5.hlsal amVI w8                        6,197.0   121.902        -89,741.9       408.2  93.2           8*4904.4     374.9     2#049.          3,023.9    7,42.9   8W,SW2              24,176.0
8. NC                               1100.8          8.4   442.0  1,479.4       58.9    0.1    12.1   72.9        79.4         0.2    33.0   112.1    8*845.2         1.0   497.6  1,6664.5
2. W9                               1103.3       IV7.           819212.1       58.1    9.        -   60.6        641.        40,0       -   *87.2    8,845.2      .245.5       -    39.
3.  51M                              2431          15,9    07.1    349.3       82.2    0.9     4.4   87.4         7.8         2.0     3.3    83.8      245.3        19.7.7   7    379.7
Whilotl 218L(15                        2tu146.      204.9   529.0  2390.5        185.1   80.2    26.5  852.0       154.9       50.9    36.9   242.4    2,575.7        265.9   M9.]   MUM3.
C. 1629101
8. twat1la S EWEd09110             A3427        b2.64.  2,074 19d.747    1,911.1  142.7   104.01.429.9   18,12.0           045,7   23.8  2,702.1   2i.850.0      LO03.  2,449.5  31,90.5
2. MFC 0927(18                      2,121.7       444.0 8.887*2  4,37.0       165.6   22.1    55.9  243.9       38.#        8991.3   862.4   7133,    3stm.2       657.0  1.3315  5.953.
1.6656624 Eau~0                      3Di.?         70.0            470.7       89.7    3.09           23.5       30.6        21.1            52.4      444.2       802.5       -    546.?
4. Ono3182E918                         10,2        W.               1 4.1       0.5    0.2       -    0.7         0.3         0.5       -     0.        81.8         4.6       -     85.7
540ta8 1081180                        27MS4.5      2,31,1.  3s.167 34,821.5    8,377.2  809.1   859.9 1.7*6.1    2,244.8      057,3   287.5 3,49.    31,86-5.       4,40-7 3,744.0 31.307,2
9. 183011W                               73,0       897.        -    250.81        16    9.4             8 2.9      4.7        48.0             53.4       7913       245.0            32125.1
*E. COSLT88E115                         81005.2      210.0           8,046.2       6.1,   12.5       .   100,1      827.2       311.7      -    59.0    8,558.2         94-2804.
(EC  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~    ~    *       -    336.9        865W                  16.5       52.0           -2.0                     9.                           9.
01                        390.0           -            109.9~~~~-  85,03.             *   8.0        14,8         0.9             14.9      339.9                        329.9
bTORRaEJInS  11*M                 WA.                          309         1.                    3845       66,9         0.0       .    66.9       72.1                         119.8
AFC                                    -        49.0       -    549.0               V 2.4          27.4                   185.0           215.0                  MA0.             1 90.4
5.hTota LOCLA 16MW                       -        590              549.0          - 27.4         - 27.4                     215.0       *    15.0          -       10.         -      9.4
I0.0.14.  TPAIN                         630.0       540.0           8,8719.       38.5   27.4            So58S9    66.9       215.0           2191.01     72.M904I8,8
9. SloSE                                 550.5       10.6       -      69.1       27.     0.5            28.5      37.2          2.7      -     30.0      683.7        13.9            4,27.6
V. DIsT rues
8. 1(916680 14921                  33,554.9    89.094,4      -52.6583             .      -       -      --                             -33569                   8,904          -5,5.
2. (00138 flM  1463(
861981036. 8.0916      ~~32,045.3    22.065.9     -50,938.2            -.                     -                                          2061        226.9             50p931.2
GM9 1(8380                      M2U23A       8.23.2        -20,186             -      -       -       -          .           -12534                           92. 0761.6
M-0ToaW  C9(00  WA6 16A21          45,189.7    10,304.           5629             -      .                                        153.                          3341           -7,9.
8'h-T.toll81  1F88                    78,945.5    49,399.5      - 20,444,0          -       -                                     -               - 79,945.5    49395             - 2,144,0
Tsuotal 9.3198 tllT                    11.080       6691.    117 18,86-5,7    2          l44.58.623  1 806.3 3-.443.l   -2,99.5  1,954.8   424,3  7,279.9  123,102.8    71,949.0  41110.2 199,549.7
A. S9.ARISIALS8L08(I                       -    85.813,0       - 85,933.0           -   91.1       -   91.7          .      7,967.9       -17,67.9           -     4,511.5           42.
9. ui08£L  AD1 (02191S   088             41.7       85.9       -      57.6        2.8    0.0             2.9        5.2        7.4       -      2.0       49.0        20.0              77.8
C. 9911(205 O88                          58.2     8,355.7      -  9.415,0         4.0   67.8            78.9       to,        040O.9      -    71.0       94.9     2,0644.       -  2.11I.z
P. 0FFICE DIlLIES 64351018T8*            6,21       1d.5       ..     22.1        0.3    0.8            8.8:        0.7         0.4             7.1        7.1        22.7       .      34,9
C. 018H. 111145                       8,00.8      3913.0       -  4.908.?        54.4  892.1           24.        84.       .,957.2       -2,100.9    1.292.2      0,024.5       . .310.'
Total RIW.F151 C8S85                      8*l8,     21,094.7       -22*380.9        60.1 8,054.7        Ilo          1 66.2    80.39.9         8010.76.0    1,43.1    3W,745.2          34.I':.3
1,4.1                      819.475,0   ~~~~~~~~~88.s14.9  I.7m.? 288,874,5    2,855.3 2,287.0   106,3 4,551.0    2,805.0    84,455.9   424.3 188,045.9  824,745.9   104,658.0  4,336.3 :1331.8.
4p01,  pat19 6:20



ZIDMANVI
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND  EXPORT PRMOTION PROJECT
Detailed Coats: Credit Fund
llunti                    Same Costs Z$ o000                                                    kmucsts in 6 US$ °
Uthit 
Ikit  1    2   3   4   5  Totl Cost    1            2        3       4        5       tal        1       2        3       4        5     Tol
:. I.UESTKMT COSTS
A. C fVCiAL FAFES                    -    -    -    -    -       -    10,530.3 10,530.3 10.530.3 10,530.3 10.530.3 52.651.3  5.265.1  5.265.1  5,265.1  5t265.1 5.265.1 26,325.6
9. *Dt0DAL AREV frV?TS Sa            -    -    -    -    -       -    10,986.21.980,6.2 I099.2 10986.2 10.986.2  540931.2  5493.1 5.493.1  5,493.1  5,493.1 5493.1 279465.6
C. CAF PILOC  SM%E lb
1. BHj RT T I E_ _ -    -_                                                - 2082.6  4U0.6  4,749.2  89214,9 154526.7           - 1,041.3   240.3 2.374.1 4J107.4 79763,1
.   IU  MM  c                     -    -    -    -    -                   -   702.2   162.1  1,601.1 2,770.0  5W235.3          -   351.1    81.0   OO.5  1.3B5.0 2t617.7
Sjb-To,tal CF PILC7 49X  /b                                                  - 2.784.0   642.6  6,349.3 10.904.9 20.761.6         - 1,392.4   321.3 3.174.6 5.492.4 10390.6
otW1 :,X,S1.' £--TS                                                     21.516.5 24,321.3 22.159.1 27.65.8 32501.4 128.344.0  10.7SB.2 12.150.6 11,079.6 13.93.9 162.50.7 6t,172.0
Tctal                                                                     21.5!6.5 24J301.3 22.159.1 27,S65.8 32,501.4 12N344.0  10,75.2 12,150.6 11,079.6 13.932.9 16,250.7 64,172.0
0%
------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~-e-: ---------                  -: -:, -e:.     e_ -   s=e- e --------
3%
Is WITHIN CREIT CCFFl' t ,NT F;M MSIN O7F UP TO U507 M. EM13M0 F11TR 5REP4ER  INTERESTED IN PRVDIBIS TRAMT.RI
/b CDIT KMS tW    CAF FILOT SDIIE! AS ESTIHATE  IN I7A3 FPAi' AT ZI11l  LUI  DIWRtN THE FIRST TEMR OF TERO ECT WiM  K lET FR0 DT OF FilDS AVAILAELE  WB THE EEC CDIT LIO.
/c ASM  AT 251 OF TOTAL EtTDIATD CKIT 11SI E         .
Ranh 30. IM   1620
If 



ZDMAIM
6AUCULT¶IRL CamiT AnD W-n plmSOT 1303K
Detailed COtSI GVmm Lim.n  1,1tltchm
highs                              lam~~~~~~b cuba Z$ ' 000             kWs Cast LBas US$' OOOiels Iztl   CwAiuwasU
bIll1  2   34   5 TetaIlMlCagt  1   2 a   I * ITuta                                            1   223   4  5 TeW                          2  3    4   5 Toaul
1.-g-MMCu
A. umNCz.cS
cm /a                                                                a - -   SIX1.231.2       -     -      -     -    31.2   15.6      -                   15.6  34.0        -     -      -     -    34.0
Sub-Total WHO.U                                                                         31.2     -                  -    31.2   15.&                           15.6   34.0       .     .       .   -    34.0
1.FmISI   me minio
FILII CABINET                   No       2    -    -    -    -       2      0.543    1.1      -            -     -     1.1    0.5                           - 05    1.2-  -                           1.2
[laIU                        No      2    -    -    -    -       2      6.519   13.0          -     -     -        13.0    6.5                 6-       - 65   14.4                -              14.4
DESKCMDALaTI                    IC       2    -     -    -    -     2       0.543    1.1      -     -      --          1.1    0.5                           - 05    1,2  -        -      -1.2
Suab-Total F1M8T1l  MM EgJ19I1I                                                         15.2     -            -     -    15.2    7.6      -                 - 7.6   16.9        -     -      -     -    16.0
C. COW2110Tk     lb                M.1    L2   12   12    -    -    31.           20  240.0 240.0 240.0       -     -   720.0  12.0 120.0 120.0        -    - 360.0  259.6 268.1 278.1       -     -   KM0.
D. TR010166
012924S131?S ft       80      IS~~~~1  1    1    5    1    23         2   30.0   2.0   2.0  10.0   2.0    46.0   15.0   1.0   1.0   5.0  1,0  23.0   35.3   2.6   2.9  16.1   3,6    eM.
5T., UF  T0012118   l6-                       -     -                               60.0      -  20.0  MU.       -   120.0  31.0       -  10.6  20.0    -  60.0   70.6       -  29.1  64.5      -   164.2
MF1R.'S T3I114120   f                                                               30,0      -W.00 1000 0.0         216.0   18.9      - 29.0  50. 0 10.0 100.0   42.4       -867.2 261.3  21.0  326.?
COZLSE VIE101.0---...-                                               -              430.0     -  00.0  10.0          too0. 0   20.0    -  25~.0   5.0    -  50.0   47.1      -72.7  1,6.1           LI 17I0.I
mm    O   ittrLNxM  ~,Iozm                  -    -        - -1.9   3,0  20.0  30.0  10,0    MA.2                           015  2.1  !100  15.0  5.0  33.0    1.2   4.5  20.1  40.4  17.0   102.1
000 SA05F Ca0. 70213380 a7      2        6    -    -    -    -      6       3.215   49.2         -     -      -       (.    24.9       -                    2    4.0   54.0  -  -     -      -       04.2
SB-Tol.a  T011910                                                                     216,9   7.0 152.4 10.0  :220   597,0  :033.4   7,17 . .0  05.0 16.0 20.9  211.5   2.2 220.9 2301.0  07.!  E0(4.c
0cl.z1  WZST30003  CZSTS                                                                 503.3 247.2 302.  100.0  -2.0 lv:414.3  25', 7 1423.0. 1IClO  95.0 i6.0 L.02.2  361.0, 277.2 0"PID 30.003            C
11. RE0~-0IT CCSTS
A. SAUSIES
PILCT F,,0.;ZT L.IT8            0       5    1    1    1.   I      5          M0   3043.2   1     30.0  M0.C  32.0   ISM4.15C10.0    f 10 200  15.0 15.C  75.0   30.3~ 79.-3 03.6  42.4 03.7
PIE1 090I:Er0                  NO       1    I    I    I    1      5          20   20.0  24.0  20.0  23.0  2.0   100.0   10.1  14.2  I2.   10.0 10.0  50.  20 23-  2.1.2    9,1 22~  20.C 
SECRETMY                       1.       2    2    2    2    2    10            0   100e  10.0  18.0  10.0  18.0    020    9.0   9.0   ?.0   9.0  9.0  42.0   21.2  22.0  z-.¾2  :9.2  7:.:
091q 09                        13D      1    2    2    2    21     9           5    5.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  14.0    45.0    24 50   5.0    S.0 .2  5.2  22.0    0.5  13.:' :4.0  16.1  17,.    60. 
Su'~-lTatz  $00801E0                                                                   73.0  70.C  780.  70.0  70.0   M80.0   36.5  39.0  Z9.C  39.0 39.0 192.5    MT. 102.12 112,4 120.0 13S.'  56
D. VEooI LM ai                                          0041                            8.7   M.010.9  13.0  05.2    57.0    4,3   4,    0.4   6.   7.6  23.0    9. 1 11.'.~ 23.0  17.2  71.3    -3.:'
C. STATID1PT                                               .                            6.2   2.1   6.2   6.2,  2.1    22.7    3.1   1.0   3.1   3.1  1.0  11.2    7.1   2.6   0.0   9.3   3.4          ;
Total RECM&OflT COSTS                                                                      87,9  89.8  95.1  97.2  95.3   465.3   43.9  44.9  47.0  41.6 47.6 232.6  10.2.7 l2.t.2 130.3 102.3 164.4   627'.0
coo.. ~8.0C0 son. .0000 floss an....  a.... *000 oOoco cocos to.. Oct00  .==CZ scooz o=:.::_
Total                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~591.2 336.8 487.1 287.2 127.3 1#829.6. 2M.6 168,4 243.5 143.6 63.6 9.....  ..o...6 393.4 634.3 458.8 221.7 2t,371.0
/a CAR FOR PILOT 980CT0 WOIMITIR.
/b  681? WiOINGI TEDICk81U  *Dt13El TO BMWLO F 1     WS8E PROCEDURS. MSl 11*13I1  PIOGBIMIAD 1011T   TOE INWWW*TIIU  8  THE SOIE.
/C  2 DYMMl           F1O RSP   SL.STNF OF WCMuGITEWCa1b  ADl RMUN.ISTRICt IMETNS  WM  IN SEEC1IO  P8OVEE  TO #MM0I  T1R VITO PUYO  $OCHIE.
/8 2 WME T1A0NI10 C0*51S FOR FC INSPECTORSP *55T. INSPCTONS *10U19513O UWBSOMM.MMT MS 1108331T9031190 OWMR OF PILOT MD.
/a  UIDITATIEN TRAIlIlIB TO F W  61OEN M30           K1JNE UI0  UITWIISI rI  119 11001              AS COORDINATOR.
f/6 101  LENDIIIB C00*20391 All 20OM0S. 101111 U  NFC MnUM  lUITT £3113 TO                              TOIGINIIIIm v 3131w6n OF w r RCWi  aml  WhIW 9RMmS.
to 20? 9 VEHICL.E IWESnOT C1115 WINITD U LOU IWA80.



68 -
AGROICIL(LU9OAL C,07032  7900'1T              PROLOUTIO93  PROJECT
DctalYi~d_ 970takIC. I,Itito09i.n.k Devco opone
S '000                               *,e,  a,US$ '000
Uikt  1    2 314             3 30ta10Lkut09  3"                   2       3       4        5      total        1        2       3        4        5     Total
1. IIKSII237 COSTS
A. £38L VW
ii DISTRICT OFFICES /a               01       2    4    4    -            0    3 12.978f   626.0 1.251 931,231.9                   -3259           313.0   626.0   626.0                  -  35614.9
EOISOOIIS DISTRICT OFFICES           No3      3    3    -    -    -        6    332.938    937.9   933.03-I9L                                      469.5   469.5                 -             931.9
Lou MEITy S3WMI 30530/b              Ila      5    7    4                 1   6  93.693    469,5   657.3   335.0           -            ,50,.3    234.7   328.6   187.9                        753.8
HIGH4ow"  STAF 5066  1050/C          ha      20   29   36           -    6.      1',13    034.6 1,193,4   667.7                        2 ,670.7    417.3   584.2   33.9                      3,3354
S,h-Totul CIVIL MM                                                                           2.eSV.0 4,026.5 32.2-9.133,7  1,434.5 2,0038.3 1,147.6                                 -           4,590.3
325  COOFTEO /4                      00                                    1   2.4o.223                    2.47-.                      2,470.2         -        - 3.235.1                    1.2,35.1
IEMOII4LS,F1IN109S,PA61S                      .     .    .     .    .                        79.0    77.0                                155.9      39,0    39.0        -        -78.0
SFAU1 FOR 3Du  0081810                                                                                       520,7                       523.7                  - 261.8                        263.9
SFAAE1 FOR 3230 (400031                                                                         -                               4.4    J43.4           -        -                      71.7     71.1
C9UT.3Tt 09906T380 S09660E                                                                                   11C.4                       116,4         -        -    58.2        -            -5.2
36W110  DE60.09(00                                                                                           29.                         231.6                       3.                        135.9
639. CONDIT0IN1ING   .o                                                                                               19092              003.2         -                      96.6        -      96.6
399.IN1TER.F030  SLIOL tO                      .       I.      .                                                  -             57.3      37.9                                        29.5      28.5
TAFES MD34 DISKS...                                            .          .                                   96,6              46,6    39.3           -             49.3        -    4.3       96.6
CsI9060biiE  78                               -93 -                 -0.4    01.4    91.4    IT..    01,4    427,1                                   40.7    40.7    40.7    48.7   40.7    243,6
S76330600                                                      -                              6.0    70.09    7  0    7A3.    76.0    32,4.2        33,4    38.4    38,4    38.4    38.4    192.1
S,h-Totdl E09339a06                                                                            27s.2   209,2 3  1, ~. 0    359.5   455.3  4.070,0    339.3   338.9 1.709,4   175,7   227.7  2,438.0
9390-49  /I                          N0       6   12   32                35      35.955    215.7   431.5   431.5                     1-3070.7    107,9   215.7   285.7           -        -    539.3
ITOORIKOS 14                        aD       8   16   16                690      4,474      39.0    71.9    71,7'                       1 79,9     39.7    3A.0    36.8         -              9.9
1WA84C015I  I,3.                                                                             33,4    14.7    094,7                 -     161,8      16.2    32.4    02.4         -              9.9
3910-3481881300 .                                                                             5.4    30.09     90.0                -       7.0       2.?     5.4      5.4                        3.35
Sub-Total 030C08.0  h9                                                                         20.4   57,0.    523.'                      1 9447.2    144.7   299.4   209.4         -        -    73.6
9. 3EW91CAL ASSI000EO
0-0U1S3.69('                                                                                                  243.0   2930         -     49,.0         -            1 20.0   3210.0       -    246.0
9-190CD098TA6C,o r9 4                               2    2                 4         30          -    4.0    47 0                         Colo.0            20.0    20.0                  -     40.0
40140 0EY1E8 .09.2    39.?'   91,3    IL.2    11.2                                                                                        3.6.2      3. 6    5.6      5.6      5.6     5.6      28.1
kil-lotal lTEDIt..0L i.SS3ISTAKE                                                                99.21   31.9.   77M      52'       0.2    694.2        5So      25.6   345.6   325.6       5.6    368.3
C. 004F711634I39
FEL.L885H95 ,p                       90                           5       13l     20,090                              137.4   940.4    ?0-93.                                 70.2    70.2    140.4
S,b'Total STAFF 309919N0m                                                                                                31.4   140.4    203.                      -        -    70.2    70.2    140.4
Total 310501031 COS r                                                                           3.1':.9 4.,02.9 6,7,2.1   7,3.2    60,0  6,40,?.  1,702.9 2.441.4 3,381.0   371.6   303.5  8.268,5
II. gleS9am COSTS
A.  "LI.S10
INM8061. FIELD3 STAFF  I.                                                                  69.0    77.9,   0.0 9237.0  3,3330  5,9000    304.5   V393.3   434.0   603.5   73 2.5  2.541vo,
MLV DISTRICT 07FIC0 STAFF  /,                                                              2 '2      ,2,C  .9:3.73,2.39  2.,20.0   .6.0           300.0 TO  400,0   3096.031,00.09 9.09.0  3,340.0
lb-Total SALARIES9'  .22  .   .2'31...  9,29                                                                                                         424.!   20T3.5 1,206,0 3.099.33I72.5  5.040.(
9. INTILDINO 004 'S                                                                            . .3 977,   97 .9 90.9   990.3   '71.3                 :.6    60.4    93.6    5l,6    08.6    345,7
Total 000407409053 Costs..    23   322:~.9  ].,'I 9 ]2.'9.                                                                                               42' 3   093.0 1,377.6 I,93e.04.             .0,7
is 16008S. M. 60 23M193.51). M.
lb 320 00. M. 60T32370~/0. M.
/C   70 1. 9. AT M971.53. R.
Id  390.00ES SO TEAF71A,4S. 16 F01407E09, 09.7 9K0340 909MI930  769IL9F'.
it  CURAMTE C94I00L F90 2 CCr;oIER 09230S5,2 10MMMISID0103,' r,3 90U49.
It  3400100099000E MOI; 99LF9L0 - 0D09E,09, STAJIL31[0,
IS  00341E0 0130909  09,2 rE39L3C 909435.
lb~ 91 3998 01570390 :7I2Ls 30L0
It I P30993 99 Fi WC O 073 3353390C (IF73C0S,
1.6  4010D0931S9F0 242. 0F790 035109093 OF19(09,
it69       O 3503 k130023h60  T0.
is  23160 COVOFACT P9 .,9000,0.,009,745 3161fi49,o393  to 40  (Al'
/a  4039462 CX~L1I. 30:ET Kt kA';L'7k  FE79040   3263 F0 92F''  49or'      942A23       ~                  '~ ,
'p  09.9090S C9Y.J' i0     ( 0942,  97749
£12I.91.1 0 39(203   F:E.:' S'jF STAIMED A 9307   r95'0029 2792,9.
Prtrh 3o. 3007 It-.



ZIMBABWIE
AUICULTUL CEDIT AN EXOtRT PFaOTION PROJECT
Detiled Cost.t Giunery Civil Works
kwthm  costs  Z$'000                ha cats    I US$' 000           Totals Ieiub  Cmtumeius
Matl 1 2 3 4              STetuhi                  2       2    3 4 *   5Tal              1       2    3        4   5   Total    1       2    3    *        5    Total
Mass Mass- -ES   Massno   -RM  -UMM  as*MMMMms             -     a -a              a                         f    n   ..            lSaa    s   a.  s 
I. trf U
LAN  FWUh     /a               no      -                         -               54.1   18.3        -   -       73.0    27.4    9.1    -   -   -   36.5    65.5   23.7    -   -   -  S7.1
BEDITY FEIU   h                10      -    -    -    -    -         -           40.7   13.6- -           -     54.2    20.3    6.1   -    -   -   27.1    4B.6   17.6    -   -   -    U.2
ENT  I      EU IIOn                   .    .    .    .    .                    472.2  157.4    -    -    -  62Y.7   23 61   7 W        -    -   -  314.3   562.1  20,.3             -   -   764.4
A COStM I                      I       .     .    .    .    .                   5..-7   1-.9    -    -    -  755.6   213.3    4.4    -            -    -    7.    674.5  242.0   -   -    -   Y17.3
STOW  MU swIm   /e             1       .    .    .    .    .         .         I 59.-  316-    -   -   - 254.-3    57-9  193.3    -    -   -  m.2  .398.S  509.0   -   -   - 1l90.5
am1 3I01 1 II                  No      -   -   - -                         123.6   41.3    -   -   -   165.0    61.9   20.6    -               -    -   82.5   152.6   56.6    -   -   -   :0°.2
OFICE   CKS     d              1       - - -    -   -     -     -247.4   32.5   -    -   -  32.9   123.7   41.2                             -    -    164.9   293.3  106.6    -   -           406.9
PF    STIE                     No   0.S  0.3    .-         -    1   23.47    212.6   70.9   -    -   -  213.5   106.3   35.4   -    -   -  141.7   256.4   93.3    -   -   -   340.7
UTILITY STORE                  ND  -0.  0.3    -        - -           23.7n    211.3   70.4    -   -   -  231.8   105.7   35.2   -   -   -  140.9   256.0   93.5   -   -   -   !49.5
OFFLOIIIG PIAWfM               1     0. e0.      -         -     I 1".175    67.6   22.5    -   -   -   90.2    333R   11.3   -    -   -   45.1    31.9   29.9    -   - -                      111.B
VATER DE10IR                   NO   0.8 03    -   -   -    I    77.37             58.4   29.5    -   -   -   77.9    29.2    9.7    -   -   -   31.9    70.7   25.8    -   -   -                 .6
FtW  MS                        NO   0.3  0.3    -   -    -    1    35.69         26.7    8.9    -   -   -   35.6    13.4    4.5              -         17.3    32.5   11.9    -           -    44.5
iuARs SHELTER                  NO    0.3  0.3    -   -   -    I            10     7.5    2.5   -    -   -    10.0         3.6    2.3    -    -   -    5.0        9.2    3.4    -   -    -    12.7
SILE SM                        No   0.0  0.3    -        -   -    1    39.202    6.9   22.3   -   -   -   89.2    33.5   12.2    -                -   44.6    79.    2.7    -   -   -   118.3
6U3*13  kW                     NO    0.3  0.3    -   -   -    I   277.352    207.3   69.3    -    -   -  277.1   103.9   34.6    -   -   -  133.5   247.3    3.o    -                  .    336.4
ILuTINU KOS                    NO   1.5  0.!   -   -   -    2    139.351   203.6   69.5    -   -   -  271.1   104.3   34.3    -   -   -  139.1   24.3                     .A    -       -    -   337.6
9r3RD URmTBS                           6    2         - -        -     5 2.472   3124.   104.9    -   -   -  429.3   157.4   52.5    -    -   -          .9   374.7  134.9    -   -   -   50.6
SElIR STFF HOM                 U     1.5    2 0.5          -    4    103.703    155.6  27.4519    -   -  414.3    77.   1037 25.                  -  207.4   136.3  270.9 73.7    -   -   531.4
CMIEEN FOR STFF                UO   0.3  .3 -3             -    I   103.7        77".    25.9    -              0- 23.7    3.9    23.0    -    -   -   51.9    93,4   33.9    -   -   -    2.
FIRUFISITING 3ES fO            UO   0.3  0.3    -   -   -    I   101.34          76.4   25.5    -   -   -   101.9    33.2   12.7    -   -   -   50.9    92.9   34.1    -   -   -   I:z'0
P£ 617*I SNELTER               o   0.3  0.3    -   -   -    2           0.25     0.2    0.1    -   -   -    0.3          0.1    0.0    -   -   -    0.2         0.2    0.1    -   -   -        0.3
MIXING1 FLOOR                  UO   0.o  0.3         -    -      I   204.944    153.7   51.2    -   -   -  204.9    76.9   25.6    -   -   -  102.5   136.2   68.0    -   -   -   254.2
SACHZIY  UIMI                 UO   0.8  0.3    -   -   -    I   670.034    502.6  167.5    -   -   -  670.1   251.3   03.3    -   -   -  335.0   606.0  220.6    -   -   -   6:6.6
INUT OFFICE                    UO   0.8 0.3    -   -   -         I    43.557    32.7   o0.9    -   -   -   43.6    16.3    5.4    -   -   -   21.8    39.2   24.2    -   -   -    .3.4
SM1 lAGGING-El RU              UO   0.9  0.3    -        -    -    I    70.27     52.7   07.6    -   -   -    70.3    26.4    3.3    -    -   -   35.2    64.1   23.5    -   -   -    6.6
FOIdLIFT TtJJ 6M1W1            UO   0.6  0.3    -           -    -    I   153.32    119.1   39.7    -   -   -   158.9    59.6   19.9    -   -   -   79.4   144.3   52.7    -  --               li.o
C01103 SEED HRMNTSIS           U     2.5  0.5    -   -   -    2    264.32    397.2  1324- -                -  529.6   19.6   66.2    -    -   -  264.3   433.2  17J.2    -                -   o.
MUE STORES 7e                  UO    1.5  0.5    -    -       -    2    s7.59-    131.4   43.8   -   -   -   175.2    65.7   21.9   -    -    -   87.6   15S.1   55.4    -    -               21:.5
LIuT LOADING FtATFI/Ur         UO   0.s 0.3          -     -    I    f2.96       62.2   20.7    -   -   -   33.0    31.1   10.4   -    -   -   41.5    74.7    2.               -    *   -   10158
LU.l CL4SSIFYIN6 lUOO          U    0.8  0.3    -    -   - I           61.U4     46.4   15.5    -    -   -   61.9    23.2    7.7    -   -   -   30.9    5s.9   25.4    -              -6L3
ArTR RETICuL.1RE               UO   0.8  0.3   -    -   -    I   325.326   244.0   31.3   -    -   -  325.3   122.0   40.7    -    -   -  il:.'   29C.4  104.    -                        *   ;-   c
18-Total CIVIL Is                                                                6099.6 2,130.3 51.9   -    - 3,340.2  3.04 9, 1094.4 7.9            - 4170.1  7.3s5s 2363.  73.7    -         0p -
Ttsl IllSTtENiT COSt5                                                               6.09.6 24.213   51.9   -   - 3,340*2  3,049.3 Lt094.4 25.9   -    - 4170.1  ?v329.5 s,63.0   .    -   - 109266.2
---    nUns              -  - ma   am --ss--  a n               a     ma  .m as      . a nn .-   .... gag    s    Sa
TOWl                                                                                 609". 2130.3 51.9    -          .340.2  3,049.3 1094.4 25.9    -   - 42170.1  7.329-5 2.sU3.  73.7           1 -*0.266.2
:Zm  san   an   5 5    ma   at                 ausans  ta    ma    ma _gg  nl aa  gas . agng
/a Lr    IN   U 26 KCTANES.p
7b FfII16 TO  r     20 NECTAES FOR 1MM   SITE.                                                                                                                                                                        fD
/c  ND  01l   C_ ST     lE OKA SAFiACING.
/d   Ia IIUII    . crr NM  amE OFFICEIU OM1  MMr1.
is  RIINEASIONSE         x 3112.
March 30, 1989                                                             ... ... - - --            - -  - 



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AIID EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Detailed Cost: Ginnery Plant
Ruatitv                                   DM  Costs  z$  '000                   im  Costs in $ US$ '000    Totals Inc1udira Continncies
__                               unit-                     -
Unit  1    2    3    4    5   Total  Cost       1        2     3    4    5   Total        1       2     3    4    5   Total         1       2     3    4    5    Total
= _ -                  _    =e_ _                                               =- =   -  =~          ==                         S==  ==_
I* INJEStEH  COMT
A. 8111 PNT F   /a    No                                           2,303.4 6,910.1    -    -    - 9,213.5  1,151.7 3,455.1    -    -    - 4r606.7  2,491.6 7,718.1    -    -    - 1O20F.8
Total DJETNT COSTS                                                    2,303.4 6,910.1    -    -    - 9,213.5  1,151W  7 3,455.1    -    -    - 4,6067  2,491.6 70719.!    -    -    - 10 9209.8
-=== -  -            _J     =a =====--            --=== =J    ==                        -- --  5- --=   ==
Total                                                                  2,303.4 6,910.1    -    -    - 9,213.5  1,151.7 3,455.1    -    -    - 4,606*7  2,491.6 7,718.1    -    -    - 10,209.5
/a  COIFLETE SIN KLN  IIITH IIDI FU101 I CONVEYXE SYSTEN, SEED CUIUEYNI; I HANDLIIG SbII  ETC.                                                                                                                 I
Narch 30, 199? 16:20
IM 



AUICULTURAL c2DIT TlWUT PQIDtmIo PoDJuT
DetaLled Costs: GlCmin   Vebhcles Ia14 Btt
smuts                                          babel   Z$ '000                            kw. cats l  Us$'000
Bid   1   2 34     STota11lIbct    1                    2      3       4      5    Totwl      1     2       32     4       5    TOa
1. m emm
6. E3IITD23O
ERCnTO6FUT                          3      - - - - - -                              7W4  236.0           -      -        3U4   39.3  I.0         -       -      -   ID.3
TOLS FM  5ECTU1                     °                               -              100  2U.7                 -      -   359.   44U   1343             -          -   37m.6
alCUCWS OM                                                                           1.7    5.1      -  -           -      67   0.       2.5      -       -      -      3.4
Od  HIRE                            ND                                              U.-   54.4       --               -    2.6   9.1   27.2       -       -      -    36.3
FU-F4IUT S SOIEII                  II                                              393.5 530.6           -   -74.1  96.3  20.3                    -      -       -   30.1
CDS /a                              88                              * -   -.7  497 1                         .      -    62.9  12.9  246.6        -      -       -   331.4
STOIS                               O      1 3 3--  -               4    2U231    26U2   7h.7        -       -      -       U 11.9 .1  37.4       -      -       -    52.5
1    1M. E       lTI IE             o      -                  -    -                      961.0      -       -      - 138.0  "LS  490.5                  -         -54.0
301U5                               o)     _-_   _   _   _          _               U.4   34.2       -       -      -    45.6   5.7   17.         -      -       -    22.8
SU65                                111    -   -   -   -   -    -                 2U0.   612.2       -       -      -    14.9 101.9  305.6        -       -      -   407.4
spt                                 a  -   -    -                                  252.  1411.2 I.2 14 11.2ll2 1311.2  4,2.   26.4  55.6  5I5O         505.6  SO.4  214i.
WLaE                                la     -    -    -   - -        -a.    75.9                      -       -           101.2  12.7   3s.0           -          -    50.6
SetITl EIWFIEIT                                                                     1,14.1 4, l 1411.2 1.013.2 Ill.2  hI2.t 67.0 20217.   565.6  505.6  55.6 49431.5                                                                         I
3.   ILT2.  _____
T1CTR                                    0.5  35   -   -   -    2    42.135    21.3   63.2           -       -      -    14.3  10.5   31.         -      -       -    42.1
T1IU13                                   o.: 2.3---                 3    2n.4    i.    s.9           -       -      -    7.    9.0   26.9         -              -    35.9 
SltTltal  IIC1TI rI1                                                                  30.0  17          -      -       -   15.Ml   19.5   S.$        -              -    71.0
C. fofCLES
FIFTT11S                            96     -   4   -         -    -    4    91.315    -   mJ         -       -      -M39 .3        -   196.4      -              - 196.6
2 X 7t1a4xE  T9U                    O      -  10   -   -   -   10    U.ff             -  31.5        -       -      -   U1.5       -  409.        -       -      -   469.6
SoT- I  3-    -1.212.8                                                                                  -      -       -   22.8           60.4                      -   606.4
o. 3s      1FFICE 973(630                          -   -   -   -    -                2s.0        -      -      -       -   2x0 e 1.          -       -      -       -   us o
E.    CE F                                    -       -        -    -                    -                                                U7.7  2.  -  12.9  -  -   -    2
F. LAMR                                       .    .    .    .    .        .          41.8   U.3        -      -       -    6.0  24.4   M.           -                   32.5
TeoU  1 18ESIT     S                                                                  1731.9 6431.9 141O.2 343u.2 3431.2 30,80.5    5 9 301.5  s55                 SOS.6  535.6 5402.2
II.  Cl IM
a.                                           -   -ALA-                                  -   9.0        .0  942,0  942.  37P,3        -  471.6  471.   471.0  471.6  b884.0
. DM     1A                                                                            - -    .   1 376   176.1  3761 71    4.3     - u .0   U.S    8.0   1.e   M2.2
C.  -CKU                                          -   -   - -                           -  54.3   93.1  7M.1  79.1 2.973.7           -  297.2  396.6  3.6   3.6  1416.9
3. 32511                                                                                    234  297.2  297.2  297.2  1,314.9        -  111.7  140.6  148.6  140.6   357.4
6. MISC. W9m                                                                                2029  234   223.4  223.4   97.           -  303.4  113.7  111.7  113.7   43.5
row  Kr        60c                                                                       _   2.13.7 2,431.0 2,431.3 2432.  9,434.0      -  W9  1,215.9  .215. 1,215.9 4717.0                                                                    CD
Tol                                                                                    1731.9 6177.6 3.443. 2443.0 3,43.0 20233.  6.9 408.6 172. 5   M,721 .5 12.5 M011.3                                                                        I   X
m_ m_ _m ma - _ _ _aa-_
M x
Is DM3. BET    OBSMMLIE WXT I CM
%Rh 3, 390 36:20



ANNEX 3
- 72 -                                                    Table  8
AGRICULTURAL CRZDIT AR    I D!       T  PROHOTION  PRWOECT
Detailed Cosa4: Lint Storae. WC. iIkehoe   ind Cocton Sector Study
owUtv                                           kwt  zS '000                             b   "tslaIUS$tOOC
tit  1   2    3          4   5  TetSl  itCost    1       2       a       4      5   Tota         1     2 3 4             5     TdS
elmt m
1. LUn S_W FACIUw /a
LINT STM  AT 11-   -                                                               61-.5       -11.5   301.3                                -         -   -      -    9.3
LMX   t     SlAl   /                                                             1tN&IM611.                                          .3    -          -       -     -237.1  -  -  -  - I.2373 113.5
hTtl CIL M                                                                            1.Wl         -       -       -      - IW237.    613.5    -    .    .-          618.5
a. TM"                                               - .    ..0   19.0                                      - .    .           30x.0    75.0 n5.0    -    -    -  550.0
C. Now=  S1     /C
Eawr                                  I    -1.5--  -1.5                         21        -  0.0         -    -    - 3.0                 -15.0-                 -  55.0
6CCOM3TMT                             U       -   2   - --             2        21        -    40.0              -       -   40-0        -20.0    -    -    -   20.0
nIST                                  U       - 5.5    --  -.  ..5              21        - 3e.0         -       -       -3x.            -15.0-    -                 I5.0
COTT1    S3E.1                        U       -5 1.5 -   -   -   -               o             30-   30.0                                -1.0    -              -15.0
TETILEP .PO,SPUM                      U          I.S - -       -     1.5        20        -   30.0       -       -       -   30.0        - 15.0          0-    -   5.0
COTI     a1t Fo.1      l..            114        1.5   -   -   -   *.5          20             30.0                           30.0         I-.0                      15.0
LKra.LWMLTAU                          U       - 2   - - -              2       5.3             10.6                           10,6           5.3    -      -    -5.3
mm   IRTITIS                                  -   4   -    -    -    4          20        -   t0.0       -       -       -   10.0        -40.0       -    -    -   40.0
3*Total  3133  9Om   /C                                                                      -  230.6               -       -  320-6        -40.3    -    -    -  140.3
I. O0ER msWmr
S0ow  g        MN                             . . /          -. .                   1259.6 5,129.6 1u259.6 1259.6 I.25.6 6M27.3        2.l 62.1 62.3 6 29      .3 3.15.9
NYBACS  tA UT     /                   No-4 -                                            2.0   42.0    4.0   42.0   42.0  210.1    21.0 21.0 21.0  21.0 21.0  105.1
1hTotal OIER  fIS                                                                      1,301.6 1.301.6 110.6 5,3101.6 513016 6507.9    6e.0 6-53 6ue   650.3 A   0.o 3623.9
E. /aW it
5      D1 KulaI                           I   -    -   -   -    1   27.46   207.4             -       -      -       -  207.4   103.7    -    -    -    -  103.7
CmIu    E-.4                                                                                      -       -      -       -   35.4    17.7    -    -    -    -   57.7
DImIIs (SIPMENT                                                                        65,3       -              -       - 615.3    32,6       -    -    -    -        .
iumiWns    IENUIFII--T                                                                 12.5       -       -      -       -    2.5      6.2     -    -    -    -    6.2
sit      EQar E-pjf                                -                                    7.5       -       -      -       -   327.5    13.7    -    -    -    -    13.7
651Y 115LEUInI-                                        -         -                      4.2       -       -      -       -    4.2      2.1    -    -    -    -    2.1
l6iSTS AND SETTINOS  MOM                                                               62u.                                   62.1    311.1                          Jl-  -    -    MI
WLUICAIIEl 'UIPIIT-                                                                    13.3       -       -      -       -   13.3      6.6    -    -    -    -    6.6
FUEL IMNACTT  EOUSPI- T                                                                 7.        -       -      -       -    7.a       .      -    -    -    -    3.9
TYRE LMTDWUNC  EunFlr--                                                                12.7       -      -       -       -   U.        6.4       -       -     -      6.4
s&b4ot.1   IWIOP                                                                         753.1       -      -       -       -  753.5   37.        -    -    -    -   37O
Tro   DIME T COStS                                                                        3,446.7 12732.2 1.35.6 1I305.6 1.O1 9s033.6  373.4 316.1 650.3 65-0  &0  4541.8
tal                                                                                       3J446.7 5.72.2 1#301.6 I.301.6 5.0156 9,003.6  1723.43 66.15. sL 650.3 50.3  541.8
__- --.----------  -                     -   -   -       -   -
/a 2 U ll1 ROM  FACLIUTIS To IK  UT (NE IN SIMSNDA MI   IN CN01M.
lb  3 MME f  EX . TM"    FM3    6 81S. F?LH.
/c  CUMFAE        U        SEKC    T513 M   SIM   F IIINIST7Y OF ULSI  60t10T131  IMESETnW     To 2 CaUISSIOK   Y e103.
/d WMSES FOR  G5      ff 12 GINUI   SULLI  FOR 5 YEAS.
to N3SICS KFSAEENT FO  12 0OMES A15 AMLLY FOR5 rYWS.
7t      58Pw IS 3o SENE AL CtD 09111 .4
/g Io IUIES   11T1.ULS An  C*IINt  AS kEL AS PUSE COST OF ONE- ) HOARE OF Li.
utIH 30. 59   1020



ZINBSA3IE 
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PRKOSTIOU PROJECT
Detailed Costs: Horticultural Remaercb
hantita                                 los sts z$ '1000   E            a Cts In Stu$ '600;Ss LsdAlnS Cantifmfias
Uitt 1   2    3 4 *           Total Unit ost   1    2   3   4           Total   1    2   3   4   5  Totul    1         2   3   4   5  Total
I.  t-    mSmS
I. PM 5W
WIUUII;/a                              NO      I   -    -   --         I     55.83  55.0    -   -   -   -    5.3 27V.         -   -   -   - 27.9    63.4                           63.4
mluIIIS  /b                            No      I   -   -   -   -    1   165.182 165.2    -   -   -   -  165.2  324    -   -   -   - 82.6   197-                  -     -          ir.7
cau  STEaE FCIjT1Ul /l                   D     -   I   -   -   -    I   228.207         - 220.3   -   -   -  227.3       - 114.1   -   -   - 114.1        - 275.7             - -      -
CUJ STI; FMC M            /                    -d      N-   -   -      I      75.4      - 75.6 -    -    -   75.6        - 37.   -   -   -37.                 91        .       -    1.3
CUN IED UT6NWIE F5         T, h        NO      -   1   -   -   -    I          4       -.5  -94.5    -          9.5      -47.3   -   -   - 47.            -114.1   -   -   -  1;:.1
StTebl PUT "NSt  RnSE                                                                  221.0 3.4   -   -   -  619.4  110.5 1".2   -   -   - 309.7   251.1 411.0             -   -  ;3:.2
Sd-Tut CMVOWL                                                                            22122.0 m4   -   -   -   I9M4 110*5 19.2   -   -   - 30J.7   251.1 41.0   -   -   -  732.2
*. E01Tui
P-IES.WL   FIIP                                   -    -    -    -    -       -         63.6 245.0   -   -   -  3t.6  31.3 U25.    -   -   - 154.3    69.1 230.?   -   -   -   M50.7
STNE*    TUI/t                                   -                                      5.0    - -      -     -    SJ.   2.5    -   -   -    -  2.5        5.9    -   -   -   -    5.9
IutUPLT /                                         .    .    .    .    .       .        31.4  31.4 32.4 31.4 31.4  t17.1  15.7 25.7 15.7 15.7 15.7 73.6    34.5 36.0 37. 39. 42.0  19m.2
Sub-l1tu     l T                                                                        10.0 276.4 31.4 31.4 31.4  473.7  50.0 31.2 15.7 15.7 15.7 235.4    1.1 316.9 P7.3 3. 42.0  546.7
C. Van=E
NUQ ZplaS                                 No     3   -   -   -   -    3         59.5  173.7         -    -    -  1737  6.3       . -   -   - 3N.3   194.3    -   -   -   -  194.3
LAW Mm                                    N           -    -    -       - 1     1U345 1-1.3    -   -   -   -   61.3  3.7         ---              30.7      .7    -   -   -   -    7
TREI                                      NlD     I   -   -   -    -    1    s0. m      50.2    -   -                                          -- 3231  --- -25.1    54.6    -    -    -    -   54-
SP       /h                                       -    -53. -   -   -    - 5                                      I      29.0    -   -   -   - 29-0    43-2    -   -   -   -   63.2
Sd-Totaw    IS                                                                           343a    -   -   -   -  3.3  174.1    -   -   -   - 174.2   373.7    -                -    -   -  37..7
0.  IU i1 i                                         1   *   *   *   *    1            20  20*0    -   -   -   -   20.0  10.         -   -   -   - 10.        21.6    -   -   -   -   21.6
E.   ET SM1STi   /J                          M     12   -   -   -   *   12    24.06  233.5    -   -   -   -  20.5 144.3    -   -   -  . 144.3   312.1    -   -   -   -  312.1
Total  JES4NBT CSTS                                                                         977.9 4    31.4 31.4 32.4 127469 40S. 337.4 157 15.7 15.7 e3s 1.073.7 73.0 37.3 39. 42.0 1991.4
- ---  -----man --- m-
Ttab1                                                                                        977.9 674.0 31.4 31.4 32.41,746.9 413.9 337.4  5.7 15.7 15.7 735  1.073.7 m.s 37.3 39.3 42.0 l.m.4
/a FM LSITIFlMlE CPS. MUMI1; COSTS tVJAE  SEIOM  Me SECMS.
/b FOR NI1UENnE CMS. UIUIN COSTS IIDLUDE  tI391            AN9D SICE5.
C  ME-MO  ANS  CM  STEAK CtNMiETS E*  2.4 X 2.4 X 3N.
/d  FME-         FOR CDIIR Al      E STIlE- 31M X 4 X 31. PRIUSIUW. Ft1S.
taM X 411 X 31.
tt ST1AKE CTIS AND M0OM  FM FUIIT *0 1LA .fl
9 102 IOF CIVIL NOES AN EDlIENT INEIE    COSTS. REFED AIIWIlIT
lh 202 OF OMCLE lFSTT CtStS FOR VARE MU.TSC
I't PS-V        11Bum I   U;sIO00/l3.
7J 3PElt FOR 4         E  . Bow



ANNEX   3
Table  I0
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Summdry Accounts By Year
2193w
AWICOIP. cMo2t Ao ES1111 9 6118 FROACT
S,aut  kcc,ts by  eta
lotels Inclu(unl Continincls                           Totals WNWluR    Coinmea
*Z I '000)                                             (US'0000
1       2        3        4               Total        A        2        3        4        5      Total
fleas. ann.. ~     ~. .....  ... ..... a,--* .f  ........ ........ ...flaaa              a.  u
1. DNtr Com1
A. CIVIL NM
I.we                                 37.m7  4,967.5  3,80.8           -        -  11.322.0  1,636.7  .493.7  1t,40.4                  -  5,6.6
2. c                                 9,13.9  2,86.3    73.7                       12.021.9   ,581.9  1.442.1      36.9        -           6- 08.9
3.  1SEI                               251.1    01.0         -                       732.2    125.6   240.5          -        -             366.1
ST40.1 CIVIL MM                        22.686.7  .332,8  3.154.5         -        - 24176.0   6344.4  4166.4  1577.3             -       -  12F08610
I. wiiiajs
I. Mt                                  3471    4.6   670.8            -        -   10664.S    173.5   323.3   335.4          -        -    632.2
2. Cs                                      -  1390.7         -3 19390.7                            -    695.3                               65- 6.3
3. 86A3CN                              376.7                 -                 -     378.?    119.4         -        -        -        -     19.4
ShTtaI  1UC0s                             m.2   2.037.2    70.S          -        -  34332.9* 623a 1O13.    3.4                           -  1.716.9
t. 191u1r
1. Mm  N181 E0Mi         t           964M.3 14#6H.1  2.10.2  2.737,4  269.9  32,901.5   4,933.4  7.334,0  1340.1  1M3.7  t449.5  16.*450.0
2. MFC E1IW T                          259.3   271.5  4.274.9   44.3   603.3   5,853.3    129.7   135-7  2o137.4   222.2   301.7  2e92U.6
3. ESEW  E6OUIPIIt                     110.1   316.9    37.8    39.         42.0    546.7       55.0   158.5    16.9    19.9    21.0    273,4
4. CT012  £101                          1S.7        -        -        -        -      15.7       7.8                 -        -       -        7.6
Sub-Total E£190                        10,1.6 15.256.5  6*993.0  3e271.6  3544.2  39,317.2   5,225.9  7.626.3 3,496.5  l.U5.8  27M.1  19656.6
8. rlmTIE                                   1.2   323.9         -        -        -      25.1       0.6   162.0         -        -        -     i62.6
E. C8IS2L1TMl(S                           507.7   325.3   615.6    302.8    14.1  IF845.5    293.8   162.6   307.8   151.4              7.0    922.7
F. tWN61116
1.  TG RUII
FC                                   54.0        -             109.3   176.0    39.3         27.0        -        -    84.6       a.0   1099.6
ct                                  162.3    167.5        -        -        -    329.8       81.0      3.8        -        -        -     164.9
'i--.t1 OVen"l5 TRN                    216.2   167 5         -    10.3   176.0    729.1    1O.s1         63.8        -    a4.6    8S.0    364.5
2. L . tlU1111118
YC                                  196.6      9.2   220.9   306.5    57.3    790.4          9.3       4.6   110.4   153.2    26.6    395.2
601-Te   LJC. tlm A                    19  .       .2    2206.    306.5    57.3    790.4        98.3      4.6    18.04    31.2    28.6    395.2
Su-ftoul 1121                             412.2 6   76.7   220.9   475.1   233.3  1.1P.5    206.4    88.4   110.4   237.9   116.7    759.
6. 11861(1                                312.1   315,4                           -     067       156.1   157.7         -        -        -     313.
V.    IT FUS
1. 1c6C1L r 96                      120536.3 lOtW.3 *0.530.3 I030.3 10030.3  52.651.3   5265.1 2        265.1  5,265.1  54245.1  5265.1  26932.6
2. CORt  r_ A
l1ISI6IIL LIISe                 10,96.2 lO293.2 1o096.2 10.93.2 l09o6.2  54.931.2   5.93.1  5.493.1  5,493.1 5,693.1  5,493.1  270465.6
amU  LEMIS                              - 276.6    642.6  6p349.3 0093.9  2O.61.6               -  192.4   321.3  3074.6  s492.4  10.380.1
Sult-otal  tD l  * Fr s             10,936.2 31f7.0  10.2    7.335S 21971.1  7692.8  5.493.l  685.5  5.6*4.4  0667.8  0.935.6  37o646.4
SiO-tol   1BIT FUS                     21,526.5 24,301.3 22F159.1 27.365. 32501.4 1213.44.0  10756.2 122.506 12o079.6 13,932. 16,250.7  64.272.0
totl IStI          CMT                    46t496.6 51.0691. 33.114.0 325.9  493.0 2^9586.7 23.243,3 25434.6 16,907.0 25tM.O 18.146.5  9794.4
,aainaa am..-------  ------ -------- ---                                  . .     .n.n..n....a....aae . an. - ..
it. U.ICU t ConT
.SNIALLm.1CE8                          1,038.1  3,423.2  5,220.1 6.l28.? 8,002.3  2492.5    529.0  1,706.6  2,610.0  3,409.3  4.051.2  02.296.2
6. 86ICl  MS A  JP*101T Om                 9.6    11.4    23.5    07.2    21.3          73.1       4.6      5.7      6.7      8.6    10.7       36.5
C. 1U1*1318 Om                            53.0   406.3   516.1   571.3   632.4  2,179.2           26.5   203.2   253.2    265.6   326.2  1l,b8.6
e. OFFICE S9 ItS AR  5T1*1106t             7.1      2.6      8.5      9.3      3.4      30.9       3.6      2.3      4.2      4.6      1.7      05.4
C. OIlER WIE                                 - .2M3.2  2624.3  2.001.6  2,097.5   73*6.7                   46.6   91222  10000.6  1.099.6   -45.3
total Kammi  CosTS                           ,07.9  5.226.  7.582.5  9,428.0 00,97.0  34.192.3       554.0  2.363.4  3.913  4.709.0  5.478.5  17.096.1
.es.na en.... as.8.. ......  .......... a         .         s      ...  .8*t   ..aaa                    .aa.
total "Mt COSTIS                           47.44.5 56P195,9 41,395.5 40324.0 47,250.8 23381.0  23.8023 .8092.0 m    O0698.3 20,667.0 23625.0 112690.5
...s 4....... afl eea s  a.....a4.                           . .. ..
__N-_--e-P-*Fwo' 30. 193- 26-;-20--                                        ----------
Noh Sot Im 16;20



ZIABE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AnD EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Financing PIon CM  Million)
Credit                     Civil                                                                        Recurrent
C_For_eru         SealIholders       Work         Vehicle    Equtnmit    Studies        Consultancy   Training   Costs         Total
A. AFC
ID              16.6                8.6            1.9            3.e         1.9                                                            29.e
IFAD                                 15.8            -             -            -                                                              15.0
Japan/                                               -             -            -             -             0.6          06         -           1.1
AFC                -                   -             3 .            0 .2        10            -             -            -          9.7        14.7
Formers           8.7                 -              -              -           -             -             -            -          -           8.?
COZ                0.6                14.8                                                                                                     11.1
Sub-Total        26.8                  7.            77 1i                      2.9           -             371          11         -T7        34.4
S. cu
TMo                ^                   -             1.7           0.2          4.1           -             -            -          -           6.o
BADEA              -                   -             -              0.4         9.2           -             -            -          -           9.7
Japan              -                  -              -              -           -             6.2            .2          3.0        -            .7
CIIB               -                   -             -              -           -                           -            -          7.0        7?.
coz                                    ~~~~~~~4.8     6.1          8.1          -                          --                      7.
Sub-Total       -                   -                                                                                                         ?.. Ti  Ti  ri  ri  Hi
C. Hort. Research
IBRD               -                  -              0.2           3.1          3.2           -             -            -          -           3.5
Japan V/           -                   -             -              -           -                                                               -
Nr Ze Iaand        -                                 -              -           -             0.2           -            -           -           .2
coz                -                                 0 .2           6.1         0.2           ---0.69
Sub-Total        -                  -                            El9 3§ Ui                                                                  .174
Total          26.8                37.9           12.1           1.7         19.8           0.4           -.*                    17.1       116.9
D. S_r  of Finunct-ru 
IB~RD .LFin      ier3                 3.               809.6                                  -             -            -          -          s.a
IFAD               -                 1650            -             -            -             -             -            -          -          15.0
BADEA              -                   -             -              6.4         9.8           -             -            -          -           9.7
Japan              -                   -             -              -           -             0.2           e.3          G.8        -           1.1
MM Zea l nd        -                   -             -              -           -             0.2           -            -          -           6.2
AFC                -                   -             8.8           0.2          1.3           -             -            -          9.7        14.7
CbB                -                   -             4.3            3.1         8.1           -             -            -           7.0       14.5
Fur_ra             B.7                 -             -              -           -             -             -            -           -          8.7
Coz                6.6                14.3           4.S            0.2         8.3           -             -            -          0.4        23.5
Total                              37 J   U.9    fMi             177         19.6         i4             0i.          e.s       17.1       116.9
^J Consultancits Include about Z$8.6 million for computer personnel and Z3.?7 million for group lending; training includes about Z88.3 million for
overses stff training in computers, and Z30.6 million for group lending training.
V     A s1ma l amount of Z120,    wil I be needed for concultancy to the Horticultural Reserch Station.
I! 



- 76 -
Annc.c 3
Table 12
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Extended Disbursement of IBRD Loan (US$ Million)
Semester            Cumulative
FY 89/90
First Semester              -                     -
Second Semester            1.5                   1.5
Sub-Total           1.5
FY 90/91
First Semester             3.5                   5.0
Second Semester            4.5                   9.5
8.0
FY 91/92
First Semester             2.5                  12.0
Second Semester            4.0                  16.0
6.5
FY 92/93
First Semester             4.5                  20.5
Second Semester            6.5                  27.0
11.0
FY 93/94
First Semester             3.0                  30.0
Second Semester            4.5                  34.5
7.5
FY 94/95
First Semester             1.0                  35.5
Second Semester            0.8                  36.3
1.8



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
Group Lending Pilot Scheme
Implementation Guidelines
1.       The selection of districts, and wards within a district, would
conform to the following criteria:
(a) The district would have a large concentration of small farmers,
and an established AFC district office.
(b) Each selected ward within every district identified as above would
have at least 8-9 groups that conform to the criteria detailed in
para. 2 below, and willing to participate in the Scheme.
(c) At least one ward in each selected district would have a high
proportion of female farmers, and population strata that reflect
different income levels of small farmer households.
2.       As conditions for participating in the Pilot Scheme, the group
would:
(a) have, as its members not more than 50 small farmers engaged
primarily in farming activities in or within the vicinity of the
groups kraal in order to ensure maximum cohesion among the
members;
(b) show that the majority of its members are willing to participate
in the Pilot Scheme and to borrow credit from AFC on terms and
conditions applying thereto;
(c) organize itself on the principles of equal treatment to all
members irrespective of gender, joint and several liability;
(d) have, as its objective, the intention to operate on a long-term
basis, and to undertake input supply and produce marketing
functions for its members, in addition to credit services;
(e) establish itself in accordance with provisions of the applicable
legislations of Zimbabwe at least at the level of the Village and
Ward Development Committees; I
(f) elect a chairperson, a secretary, and a treasurer, from among its
members who are capable of guiding financial and business
operations of the group in a sound manner, and maintaining
Il
I/
The development councils which enjoy legal authority over land allocation
and which are part of the rural development structure.



ANNEX 4
- 78 -                                Page   2
discipline among the members; and willing to participate in the
training program under the scheme;
(g) establish and maintain simple accounting records;
(h) depute its office bearers and/or training;
(i) undertake to encourage its members to generate own resources
through membership fee and savings.
(j) establish and maintain a savings account with lawful financial
institutions in order to deposit its income on loan operations and
other revenues, as well as savings generated from its members.
3.       To qualify for loans from AFC, the group would be required to:
(a)  have paid lOOZ oif the loans granted to the group except for
defaults due to force mejeure as may be determined by the AFC
Board:
(b)  provide evidence that appropriate actions are being taken
against willful defaulters;
[c)  ensure, through the group leaders, that credit is used for
the intended purposes;
(d)  maintain sound accounts for each individual member;
.e)  lend to members at the same interest rate as AFC charges to
individuals directly borrowing from AFC;
(f)  use the spread allowed to it only for administrative costs
and create a reserve fund, in a deposit account with
reputable financial institutions, for any surpluses from the
interest spread for the purpose of covering credit risks, and
authorize AFC to register a stop-order against the reserve to
repay, outstanding debt;
(g)  authorize AFC to register a stop-order for the purpose of
loan repayments;
(h)  not approve new loans for any member. or his/her dependent,
in default beyond four weeks after tne due repayment date for
loans borrowed from the group or directly from AFC;
(i)  establish and implement a system of written agreement to be
signed by member-borrowers specifying terms and conditions of
loans, including a joint and several liability clause.
4.       AFC, on its part, would:
(a)  charge, for loans channelled through groups, a rate of
interest that is less than the one charged to individual
borrowers; the group an interest rate spread of at least l.52
below the AFC's lendiug rate to individuals;



ANNEX 4
- 79 -                              Page   3
(b) charge the group the same rate as applicable to individuals
borrowing directly from AFC, for any loans intended for use
by the group as such;
(c) ensure that all group loans are legally subject to joint and
several liabilities.



AMICILTWU  CRh1T #A  ERFUT P1111W(11 PUEC
Crop Budget: Maize
castl                        EaCm  2                                                    CzoI  as 2                ommercial Farme
Price       Fares               ValIe!  Form                  Vaine/  Fare                                               Value!  fares                Vial'e for"
lusts          (1)       (25       hiatity EastlIll  1161        heatit CostuIS)  (21)        hautsty  WaSl(4   (265        haRtaty Coitus)  (211        Iastity CoatUll] (III
Pruduation      (t0,s5       5130.00     -              .60   29.00      -           .40   612.00                 t.00   1310.00    -2.30   414.00               -5.50   M90O0D
E0TS
seeds          if              0.75        0.30       25.00    13.75     5.63   ~    5      13.7      5.63       25.00    131.75    5.63     .25  d   13.15      5.63       25.00    18.75     5.63
Fertilizers
Coup I       too           355.00        0.45        0.10   '35.50    15.9         0.U   106.50    47.93        0.05    17.75     7.99        0.23    71.00    S1.9"       0.33   124.25    55.91
AUN           too          406.00        0. 45       0.10    40.60    13.27       0.25   10.50    45.611        0.05    20.30    9.1          0.55   60.90    27.41        0.30   121.30    54.11
Aawe          ton            45.00        0.30         -      -        -           0.25    11.25    3.338               -        -            0.215   11.25     3.33        0.25    11.25    3.33
herbic~ids     pack            6.00        0.50                                  -      -             -        -       -          -                 -            -          L2.00    72.00    36.30
InSecticad&,   k4              1.20        0.50        2.00     2.40     1.20       4.00    4.30      2.40        2.00     2.40    1.20        4.00     4.30     2.40        2.00     2.40     1.20
Oier. (haredi   ha            55.00        0.05        1.00 ~55.00       2.75        1.00    55.00    2.75        1.00    55.00  .2.15         1.00    55.00    3.75           -        -
Tractor        litre           5.50        0.65          -               -            -        -       -            -                                            -          75.00   112.5    73.13S
Labour0
hired        ed 2j           3.30        0.00          -        -     -             -                -            -        -                                   -          48.00   132.40     0.00                  0
feaalv       ad 1j           3.30        0.00       35.00  ILISdO    0.00        46.00   174.30    0.00        31.00   117.30    0.00       39.00   148.20     0.00          -              -
Iranport-an    too            20.00        0.65        0.23     4.60    2.9         0.33    16.60    50.79        0.13     2.60     5.69       0.63    12.60     3.19        0.93   153.0    12.03
Transport-out   tca           15.00        0.65        1.60    24.30    15.60        3.40    51.00    33.15       1.00    15.00    9.75         2.30    34.5    22.43        5.50   32.50    53.63
Prod. Levy      value 23               -           -              -      -             -        -                 -         -                                      -           -      6.93     0.00
fliscallaftecas       33                 -               -      9.04     1.45          -     PJ.27     4.57         -      6.59     0.99                13.44     3.36               3.66    15.07
Total Eost                      .                              22.69    63.36          -    558.47   156.26              256.19    39.13               430.1.4   1 01.41            7WC.14   310.76
930M  AR61SIS                                                   134.39u                        53.53                       576.19)                       5.4 -                        199.06
Fasaly Labour  ad 13           3.30         -         35.00   133.00     -          46.00   174.30     -         31.00   117.30     -          39.00   543.20                                   -
6005 $W30k (Eacd. Faa. Labour I               -           -      98.11     --   223.33                   -            -    41.61      .131.76 
Retornltan-day af Fasily Labour               -           -       2.80     -             -     4.96      -            -      1.34     -                    3.381-
btaraMna-day of Famsyl Labour 4j                                 3.49                          6.07                          1.35                         4.26                        211.3
Aivrp FCIEI (ZN-                                                    -      0. "t         -       -      0.28                   -      0.15                         0.25          -               0.39
VNIL: Cast 1, average current, withou  credit, satuatbon; Case 2, good managmet and appropiate isput Ilevels
1-! Prevailing *arj tar hired labor,j amputed sage rate far family labor
I._t it 0.7n c total value of production; commrcial productrs omly
33 Estaeated at 52 of total costs; faaily labor excluded
431 Ultalaiog Prices for the 1938169 marketing season (ZS 195.0 m.ton)



MItULTlL UE3l 1[TP     N TISl UNECT
Crop Budget: Cotton
-------tural Rii  l                          1-                          ---Ntural hpm 1            -1-   --aral Ibi I1-
tasel                        Case2                        CumeI                        Cam 2                   Ca_rtial Farm
unit       Forus               Val"    Fores                 Vain    Frm                  Valu    Faong                Vai     Foru                Vain    Fwrs
tWits      Price        lU        hIbtity Cost(il  fi15        hatity Cost(lS)  (ll)        haotity CostlUIs  (ISI        hatity CoItSZ6II (26)       htity  WMitqSl  1101
REVEMBS
Productiom        (tonsl        740.00              O     .0   6.00        -          1.30  942.00      -          0.75   555.00                1.10  814.00      -          I.95 1,4qus     e
COSTS
Snds              kg              0.21       0.30       30.00    6.30     1.39       30.00    6.30     1.89       30.00    6.30     1.69       30.00    4.30     1.39       30.00    6.30    1.39
ed  treatmt  kg                0.57        0.50                  -       -           -                                             -                    -                  1.00    0.5?    0.29
imttilazet
com L           too           405.00       0.45        0.10   40.50   11.23         0.25   101.25   45.56        0.08    32.40    14.53       0.19   72.90   32.81         0.30   121.50    54.6
Alh             too           406.00       0.45        0.06   24.36    10.96        0.12    41.72    21.92       0.05    20.30    9.14        0.10   40.60    18.27        0.10    40.60    13.27
IIIm            too           45.00        0.30        -         -       -          0.25    1l.25    3.31        0.25   11.25     3.38        0.25    11.25    3.39        0.25    11.25    3.33
ierbicimJs        litre          30.00 l-/   0.5          -        -       -           -                -           -        -       -        -            -                 5.00   150.00    75.-0
Pesticides        pack          200.00 2_    0.50        1.00   200.00   140Ae        1.00   200.00  100.00        1.00   200.00   100.00       1.00  200.00   100.00        1.00  200.00   l00.00
Sprayin cost      I ha           :0.00       0.65         -       -                    -                -           -        -       .           -        -       -          1.00   20.00    13.00
Ouent iredi       I ha           55.00       0.05        1.00    55.00    2.7         l.00    55.00    2.75        1.00    55.00    2.75        1.00   55.00    2.75           -        -        -
Tractor           litre           1.50       0.65         e        -       -           -                      -                    -            --                          75.00  112.50   73.13
Labour
hired           ad              4.00 31    0.00       25.00   500.00    0.00       35.00   10.00    0.00        20.00    30.00    0.00       30.00   120.00    0.00       52.00  208.00    0.40 0
faisly          ad             4.00 31    0.00        62.00  248.00    0.00        30.00  320.00    0.00        54.00  216.00    0.00        67.00  268.00    0.00          -         -       -
Fachsm  got       tcntoutput      3.33       0.50        0 90    3.00     1.50        1.30    4.33     2.16        0.75    2.50      1.25       1.10    3.66      1.13       1.95     6.49    3.25               1
Transprt-i        too           20.00        0.65        0.19    3.30    2.47         0.65    13.00    3.45        0.16    3.20    2.08         0.56    11.20    7.28        0.68    13.60    3.34
Tra.sport-out     too           40 (III      0.65        o9o    36.00   23.40         1.30    52.00   33.30        0.75    30.00    19.50       1.10   44.00   21.60         1.95   21.45    13.9
P'ol. Levy        value            -  4 I   0.00          -         -      -           -                            - -      -        -          -        -        -                 20.20    0.00
NIscellanaous       -              -  5 t    -            -      23.45    5.16         -      31.59    7.27         -      22.05    5.29         -      23.25     6.7-               46.62    17.25
Total Cost       -              -          -           -    740.40   166.35         -    93.44   227.13          -    673.99   159.35         -      61.1   203.53          -    979.09  3W2.90
-..-.-- ------------- - - ----- ------------ -  - -- ---- - --- .-----
lSs  "ASIN                           -                      -    (74.403     -           -    (21.441    -            -   (123.991    -            -    (47.161    -                  463.91      -
Fully Labowr 4_m               4.00 3       -    .   62.00  245.00       -        90.00   320.00      -        54.00   216.00      -         67.00  268.00            -             -
US NS5 hRM(Excl. Family Labourl    -            -                 173.60    ;-                 291.56      -          -      92.01      -          -    220.84                  -                 _
At'urn/whny of Family Labour         -          -           -       2.80      -          -       3.73      -          -       1.70      -          -       3.30            -             -
Return/anoda  of Family  baor 6_I    -                      -       3.13                         3.13                 -       1.96      -          -       3.74      -          -    551.26 6-j
Iveroge FOREE                        -          -           -         -     0.22         -         -     0.23         -         -      0.24        -        -       0.24        -        -       0.39
lote; Case 1, uverargt turrent without credit sitution; Case 2, good uanaeoet and appropiaet it levels
Ij Catoris 3 4 and diuron 2 kg
2J Inclading carbaryl-8K  2.5 kg, endosupnan-35 2.5 It, pyreteoid 1.0 It, dsuthoate-40 0.5 It, triazopoos-40 0.7 It, and molass  30 It
3_$ Prevailin  baie for sesi-skilled labor imputed sage rate for faesl  laor
4] At 1.4: of total value of production, comercial prodvcers aonl
5.  Estimated at St of total costs, faeily labor excluded
6j Rettrns to fasily labor I ad gross margius for cosurcial farursl atliting prices for the 1988189 arketieg seascm IS 786.3Ja.ton



IIE
AiICILTUKL CeDIT MU EIPIRT PRIION PROJECT
Crop Budget: Soyabeans
-Itual beim 11-   ----atural Regis 111-
Can I                       Cme 2                       Can I                        Case 2
unit       Faes               Valul  fores                Valsl  Faens                Vall  Fares                 Value   Fame
Umits      Price(S)    it)        klatity CustMl1 tI)         hatity Cmst(ll (tI          Qratity Castl) 41)           owtity Cost(l$l (Sl
pruitim           (tins)       35.00       -           o.se  34.30       -          1.50  57.50    -            0.60  30000                  1.25  481.25    -
Sewds            kg              0.7s       0.30         .00 o   70.20   21.04     S0.00   70.20   21.04       90.00   70.20   21.04        90.00   70.20   21.04
imctal.        pck             0.75       0.50        -        -        -         2.00    1.50    0.75                                     2.00    1.50    0.75
sed trestat    to              3.00       0.50         -       -        -         0.20    1.40 o .K                                        0.20    1.40    0.K
Fertilizer
coap O          too          355.00       0.45        0.10  3J5.5o    1.                                      0.10   35.50   15.9           -       -        -
SsP             ton          2M.00        0.45         -       -        -         0.20   51.20   23.04                                     0.15   38.40   17.29
cap U           ton          351.00       0.45         -       -        -         0.20   70.20   31.59                                     0.1    52.65   23.49
tim            to             45.00       0.0         0.10    4.50    1.35        0.25    11.25    3.38       0.10    4.50    1.35         0.25    11.25    3.38
lsecticides      it            13.00       0.50        1.00   13.00    4.50        1.50  I.50    9.75         1.00   13.00      .50        1.50   19.50    9.75
Cr (hired)        value         55.00       0.e5        1.00   55.00    2.75        1.00   55.00    2.75        1.00   55.00    2.75         1.00   55.00    2.75
Labour
hird            ed i           3.90       OMO          -       -        -                  -        -          -        -       -           -       -        -
family         md j            3'.0       0.00      52.00   197.40    0.00       43.00  239.0      0.00      49.00  192.40    0.00        63.00   239.40    0.00
Trasgart-an       ton           20.00       0.65       0.29    5.10    3.77         0.74   14.60    9.42        0.2?    5.80    3.77         0.44   12.80    1.00
TranWrt-aut      ton            15.00       0.65       0.90   13.50    8.78         1.50   22.50   14.63        0.80    12.00    7.80        1.25   18.75    12.19
0.00    0.00
Prod. Levy        value 2j       -           -           -       -        -          -       -        -          -        -       -           -       -        -
llistella s            3i         -          -           -      9.8      1.49        -      15.89    3.34        -       9.90    1.47         -     14.09     2.48
Total Cost          -          -          -           -    404.99   61.4          -    573.04  120.70         -    388.20   40.49          -    535.13    5.32
GaSS                    -           -          -          -    158.48)    -            -      4.4       -       -        110.20)                -    (53;.8)    -
Fasiy Labur  *  QJ            3.80        -         52.00  1MM.60      -        63.00  239.40      -         49.00  182.40               43.00   239.40     -
6RC55 lUIP1Excl. Family Labour)    -                       -    139.12      -          -    243.9       -       -        102.20                 -    185.52      -
Retmrntaday otf Fialy Labour        -                             2.48      -          -       3.97     -                  2.13                 -      2.94      - 
bturn/nday of Family Lar 4_1                                      3.29                         4.70                        2.71                        3.44
Aw.i4g  FOEK            -           -          -          -        -       0.15        -       -       0.21      -                  0.14        -       -       0.1I
1l0E: Case 1, avrage current, sithout credit, situation; Case 2, goad man ent and apprepiaht iput levels
lj Prevailing age far hired labor., isputed value far family IDbor
2_J At 1.51 of total value of production; comurcial farws only
3_ Estimated at 52 Qt total costs, family labor excluded
4j Rturns ta fmily labor utilizing prices for the 1988199 uarketing season ! S 420.00/m.ton)



MICLIITU. CUB1T IS [VWT P3101 INUPOW
Crop Budget: Groundnuts
-latura hie l-                        -                  Ntural gimll
Cam  I                      CAN 2                       cm l                         Came2
Ihit       Fwre.s           Vain/  Fars                 ValwI   Forx                Vglui   Fms                  Vila/  Femes
UWits      Vaiuu(iO    (3)    hastiLy CtUstl$)  fil        katitv CoitUS)  1IS)         hatitk   CoistS")  u)      iOusatity COMtl)  (16)
Fitoinctim        Items)          5$5      -         0.40  351.00    -            1.10  443.50    -           0.50  m.50                  o.s0  524.50
Seds,(purchaed)  ke              1.25    0.30                                   120.00  150.00   45.00                                   120.00  150.00   45.00
. Seeds,toma        kg              0.8    0.30      120.00   9.00   23.10                                    120.00  9S.00   28.60
Fertilit r
SS?             tan             254    0.45        0.10   25.40   11.52         0.35   19.40   40.32        0.10   25.60   11.52         0.20   51.20   23.04
yps             ton            55.4    0.45                                     0.10    5.54    2.49                                     0.10    5.54    2.49
lie             ton              45    0.45                                    a.20    9.00    4.05                                     0.20    9.00    4.05
Insecticides      It 1/            14    0.50                                    0.40    5.10    2.80                                     0.30    4.20    2.10
Oze (hired)       I ha             55    0.05        1.00   55.00    2.75         1.00   55.00    2.75        1.00   55.00    2.75         1.00   55.00    2.75
Labor
hired           ad 2j           3.8 2_J 0.00       9.00   34.20    0.00        12.00   45.40      -         7.00   26.60    0.00        10.00   33.00    0.00
family          ad 2_j          3.9 2. 0.00       54.00  205.20    0.00       69.00  258.0      0.00       48.00   182.40    0.00      58.00   220.0     0.00
Packing Nlatuis   t/oe tput      1.50    0.30        0.0       .0    0.27        1.10    1.45    0.50         0.50    0.75    0.23        0.90    1.35    0.41                                  w
Iransport-is      too              20    0.45        0.10    2.00    1.30        0.11    15.40   10.01        0.10    2.00    1.30        O.U2   12.40    3.04                                  1
Transprt-out      ton              15    0.65        0.40    9.00    5.35        1.10   16.50   10.73         0.50    7.50    4.0         O."0   13.50    3.73
Prod. Levy        valu  3j                  -        -
iscelllenus (51-                          -        -       11.14    1.34        -      1.49    3.35                 10.61    1.20               17.01    2.21
Total Cost                    -          -        -      439.04   51.3         -     671.93   121.99              404.52   50.75              427.40   53.38
6UW 31111                                                     -9.03    -           -      -28.4u    -                 -114.02                       ".90
Faily Labour  ad 2j           3.80               54.00  205.20    -           68.00  258.00    -          49.00  192.40                58.00  220.40
6RISS MR61N(Excl. Family Labour)   -          -        -      117.17    -           -     229.92    -                   U.39                       319.30
bturnladWay of Family labur        -          -        -        2.17    -           -       3.39    -                    1.42                        5.51
Rtora/Nanday of Faaily Labour 4j                                2.8W            *           4.43                         2.19                        4. 49
neraqe FREI             -          -          -        -        -       0.12        -       -        0.1                -       0.12                         0.13
Note: Case 1, awearge current, wthout credit, situationw  case 2, good mnagmnt and appropiate impts Ieels
Ij  uaestoo-S-Nthyl 25
2j Prevaliling uage for hired labor, ispAted apge rate for family labor
3J At 1.53 of total value of production; comercial farmers only
43 Raturrs to family labor utilizing prices for the 1989/69 earketing season I Z 6501m.ton unshellad)



iI-
aUMCIIUlALI CIIDI  a   ET cm     T10i1  UEC
Crop Budget: Sunflower
Cas l                       Case 2                       Cas I                        Can 2
liut       Fores                Vaui/  Forts                Valuu/  Fores                Value/  Form                 Vale   forne
Units      FricelIS)   (I)        kantity CostliSI   s)        katity CostlZl  1U()         Gwntity Cost(ISl) (11        BDuntty CostuS)  (lS)
REVENUES
frodacttua        Itons)        390.00     -             0.90  312.00      *          1.30   507.00     -          0.55   214.50                1.00   390.00
COSTS
Seeds             kg              1.10       0.30       10.00    11.00    3.30       10.00    11.00    3.30       10.00    11.00    3.30       10.00   11.00    3.30
Fertilaier
coop L          too           405.00       0.45        0.05   20.25    9.11         0.15   40.75   27.34                                      0.10   40.50    18.23
AIN             too           404.00       0.45        0.05   20.30    9.14         0.10    40.40    13.27       0.05    20.30    9.14        0.10   40.40    18.27
Line            tow            45.00       0,30        0.10    4.50     1.35        0.25   11.25     3.38                                     0.15    4.75    2.03
Insecticidus      It             19.00       0.50         -       -       0.00        1.00    19.00    9.50                                     1.00    19.00    9.50
Oben Ibiredl      I ha           55.00       0.05        1.00    55.00    2.75        1.00    55.00    2.75        1.00    55.00    2.75        1.00   55.00    2.75
Labour
hirb            Id              3.80 1j    0.00         -       -        -           -       _        -        - 
family          ad             3.90 1_     a 00       52.00   117.40    0.00       48.00   251.40    0.00       45.00   171.00    0.00       55.00  209.00     0.00
lruasport-in      ton           20.00        0.45        0.21    4.20    2.73         0.51    10.20    4.43        0.60   12.00    7.60         0.34    7.20    4.48
transprt-out      ton            15.00       0.45        0.90   12.00    7.90         1.30    19.50   12.48        0.55    9.25    5.36         1.00   15.00    9.75
Prod. Levy        value               2 J     -           -       -                    -       -        -           -       -        -           -       -        -
aiscellaneons (51)     -                                  -      11.24    2.92         -     24.29    4.6           -     13.86    4.02         -      20.20     4.44
lotal Cost                -                -           -    341.09   39.10          -    509.99   38.49          -    291.43   32.37         -    424.25    72.94
6ROSS NAIGIM             -          -           -           -     (29.093    -           -      (2.99     -          -     (76.93)     -          -    (34.25)    -
Family Labour  ad              3.90 II     -         52.00   197.40     -         48.00  2718.40     -          -5.00   171.00    -         55.00  209.00      -
ORMSS WA61N 1ExCl. FaU. Labor        -          -           -    I.51       -           -    255.42      -           -     94.07      -           -    174.75      -
Returalflanday of FaU. Labor         -          -           -       3.24     -           -      3.76      -           -      2.09      -           -      3.19      -
Returnif day of Fan. Labor 3_1                                    3.86                         4.52                         2.58                         3.90
Average FCIE-    -                       .      -           -       -       0.11         -       -       0.17                 -       0.11         -       -       0.17
NOTEs Cast 1, average current, without credit, situation; Cast 2, good  anageumot and appropiate isput lews
1j Frevalilinq sage for hired labor, imputed wage rate for family laor
2! At 1.51 al total value of production; commercial farsers Only
3_/  eturns to fasily labor utilizing prices for the 198189  arketing uaso  I S 430.00/a.toal



AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Crop Budget; Smalliulder Tobacco
CWE  I lj                           cSE  2ij                               CASE  3 It
Ur,Lt       Forex:                hl           Fores                   Vali          For6x                    ValueI       Forex
Units       PricellS)    (I       Duantity    Costul)        (Ih)      Quantity    CostMiS)        I3I5       2uantitv    Costill     (ll)
                                                               _.-.              - ..... . ... .._________ ,___,_ _ __ ___ __
REVEILES
Procattior.           tcasl       2,190.00      -           1.00     2,190.00                    1.20      2,616.00         -           1.40     3,052.00
- -- -- -- -^- -..- -,.- - --  - -- -- - --    - -- -- - --    - _-- - --    - -- -__- - -    -- - -- - -    ___      
Seeds                kg              0.92      0.30         8.30         7.54       2.29         6.30          7.64        2.29         9.30         7.64        2.29
Fertil zer
seed bed           pack            6.15      0.45         1.00         5.15       2.77         1.00          5.11        2.77         1.00         5.15        2.77
Loop C             tOD            46.00      0.45         0.55       304.20      136.69        0.70        327.50      147.42         0.75       351.00      157.95
AIN                ton            406.00     0.45         0.15        50. 0       27.41        0.15         60. 0       27.41         0.20        51.20       3.54
lim                tca            35.00      0.30         0.25         8.75       2.53         0.50         17.50        5.25        0.30         17.50        5.25
Pestic ides
sed bed            pack            40.)0     0.50         1.00        40.00      2a.00         1.00         40.00       20.00         1.00        40.00       20.00
EBB                lit              9.50     0.50        12.00       105.60       52.50        5.00         44.L0       22. 0         5.t0        44.00       22.00
other              pack           28.00      0.50         1.00       221.00      114.00        1.00        22.00       114.00         1.00       221.00      114.00
Oxen (hired)         I ha            55.00     0.05         1.00        51.00        2.75        1.00         55.00         2.15        1.00        55.00        2.75
Labour
hured              ed              4.00 22 0.00          41.00       14.00        0.00        49.00        196.00        0.00        51.00       244.00        0.00                                   I
fai ly             ad              4.00 2- 0.00         198.00      m7.o          0.00       215.00        960.00        0.00       20.0         90.00         0.00                 cx
Cosl                 ton            67.00      0.50         3.30       221.10       56.33        4.0)        255.00       0.40         5.00       335.00       100.50                                 U
larn  anmtm          valJe             -       0.35          -         110.00       39.50         -          130.00       45.5C          -         150.00       56.00
Packing eat          tonloutput      19,o0     0.30         1.00        19.00        5.70        3.20         22.80        6.94         1.50        2i8.50       9.55
raasport-in         ton            2c.00   *.0.65          0.9t        19.20      12.49         1.30         26.40       16.S0         1.60        32.00       20.Bu
Iransport-out        ton            15.00      6.65         1.00        15.00       9.75         1.20         19.00       11.70         1.40        21.00       13.65
anodlinq Fee         bale             2.00 3/1 0.10          -          29.57        2.95         -           34.29        3.43          -          40.00        4.00
2rod. Lev            value                41  --
1i1rellanmous 5s/                                                       6 -  6.23   15.01                     n.23         15.92         *          S2.55        1 16.16
Tctal Cost          -               -        -            -       2,255.33      a12.16                  2,414.26      s24.58                  2,733.54      5S5.21
6GMSS5611                -               -        -            -          173.33)       -           -          2CI.74          -           -         319.46          -!
Family "atour     ad               4.00      -         198.00       192.00         -        215.00        6O.00           -        240.00       960.00
6POSS NAiIN(Excl. Fail:y Labour)         -                     -         719.67         -           -        1,061.74          -           -       1,273.45          -
Getirn/tanday ot FasIly Labur            -        -            -            3.63        -           -            4.94                      -           5.33
Return/landay of Feanly Laouor 6j                                          6.76                                  8.40                                  3.94
Average FORE                             -        -            -             -         0.23         -              -          C.22         -             -
NOTES: 1j Case 1: average present situation; Case 2: media uraguent ad input lewls; Case 3: bigt mnagement anod inut levels
2Jl Average prevailing wage
3j At 1S 2 per 70 kg bale
4  iAt 1.3t total value of prodatioi; coemercial prooueers only.
51 Isimated at 5? ot total costa; faa;ly labor and handling costs excled
61 Returns to fanslg labor utlizing price,s for the 1998I/9  arketing season  I Zs 2O.tlu .tonl



IIE
MMCITJW O COEIT  D EV3   fUCIWIN 141ECT
Financial Analysis: Smallholder Poultry
(cunstat 1987 Zs I
foul
1       2         3        4        5        h        7        1        9       10t0 MAL   i1)   b        t
UIYESTIIENT COSTS                       --- -                        --    -    _   __                            -
Cage                                     00                                                                                        X0      0.20    13.0
Chikea mire a/                           42                                                                                         42    0.3s      14.7
Feederslucterials  U/                    43                                                                                         43     0.35     15.1
Pullets cl                              I97                                                                                        1U7     0.20     31.4
Tools, utensils                          20                                                                                         20    0.35       7.0
Feeds di                                30                                                                                         304     0.20     41.2
laicellaceos (110  of total5          109.8                                                                                      109.3    0.35    39.4
OIIIL IIESTIENITS                     1207.3                                                                                     1207.3     0.23    273.0
WEKRBTII  EtWOITUES
Feeds e   *                             547     1431     1431     1431      1631     1431     1431     1631     1631     £431    1522      0.20  3,045.2
Vet. and edicines                        20       20       20       20       20        20       20       20       20       20      200     0.40     20.0
Pullet replaceent cl                            17       197      197      187      117       lei      197      157     1i7      141      0.20    334.4
nazntenncef/ t40                                   0       40       40       40        40       60       60       40       *0      400     0.3s    210.0
Labor Si                              113.4   173.4    173.4   173.4   173.4    173.4   173.4   173.4   173.4   173.4             1734     0.00      0.0
HIsscellaaeous (101 ot total)         90.04   207.14   207.14   207.14   207.14   207.14   207.14   207.14   207.14   207.14   £964.3    0.35    480.5
10TAL OPERAI1NI  E1PENIOITlUS          O0.44  2270.54  227B.S4  221M.54  2211.54  2279.54  2278.54  227.54  2278.54  2211.54  213B7.3       0.20  4,352.3                     co
=CZ=    *#CZ=   2222a  #u2299  a=m   ~tZ=2    ==:s    Z=Z=    =:rn    aZ=v   rLmx
TaOAL COST                           2098.24  2279.54  2279.s4  2279.54  2278.54 2279.54  2279.54  2278.54  2271.5$  2273.54  22595.1       0.20  4,424.1
REVEES
Eggs hi                                1050     2520     2520     2520     2520      2520     2520     2520    2520      2520
Cull birds il                                    315      315      315       3&5      315      315      315      315      315
TOTlL REVWEIS                           1050     2e35    2135      2935     2935     2E35      2835    2835    295        29MS
NET ICOIIE                          -1038.24   556.46   556.44   556.44   554.46  556.46   556.44   S55.46   556.46   556.46
FnR - 18X
at 20 a chitken ire for rear3ng and layer house at Z12.1/a
bl 3 feed troughs at ZS 10.2 each and two drinkers at I1 4.2 each
cl 110, eight weks pullets at It 1.7 each
dl Crowrs sash 1 9 to 19 weks) 7 kg at ZS 0.3/kg, and layers sash
(119 to 22 weks) 3 kg/bird for a total of 100 birds                                                                                                                ,
eI Year 1, 5 months of layer sash for a total of 19kglbird at IS 0.32/kg.
Year 2 onwards, 44kg/bifd of layer cash at 21 0.32/hg for a total
of 90 birds, 7kg/bird of grower mash at IS 0.301kg and, 3kglbird of layer
mash at IS 0.32/kg for a total of 100 pullets
ft Estimated at n of total Investoent costs
g/ One hour of family labor per day at ZS 3.8/day
hl 90 birds at 20 dozen eggs per year, sold at Z4 1.4/dozen
i/ Sold at IS 3.5 each



Z .4ABWE
uRICULTIM. CUuIT so EIMT PUUII  PMULFr
Economic Analysis: Smallholder Poultry
(constant 1987 2s
1       2        3       4        5       6        7        8       9       10
INLOV                                 --  -   --  --                            _--  --- --_ - 
Value of Sales                                2.5 2,409.8  2,409.8 2,409.8 2,409.8 2,409.8 2,409.8 2,409.8 2,409.8
Residual valu aI                                                                                                 191.0
Total lifIb.                           0.0   892.3 2,409.8 2,409.8  2,409.8  2,409.8  2,409.8 2,409.8  2,409.8 2,590.9
DUTFLUN
Investment                          M0.3
lncr. working capital bi                     348.8   580.5
Operating expmndltures                       697.6  1,858.6  1,958.6  1,858.6  1,858.6  1,858.6  1,858.6  1,858.6 1b858.6
Total Outflow                        M83.3  1,046.4  2,439.1  1,958.6  1,858.6  1,958.6  1,858.6  1,958.6  1,958.6  1,858.6
Not Benefits                        1983.3)  1153.9)  129.4)  551.1   551.1   551.1   551.1   551.1   551.1   732.1
Economic Rate of ReturO =             0.25
a/ Estisated at 152 of tostal investmnts                                                                                                                 O
bi Equivalent to 502 of thew incremntal operating expenditures
0 Z



ZI1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EIPORT PONOTION PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Wheat
(constant 1997 16'000)
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -(Years)----
1    2     3    4    5    6        7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   19   19   20
INFLOW                                                                                                        -          -                        - -        -    -
Value of sales                                      75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3 75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3
Residual value a/                                                                                                                                              22.0
Total Inflow                                         75.3  75.3  75.3  75.-  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3 75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3  75.3 75.3  75.3 75.3 97.3
OUTFLOL
lovesteent                                   142.0
locr. marking capital bI                            29.0
Opecating exp2nditure-                              47.6  47.6 47.6  47.6  47.4  47.4  47.6  47.6  47.6 47.6  47.4  47.6 47.4  47.6 47.6 47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6
Total Outtlio                                 142.0  76.6 47.6  47.6 47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6 47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6  47.6
let Benefits                                 (142.0) (1.3)-27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  277  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  49.7
Finantial Rate of Return             0.15    0.154
a/ Estiaated at 152 of total investment
bi Equivalent to 60% of the incremental operating expeditures                                                                                                                         X



tlllE
ARICULlTi3M  CREDIT AND EUIT MUTION PROECT
Eco-.Jmic Analysis: Wheat
(castaot 1997 ZSbOeeI
-(Years) -----
1     2      3      4     5      6     7      8      9    10    it    i2    13    14    15    lb    17   19    19    20
WONI                                        -          -    --     -     --        __   _    ___    __   _   __ _          _    __ --__
Value ot uales                                   82.9  05.6  80.2  91.0   5.d   9.7  91.7  998.7   1.7  96.7  99.7  99.7  9.7  91.7  98.7   9M7  K.7  9.7  91.7
Residul valu  *1                                                                                                                                                        11.0
Total letlou                                     92.9  95.6  88.2  91.0  ".9  9B.7  98.7  9B.7  ".7   ".7  98.7  98.7  ".7  98.7  ".7  91.7 91.7  9B.7 114.7
OUTFLOW
lovteent                                  117.9
loct. working capital hI                         23.8
Operating eemditures                              39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7 39.7  39.7  39.7
Total Outflou                             117.8  63.5  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7  39.7
Not  enotits                             (117.8) 19.4  45.9  48.5  51.3  56.1  59.0  59.0  59.0  59.0  59.0  59.0  59.0  39.0  59.0  59.0  59.0 59.0  59.0  77.0
Ecoaie  Rate of Return                     0.36
al Estasatad at ISl of total investet
hi Equvalent to 601 of the iscregestal operating eapaditurn                                                                                                                                  c
.0
*
U



ZIlADIVE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND ENPORT PRUIMTTaM PRIUfT.
Financial Analysis: Roses 1/
(constant 1987 150OOO)
---a----------------rs----------- ---
I        2         3        4         5        6         7         8                 10
tEfLON--
Value of sales                                    462.0    660.0    660.0    660-0    660.0    60.0    660.0    660.0    660.0
Residual value a/                                                                                                               76.0
Total Inilow                                       462.0    660.0    660.0       60.0    660.0    66.0    660.0    660.0    736.0
OUTFLOU
Investeent                              404.0                                                                 'D
Incr. aorking capital bl                          178.0      5.0                                                                                                                   0
Operating expenditares                            359.0    463.0    463.0    463.0    463.0    4b3.0    470.0    463.0    463.0
Total Outflow                            404.0    537M 0    515.0    463.0    463.0    463.0    463.0    470.0    463.0    463.0
Net Benefits                            (404.0)   (75.0)   145.0    197.0    197.0    197.0    197.0   l.0    197.0    197.0
Financial Rate of Return                  0.28
a* Estimated at 151 oa total investeent
bl Equivalent to 501 of the increeentil expenditureo
1/ Details in Project File
a.!
_ n1



ZIINSADE
ASRICULTURAL .EDIT AND  FIPIIRT PRWNIT!nU PDn.cri
rrconomUX lc Inaysls. Ro ses
(CoFctant 1987 ZS'000)
1        2         3        4         5        6         7        a         9       to
INFLOW                                           ----   ---
Value of sales                            0.0    462.0    660.0    60.0    660.0    660.0    460.0    660.0    660.0 4        60.0
Residual value al                                                                                                              62.0
Total Intlow                                      462.0    660.0    660.0    660.0    660.0    660.0    660.0    660.0    722.0
OUTFLON
Invesreent                              326.3                                  17.0      50.9     16.l
lncr. vorking capital bJ                         154.0      46.4                                                                                                      F
Operating expenditures                           308.1    401.0    401.0    401.0    401.0    401.0    405.9    401.0    401.0
Total Outflow                            3%6.3    462.1    447.4    401.0    418.0    451.9    417.8    405.9    401.0    401.0
Net Benetits                            (326.31    (0.1)   212.6    259.0    242.0    208.1    242.2    254.1    259.0    321.0
Economic Rate of Return                   0.47
al Estimated at 15Z of total investment
b/ Equivalent to SOX of the incremental expenditures



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Annual Flowers 1/
IConstant 1987 ZS4000)
----------   ---------- Y---ears --    --------------
1        2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9        10
IkFLO                                  --------   --------   -  ----
Value of sales                                   900.0    900.0    900.0       000      00.0    900.0    900.0    930.0    900.0
Residual value at                                                                                                              44.0
Total Inflow                                      900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    944.0
OUTFL0i
investment                              292.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     35.0      20.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Incr. working capital bJ                         386.0       5.0
Operating expenditures                           771.0    781.0    781.0    761.0    791.0    78I.0    781.0    701.0    781.0
Total Outflow                            '92.0  1,157.0    786.0    781.0    781.0    116.0    901.0    781.0   781.0    781.0
NE-t Benefits                           -.292.01  (257.03   114.0    119.0    119.0       84.0     99.0    119.0    119.0    163.0
Financial Rate at Return  =               0.13
a/ Estimated at 157 of total investaent
bI Equivalent to 50% of the incresental operating expenoitures
1/ Details In Project File
'H



ZIMABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Annual Flowers
(Constant 1987 ZS'0001
-------------Taar---------------------
1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8        9        10
Value of sales                              0.0     0.       900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    90.0    900.0    900.0    900.0
Residdal value a/                                                                                                                   42.0
Total lafloa                                 0.0.   900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0    942.0
OUTFLOW
Insestmbnt                               237.0                                              29.0      16.9
lncr. working capital b/                           331.0       4.0
Operating expenditures                             662.7    670.5    670.5    670.5    670.5    670.5    670.5    670.5    670.5
--------------------------------------                 -      ----- - ---- 
Total  ittlo                               237.0    993.7    f74.5    670.5    670.5    699.5    687.3    670.5    670.5    610.5
Net Benefits                              1237.01   193.7)   225.5    229.5    2m9.5    200.5    212.7    229.5    229.5    271.5
Economic Rate of Return                     0.48
a/ Estimated at 152 of total investment
bl Equivalent to i      fof  the incremental operating expenditures



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULrURAL CREDIT ANlD EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Passion Fruit
(Constant 1987 S'040)
----------- Years--
1         2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9        10
INFLON                                                      ------  ------ ----  ----               -  ----
Value of sales                                         66.3    204.4    259.7    259.7    259.7    259.7    259.7    259.7    259.7
Residual value a/                                                                                                                          55.0
Total Inflow                                   0.0      U4.3    204.4    259.7    259.7    259.7    259.7    259.7    259.7    314.7
OUTFLOW
Investment                                  104.4      11.2       11.2       3.5        3.5      41.2        3.5       3.5        3.5       3.5 
Intr. marking capital bJ                               29.0       34.0      23.0        5.0
Operating expenditures                                  55.0      96.6     142.7    151.8    151.9         151.8     151.8    151.8       151.8
Total Outflow                                104.4       94.2     141.8      169.2    160.3    193.0    155.3    155.3    155.3    155.3
Net Benefits                                (104.41    p27.9)    62.6         90.5      n.4        66.7     104.4    104.4    104.4        159.4
Econooic Rate of Return                       0.44
aI Estimated at 151 of total investment
bI Eqaivalent to 601 of the incremental operating expenditures
- v 



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PRO(MOTION PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Passion Fruit 1/
(constant 187 1$ '001
1        2        3         4         5        6         7        a         9       10
INFLOV                                              -    -      -     --       -_       _
Value of sales                                     78.0    241.0    305.0.0 305.0        S.0    305.0    305.0    305.0    305.0
Residual value a.
Total Ir.flob                              0.0      78.0    241.0    305.0    305.0    305.0    305.0    305.0    305.0    305.0
OUTFLCi
Investment                             19.0      33.2      33.2      0.0       0.0     45.0      16.0     16.0      16.0      0.0
Incr. dorking capital ol                          33.0      26.0     28.0       9.0
Operating exp1nditures                            65.5    117.0    174.0    192.0    192.0    192.0    192.0    152.0    192.0                           1"
Total Outflow                             B99.0    131.7    176.2    202.0    201.0    237.0    208.0    208.0    200.0    192.0
Net Benefits                            (199.0)   (53.7)    64.8    103.0    104.0    68.0         97.0    n1.0       97.0    113.0
Financial Ra*e of Return       :          0.27
ai Estiuated at 15Z of total intestaemt
bi Eq4ivalent to 601 of the incrmental aperatinq expenditures
1/ Details in Project File



ANNEX   5
96 -                                       Table  17
ZIMBABWE
AGRICJLTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Financial Analysis:  Ginnery Cowponent(Z$'000)
1989    1990 1991-1993    1994 1995-1M      199  2000-2003    2004 2005-2006
INVESTHENTS                9374    8766         -     425         -     643         -      425         -
OPERATING EXPENDITURES        -    4321      54      5344      6280    6280 .   7892    7           7892
SEED COTTON PURCHASES         -   13404     18893   18893     24492  24492      34832   34832      34832
TOTAL COSTS                9374   26491     24237   24662     30M    31415    42724  43149         42724
LINT EXPORT SWLES             -   11044     14724   14724     19087   19087     27146   27146      2146
LINT LOCAL SALES              -    3462      4615    4615      5983    598        8509    8509      8509
SED SALES                     -    2815      3753    3753      465    465         6919    6919      6919
TOTAL REOENUE                 -   17321     23092  23092      29935   235    42574   42574         42574
NET REVENUE
NET REVENUE              -9374   -9170    -1145  -1570         -837  -1480        -150    -575     -150
October 3, 198 14:07
Internal Rate of Return ot Not Streass
NTOT             No Intemnal Rate o  Return Exists



ANNEX   5
97                                          Table 18
ZINDADVE
AGRICULTuRAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Ginnery Component (7$'nfln)
1989    190    1991    1m       1m      1994 1995-1M      199  2000-2003    2004 2005-2008
COSTS
iHNESTHENTS                9698    8968       -       -       -     SOS          -     736         -     505         -
OPERATING EXPENDITURES        -    4448    5605    6623   8503    8571        8571    8571      8571   8571       8571
SEED COTTON PURCHEASES        -   11630   16394   16394   16394   16394     21252   21252      30224   30224     30224
MOTAL COSTS                9688   25046   21999  23017   24897  25470        29823   30559     38795  39300      38795
REVEUE
LINT EXPORT SALES             -   12884   17178   17178   17178   17178      22268   22268     31671   31671     31671
LINT LOCAL SALES.                  4501    5999    5999    5999    5999       7778    7778     11062   11062     11062
SEE  SALES                    -    2815    3753    3753    3753    3753      4865    4865       6919    6919      6919
TOTAL RENENUE                 -   20200   26930   26930  26930  26930        34911   34911     49652  49652      49652
NET REVENO
NET R£NENUE               -9680  -4846    4931    3913   203'   1460          5098    4352     10857   10352     10857
October 3t 1988 12:50
Internal Rates ot Return ot Net Streags
H7OT                    26.77z



- 98 -
ANNEX 6
Page   1
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for In-depth Mid-tern, Review
Objective and Timing
1.       The objective of the mid-term review is to carry an in-depth study
of AFC so as to ensure that effective measures are taken to safeguard its
financial position while reducing dependence on budgetary funds, to improve
the capability of its manpower resources, and to place the group lending
pilot scheme at a sound footing before the scheme is expanded. To these
ends, the review would seek to determine the need for remedial measures,
identiff such measures, and make recommendations accordingly. The review
which would take place during July-August 1992 would be coordinated by the
World Bank with full participation from EEC, IFAD, AFC and MLARR.
Scope of the Review
2.       To ensure safeguarding AFC's financial conditions, the review
would:
(a) assess collection performance and the reduction of arrears
relative to the target of 152 of the total loan portfolio to
be achieved by the end of March 1992;
(b) if the achievements are significantly below the target: (i)
identify the factors accounting for the failure to achieve
the target; (ii) recommend measures to rectify the situation;
(c) assess the adequacy of interest rate spread and provisions
made for bad and doubtful debts and, if necjssary, recommend
the appropriate levels required;
(d) review the trends and prospects of generating net revenues
from lending to commercial farmers; and the progress made
towards enabling AFC to tap private funds from local sources;
3.       To ensure improvement of AFC manpower capability, the review
would:
(a) assess the impact of the training program as recommended by
the EEC financed training specialist, paying particular
attention to: the number of staff attending training courses
during the project period; levels of staff served by the
training program; the relevance of the courses relative to
job requirements; and adequacy of the training budget and
facilities relative to the total training needs;



ANNEX 6
99                              Page   2
(b)  determine the progress made towards making AFC's terms of
employment competitive relative tu those offered by other
financial institutions in the country; and evaluate the
impact on a staff turn-over.
4.       To ensure that the pilot group lending scheme is on a sound
footing before it is expanded, the review would:
(a) determine the performance of the participating groups with
regard to the amount of loans and other businesses handled by
the group, loan repayment rates, and membership size and
stability;
(b) assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the group training
program under the project, particularly as reflected by cost-
effectiveness of the services providea by the group to its
members in respect of credit, marketing and input supply;
(c) identify measures as may be necessary to improve the
performance of participating groups.
Review Output and Follow-up Actions
5.       The output of the review would consist of a brief report setting
out the main recommendations to be prepared, discussed and agreed with the
Government before the departure of the mid-term review mission, followed by
a detailed report. The review finding and recommendation would be
confirmed through a letter from the Bank to the Government together with a
action plan and timetable.



- 100 -
ANNEX 7
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Proiert File Papers
Paper No.  1   Terms of Reference for EEC's Technical and Consultant
Assistance to AFC
2   AFC Annual Report; 1988-89
3   CMB Annual Report; 1988-89
4  AFC Source and Application of Funds
5   CMB Source and Application of Funds
6   Zimbabwe Cotton Subsector
7   Zimbabwe Horticultural Subsector
8 Informal Farmer Groups in Zimbabwe
9   Role of Women in Zimbabwe Agriculture
10   Detailed Crop Budgets: Maize, Cotton, Tobacco, Soyabeans,
Groundnuts, and Sunflowers
11   Detailed Cost and Benefit Analysis: Smallholder  Poultry;
Vh.eat; Roses; Annual Flowers; and Passion Fruit
12   Detail Cost and Benefit Analysis: Cotton Ginning



ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL CRrDIT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
AFC ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE - HEAD OFFICE
|Minlstry of Lands. Agriculture. 
I  and Rural Resettlgement
|AFC Board
of Directors       rXR eaN 
General Manager
i Private Secretary
I-0
Chief Ecno;;in ;;   |    Colpsrate          |   Genetal Manager      Gr mcal Mstatta w          GenerslantMaar        Data Processing     General Manager      G eorall a
ary l 5 Wostom Region tt _j Eastem R  t   |   Ld^tstraton              Manager       l          Fuiarnce     Hum an Hesources
|     Senlr     l|                                   Sno                                         N                           I          SN         l
_ Mangagrment                                                                                 m  aaeet       wanagement    __         taagement       _
Secrelary                Secretary                                                         Secretary                               SecrWar1y
ElaW43137C|



'A". -                                                                                 IBRD    15907R
28'                                  30'                                  32'               MARCH 1993
ANGOLA  ,t~'J , 1        heaos'\ tZIMBABWE
r                         /                                                        LAND CLASSIFICATION
L     >  t '
16'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
j..  wt   "y SIT.  ...'                                                                                     t
Th@NI40   eNn At.  O ewIned UhnON a-. n ire cef  o                                                              N. t '
Poncecneee Te tenhiee -hTn oed on liTe OoZeh sOos TOi Into moo doCZ noAStW  nbj l   .  .1                                  -$ 
' -   t''s'>   \                              SCS~~~~~~k' '..
; ;8/{ios   |       >    X     ~     ~~~~~~ C(inihoyl  Biner.0o    O;hO                    ,
N. w  l~-.
NAM S l                                                                                                         HASI
_ .  . ..  .'O.  v                           4      X           <                 ' .,>J  t  T~~~~~~ M  .do,
Commu~Pnclnring   Aend    \         ; j    ; i    <l                          *                                 4             M vneeo            20'S 
O Kedolif8 
20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:4   Solon Aroos                               *) <                   ~          e          ~     .           J    
A OT   ronWA o ResorRds end Gordonf j                                                                        V
[11 ] Cneciol F       ag    Ote Lend
F.   - Rrer ..                                         <             )?/ o
--       Innernnanonol Boundonios         |          \S->Evl                      Xr  
KILOME1ORSi                        5                   BOTSWA NA   '1"_~  _b tbrwdg.roe o2-
N.t.-I ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ,                                           -'PrMOZk                      BIQ 
0       so 20                                                                                                                               2200
r     SOUTH AFRICA
26'                                20'                                 30I'                     \         32



I BR D 17028
25        i        s- Z I M B A  B WE E5                                                   29      -                                                                                       MAR09 13
is'                     NATURAL REGIONS                                                            f                     ,.
-    Mo1ar Roads
L1 Specialized and Diversified      -    Secondory Roads
Frming Region               -c--Railways
W-Pl 1ntensive Forming Region
JItensive Farming Region                               * Major Cities
S        - intensive Farming Region         i r S                                                                                 
~]Semi-intensive Farming Region  --ItrainlBndie
!  .;;               ,                           1~~~~~~~~~Itentinl Boun,\dories 
EVi  E.tensive Forming Region                                      J,
I,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a'9            -                                                                                                                                                                                             9-is
. fsouTH   2 Oceon              M{tE5                                        L          /                                  2                                            22-~~~~~~~~. r
26-
ArvcA cv 'cc scc,m.c.2r                                                                                                                                                                                  2M
20' cc. ccccccn.cvc vancccvcccro  -9   _~n( c7-                                2,5/rt2r                       5 ° U T H               R I C                             32-                   3,3-
cad As's Wc,cc Oa0 ccc - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~6022
25'                   2i'                        1-~~~~~~~~~~2,'  '                     0(  -                                                                                       o



