Page  1
December 21, 1992
Senior Secretary Elisha Mushayakarara
Ministry of Finance
Republic of Zimbabwe
Dear Senior Secretary:
1.   Reference is made to Loan Agreement number 3063-O-ZIM
(Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project) dated January 31,
1990 between Zimbabwe (the Borrower) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).
2.   Reference is also made to discussions between our respective
staff on the agricultural inputs required for the smallholder
farmers to assist in recovery from the drought, the letter from the
Bank's resident mission dated November 11, 1992, and your letter of
November 23, 1992.  We hereby propose that the amount outstanding
under the above-mentioned Loan be used for the purposes of financing
the procurement of such inputs estimated to cost US$3.9 million.
Accordingly, we propose the following amendments to the Loan
Agreement:
     a.   The table in Schedule I to the Loan Agreement is amended
     by the inclusion of a new Category (5) and the renumbering of
     the present Category (5) as Category 6:
     "(5) Agricultural Inputs
          including fertilizer,        3,900,000       100%"
          seeds, animal feedback
          and construction materials
     b.   Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
     Loan Agreement is hereby amended by the addition of a new
     paragraph 3 which would read as follows:
     "3. Acquisition of agricultural inputs, including fertilizer,
     seeds, animal feedstock, and construction materials to assist
     Smallholder Farmers to recover from the effects of the recent
     drought"
3.   If you agree with the foregoing, please sign both originals of
the enclosed confirmation form to affirm your agreement to the
foregoing amendments, return one original to us, and retain the
second original, whereupon this letter shall be deemed as an
amendment to the Loan Agreement as of the date of your signature.
Yours sincerely,
Stephen M. Denning
Director
Southern Africa Department
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
By:
     Authorized Representative
Date:  February 2, 1993
Page  2
