Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
<Date> 
Report No.:  AB6429 
(The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)
 
Operation Name 
VN-Public Investment Reform 2 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Country 
Vietnam 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Operation ID 
P120946 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
HE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
Date PID Prepared 
March 2, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
February 15, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 21, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
Other Decision 
{Optional}
Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no 
other decisions are added
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
{This section should describe the country and sector background}
 
II. Operation 
Objectives 
{
This section should describe the operation, including a clear, succinct statement of development 
objectives. It discusses the expected benefits of the proposed operation, expected results, and 
linkages to the Government’s program.  A description of the prior actions should also be 
included in this section.
}
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
{
This section might consider whether there has been good progress on important institutional 
and structural reforms. Highlight specific measures taken by the government and supported by 
this proposed operation.  Note recent macroeconomic performance and poverty reduction efforts, 
if supported by sustainable policies. Also note whether a broad consensus has developed in the 
country to maintain sound fundamental macroeconomic and poverty reduction policies in the 
medium- and long-run.  Describe mutually supporting efforts by the IMF, regional development 
bank lending, or bilateral assistance, if important
.} 
 
IV. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
250 
International Development Association (IDA) 
100 
Page  2
Borrower/Recipient  
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
 
Total  
 
V. Tranches
 (if applicable)
 
($m.) 
First Tranche 
 
Second Tranche 
 
Etc.  
 
Total  
 
VI. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
{This section should briefly describe the co
untry’s arrangements for monitoring the 
implementation of the program supported by the proposed operation and evaluating results. It 
should list the implementing agency that will be responsible for overall implementation of the 
proposed operation and for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned 
ministries and agencies. 
 
It should also discuss how Bank staff will monitor actions and review progress of the 
implementation of the proposed operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the Government’s 
program. In particular, this paragraph could mention that Bank staff will focus on monitoring 
progress towards the expected results of the program, and briefly describe existing or proposed 
Bank activities to strengthen the Government’s M&E systems, as warranted. } 
 
VII. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
 
{This section should discuss the risks that the proposed operation faces.  For each risk, 
government policy statements and actions aimed at mitigation should be highlighted. This section 
should also note how actions by the Bank, including under the proposed operation, the presence 
of an IMF program, and/or actions of others donors reduce the risks. In addition, it should be 
noted how the risks are, on balance, offset by the expected benefits of the proposed operation}
 
VIII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
{The Bank determines whether specific country policies supported by the operation are likely to 
have significant poverty and social consequences, especially on poor people and vulnerable 
groups. For country policies with likely significant effects, this section should discuss any 
relevant analytic knowledge of these effects and of the borrower’s systems for reducing adverse 
effects and enhancing positive effects associated with the specific policies being supported.}
 
Environment Aspects  
{The Bank determines whether specific country policies supported by the operation are likely to 
Page  3
cause significant effects on the country’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. For 
country policies with likely significant effects, this section should discuss any relevant relevant 
country-level or sectoral environmental analysis of the borrower’s systems for reducing such 
adverse effects and enhancing positive effects.} 
 
IX. Contact 
point 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Deepak K. Mishra 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5777+334 / 251-11-517-6034 
Fax:  
Email: Dmishra@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
 
Borrower 
Contact:  
 
Title:  
 
Tel: 
   
Email:  
 
 
X. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
